ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u1	The next item is the Amendment of the Environmental Law and some other laws due to inclusion in the Environmental Law of rules on the establishment of a preferential right, rules on expropriation, special rules for the establishment of areas and, in view of different types of area developments, further adaptation of the rules on cost story. It's the Supplementary Land Property Act, 35133. A whole mouthful. I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for the Interior. He replaces the minister who is absent due to illness. I would like to welcome Members of Parliament, as well as the people in the public gallery and the viewers at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u2	First of all, I give the floor to Mrs Regterschot. It's her maiden speech today. We have here the informal rule that she should not be interrupted. That's the only time it's not allowed. I'd say enjoy it. I think it should feel very good that almost the entire gallery is full behind you. That's very nice. At least the VVD is very excited about it. You have the floor. You can open it today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is a special moment. Here I am, in the middle of the national political arena. I wouldn't have thought of this myself until two years ago. We write 1994, the end of my high school days, when a classmate of mine predicted a future in politics. By the way, that prophecy wasn't completely crazy. I always had an opinion about things that were in society. And in forming that opinion, it became increasingly clear to me that it was often liberal in nature. Yet at the start of my study time I was not looking for a stage to vent my opinion, let alone think about going into politics later. I studied in both Nijmegen and Utrecht. I joined a female fraternity. I went to work and live in The Hague and then back to work in Roermond, after I moved back to Limburg with my family. There and then I came into contact with politics, to understand provincial politics. A few years later I started working in my own municipality of Landgraaf as an alderman. And who did I run into in my work again? Indeed, that same classmate back then, he now also in the role of alderman, but then in the municipality of Heerlen. Exactly after twenty years he had been right: I had ended up in that politics, as he had predicted. Mr. Chairman. Politics brings you great moments and sometimes also great pieces of clothing. I've already experienced that. But being able to express your opinion on that stage and entering into the debate about it is absolutely a privilege, and ultimately the wonderful consequence of the choices I have made. Politics for me is working together towards the right compromise, to get things done that most people in the Netherlands can move forward with. Sharing views, however diverse, is necessary to understand society and to make the best of it all. I will always be committed to this, as I have done in the past. You can still be so convinced of your right, but that doesn't always mean you can get your own way. It is precisely politics that is a matter of giving and taking. And luckily, it's often no different than home. For me at home is Limburg, but just as well The Hague. I'll be back after a few years of absence, now as a representative of the people. I enjoy the hectic of the city here, as I can enjoy the peace there. There and here I feel at home. In Limburg: doa en heij veul ich mich heim. An important compromise for myself, for which my family and my family give me the space. For me this way the bronze-green oak of Limburg comes together with that beautiful city behind the dunes, here in The Hague, so I can get the best out of myself. Mr. Chairman. However nice it is that I have today my maiden speech, coupled with a debate on one of the most fundamental rights of people in the Netherlands, namely the right to property. It is an essential subject, given that in March 1977 the Den Uyl cabinet fell over it. For me personally, as a social geographer and, as I said, former alderman in the physical domain, it is an essential subject. Today we are talking about the Supplementary Land Property Act. It's going to be incorporated into the Environment Act. This Supplementary Act adds rules for instruments that intervene on the property of the land. Land is a scarce commodity, especially in the Netherlands. Our land is relatively small in surface area, but very densely populated. About every square centimeter in the Netherlands is provided with a destination. This offers opportunities, but it also imposes restrictions on owners and users. Scissors of the ground influence the price, because that is how the law of supply and demand works. Instruments within this Supplementary Act can be used to develop and/or stimulate initiatives, but the position of the owner must not be overlooked. The Environment Act aims to simplify and, where possible, speed up legislation and regulations in the field of spatial planning. This goal fits perfectly in the line of the VVD. The Land Property Supplement Act, which is now in force, scores well on various parts. With regard to the expropriation section, the VVD Group considers that the new regime has become more readable and therefore more understandable. In our view, speeding up proceedings through the administrative courts is an improvement. The "land layout" instrument is used to set up areas. This includes instruments such as "voluntary lot exchange" and "relocation." The VVD lacks in this part of the law the possibility of a hybrid variant, namely the one where the possibility is created to start with a journey of voluntary lot exchange, whereby, if for certain reasons a more binding journey would be required, the more directing variant of landing could be transferred. Can the Secretary of State indicate his views on this variant? Can he also explain why this variant is not included in the law? The VVD very much welcomes the two added possibilities in the law on the one hand the urban lot exchange and on the other hand the possibility of lot exchange between rural and urban areas. A mandatory variant of urban lot swap certainly does not prefer the VVD. That is why we are pleased that it has not been incorporated into the law. In the eyes of the VVD, this would create a far too large intervention in property law. I would, however, like to draw the attention of the Secretary of State to the fact that lot swap can lead to an infringement of the landscape. It is important for the VVD to minimize the disturbance of the landscape and to be aware of this in the use of these instruments. Can the Secretary of State indicate whether he sees possibilities to secure this wish of the VVD in the drafting of the law? For area development, municipalities incur costs. It is justified not to charge the costs to the general budget, but to recover them from developers. The rules laid down for this purpose in the law must be suitable for all types of territorial declarations. In the eyes of the VVD, the proposed scheme offers more flexibility and space for customization. With regard to the skimming of the planning benefits, by voting against the Nijboer motion, the VVD has sent out a clear signal. Finally, the system of preferential rights. The group is satisfied with the new exception in the law on the obligation to offer because of the possibility of self-realization. This allows a current owner to sell the land to a party other than the government, when he can demonstrate that the new owner will carry out the newly provided function himself. However, the VVD is much less pleased with the ten-year deadline in the case of the establishment of a right of preference on the basis of an environmental plan. Ten years in succession is a long period of time to impose the right of preference on an owner. A government must therefore be aware of this. The VVD proposes a five-year period, with the possibility of extending that period for another five-year period. According to the VVD, this will include a natural moment of review in that long period of ten years: a moment of awareness of the established right of preference and a consideration for the government body whether it is still necessary to impose that right. If the government still needs a total of 10 years, this will form the basis for a new decision when reviewing the extension. If not, the right of preference may expire after five years. In this way the intention of ten years is maintained, but there is also a stick behind the door for governments to raise awareness and not unnecessarily burden an owner with the established right of preference. I have already added the deed to the floor and tabled an amendment on the five-plus-five-year period. Mr. Chairman. This brings me to the end of my first term, but not until I have thanked my fellow speakers for letting me speak today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u4	Thank you, and congratulations on your maiden speech. I will suspend the sitting for a single moment so that you can receive the congratulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u5	After this beautiful maiden speech, I would like to give the floor to Mr Van Gerven of the SP. Since it's a legal treatment, I don't want to be too strict with the number of interruptions, but keep them brief. I think everyone will benefit sufficiently from that. I call Mr Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u6	Mr. Chairman. I have listened with pleasure to Mrs Regterschot's contribution. I noticed she was talking about Limburg in her speech. Of course, if you were born there, it has to be about that; it has to be. But she also said that we are working towards a common compromise. It turned out to be that she also loves The Hague. Both The Hague and Limburg are great. That is already quite a compromise, because I do not know whether everyone in both The Hague and Limburg is of that opinion, but well, that aside. I also noticed that she wasn't very nervous here after all. So she has already gained the necessary experience in speaking in the political domain, so to speak. Finally, I also noticed the real VVD in her, when she spoke threatening words about a motion by Member Nijboer, against which the VVD had voted. In any case, this is also a precondition for the debate. I'm sure this debate will work out, so good luck. Then the Environment Act, which we're talking about tonight. It is clear that the introduction of that law is going to change a lot. This is also the case in the treatment of the Supplementary Land Property Act. At the heart of the debate is the question of whether the general interest is properly safeguarded in this liberalisation law. I see that the SP is not alone in this, because the CDA, for example, has some questions about this. Does the local government have sufficient instruments to ensure that what is considered desirable is done? We see what can happen or what happens if the direction of the government goes away. I'm just taking a field trip to health care. We see hospitals go bankrupt and there are health cowboys that are draining care. Land and real estate are also important interests. In doing so, profit maximization is a poisonous drug which is or may be at stake in the general interest. As an example, the development of wind farms in the Netherlands. On the one hand, we see that developers and farmers make or can make money using government subsidies, but on the other hand, we are faced with a polluted landscape and health and welfare damage for citizens and government. Private the lusts and collective the burdens: that is not what the SP wants. That is what we must avoid. There is also a huge shortage of affordable rental and purchase homes. What happens if we give the private initiative a job? Then this social task can get in the way, because the cheaper a home is, the less the chance of profitability and profit maximization. When it comes to the organisation of our country, the government plays a crucial role as a democratically legitimised body. The development of the main ecological structure is a good example of this. We had a long-standing vision with the necessary finances to realize that main ecological structure with its connecting zones, until wrecker Bleker came, supported by the dramatic alliance in the form of a VVD/CDA cabinet with tolerance from the PVV. That meant the end of that ecological main structure with its beautiful connecting zones, hundreds of millions of cuts and road nationwide vision. Now we are more or less at the mercy of what the provinces want and how rich these are. Do you remember the 2008 sketch of the Oostvaarderswold? I quote an interview with project leader Van der Werff. "In about ten years the Horsterwold will be a much busier visited nature and recreation area. With a lot of "do-nature." Van der Werff knows this because in Flevoland he is the leader of the most ambitious nature project in the Netherlands, the Oostvaarders Wold. With the construction of this 'ecological connection zone' between the Oostvaardersplassen and the Horsterwold, one of the largest contiguous nature areas in the Netherlands should be created (15,000 ha). Work title for that area: Oostvaardersland.' Nothing has come of it, once again, thanks to that disastrous Rutte I cabinet. I outline this to show how important it is to have a vision, to continue it for a long time and to have a powerful toolbox and a strong government to realize it. That is what we have in mind with this law. How can we realize what we all think is important? This is particularly important because we live in a country that is extremely densely populated. So everything you do has almost immediate consequences for your neighbor. This law attaches great importance to selfrealization and the good will of the landowner or landowner. project developer. The municipalities, which ultimately deal with land issues, have a major influence on what a landowner can do and what a project developer can build. But is it going to stay that way? That is the question, since self-realization by the landowner is so pregnantly paramount. What agreements can the municipality still make if much is promised, but little is done by the landowner? I would like to hear a response from the Secretary of State. What binding measures can municipalities take to ensure that we do not have to deal with land that could have been set aside for a long time where homes could have been or where nature could have been developed? That expropriation remains possible under this supplementary law is a good thing for my group, but with an appeal to self-realization without clear obligations, the SP still fears that there is insufficient incentive or coercion to actually implement the proposed plans. I would like to thank Mr Smeulders for the amendment he has tabled, which, after a period of three years, makes it possible to establish a right of preference for expropriation. I myself have chosen another route and tabled an amendment which, with a penalty payment, provides an incentive for a landowner who does not move on to self-realization in time. I think that this way we can prevent self-realization from becoming synonymous with empty land or empty, crumpled buildings while we are in the middle of a housing crisis. Another subject, not insignificant though, is the social purchase. In response to questions in the written round, prior to this debate, about the disappearance of this housing category from the legislation, the Secretary of State replied that an investigation is being carried out into the use of this category and the need for it in municipalities. I also understand that the system of social buying does not always work well. I would ask the Secretary of State whether, if that were to be the case, he would come up with an alternative in order to make it possible, as it were, to design a new system that would enable it to do so. We now sometimes see rows of houses going over the counter for around 1 million. If we look at this reality, we must note that this cannot be the intention. Those who buy such a terraced house don't just do that and we have to avoid that. The question is how we can give the young buyers who do not have that much money a chance. If such a speculator has bought a property, he might rent it for, for example, €1,500 to young families. I think that's something we all don't want. A way of making it possible for these young people to bribe is urgently needed. What will the Secretary of State do in this regard? Then there's another point. The Secretary of State would like to congratulate him on the possibility of private law contributing to future spatial developments, as called in spatial planning terminology. I understand that this is about nature or social services for new neighbourhoods, but also about contributions. I want to know if that is true to increase the share of social rent in a new residential area. In my view, such a system ensures that the burden on this type of spatial project does not just end up with the community. After all, the developers also earn a lot of money from the construction of new residential areas. I attach great importance to the fact that they also make a fair contribution. The organization for project developers has called on this committee to do so. I would almost say that it must be a good law if they're hopping, but I don't know if everyone shares that thought. I've also been in touch with municipalities. They see this private-law method as a good addition, but they do not really have a public-law possibility of enforcing the so-called settlement contribution. That again amounts to the degree of enforceability. Hence my amendment in this area, to ensure that there is real money in a fund for future spatial developments. That's it in the first term, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u7	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Ronnes of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u8	Mr. Chairman. First of all, congratulations to Mr Regterschot on her maiden speech. It's always nice to hear someone's motivation to be active as a popular representative. Congratulations. Mr. Chairman. I'll start with my input. The new system of environmental law is becoming more and more formal. In recent years, step by step, we have completed the Environmental Act with parts. Now we're going to deal with the Supplementary Land Property Act. That's an important supplement to the law, because it's about property. The regulation of ownership is one of the most fundamental elements of our social order, because it determines economic relations. My input will focus on three parts, namely expropriation, right of preference and the cost story. First of all, the expropriation. The government can infringe property rights by expropriating. It should be clear that this is not an easy matter. In summary, expropriation can only take place if it is necessary in the public interest, if friendly settlement does not go and if the owner cannot realize it himself. The Environment and Infrastructure Council points out to us that there is no sanction if an owner resorts to self-realization, so expropriation is not possible, but then does not succeed. It would be desirable, however, that the municipality should be able to make an accelerated expropriation. The Minister, represented here by the Secretary of State, agrees with us, as she has indicated. But what is the expectation that this procedure will also be carried out more quickly in practice? Can the Secretary of State respond to this? Then I come to the three points of criticism of the Council of State: the choice of legal protection for the administrative judge in two bodies, the method of review by the administrative judge of the expropriation decision and the appointment of third parties. First of all, the legal protection of the administrative courts in two bodies. The government is carrying out my motion with the VVD, which asked to ensure that under future rules on expropriation the position and protection of the owner would at least remain equivalent to the current situation and, where possible, strengthened. This motion carries out the government neatly, and I think that's the way it should be. I appreciate that there is even an improvement in the position of the owner. By providing legal protection in two bodies against the expropriation decision, legal protection improves compared to the current law, because, unlike the civil court, in the current situation in the proposed procedure, the administrative court automatically assesses whether the requirements for expropriation have been met. We therefore support the government in its own way in relation to the opinion of the Council of State. On the second point of criticism of the Council of State, we would like a different explanation. The Council of State advises to include in the legislative proposal how the administrative judge should review the expropriation decision. Despite these critical questions, the government reiterates that the judge has the power to even determine a review moment and consider changes. Can the Secretary of State state state state why it does not want to go along with the Council of State's opinion? What are the objections to the inclusion of the manner in which the administrative judge is to review the expropriation decision? Finally, the Council of State states that the current Expropriation Act provides for the possibility of proceeding against a third party appointed by the court to represent the interests of the owner if the owner has died or lives abroad. That is the so-called third party designation. This bill does not know this possibility. I would also like to give a more detailed explanation here, because in the compensation procedure it is possible under the new scheme to appoint a third party. That is why we find it remarkable that the cabinet does not want to do so when it comes to the review of the expropriation decision by the administrative judge. Then I come to the second part, the right of preference. We have previously asked questions about the period within which a right of preference cannot be established again. According to the current plans, it will be three years; now it will be two years. The motivation of the cabinet is that a property should not remain in charge of a preferential right for longer than necessary. For this reason, in the view of improving the protection of the owner, the period within which re-confirmation cannot take place under the same decision has been extended. The cabinet stands up for the landowner. Is there a reason for that? Have there been any problems in this area in recent years? And what kind of problem is this going to solve? Around the right of preference we do see another problem, and that is that after the destruction of the environmental plan, the right of preference still applies for one year, so that the plan can be restored in the meantime. This time limit is sometimes too short in practice, because sometimes additional research needs to be carried out by the municipality or province. A municipality or province must put all sails in order to have a new environmental plan all around in one year. It is often a matter of major interests in which the municipality quite rightly wants to acquire certain land because of public interests. If this is not possible due to time pressure, then the municipality is at the mercy of the project developers who generally have a different interest in the project. Our group therefore believes that it could be two years. The municipality will be given the opportunity to correct any deficiencies found and to make a proper decision. We agree with the cabinet that the impact of an incorrect decision by the government on third parties should be as limited as possible. We would like to present a compromise to the Secretary of State. Is it conceivable that the one-year period should be included in the law, but that in exceptional cases the Administrative Court of the Council of State could extend that period to two years? I'd like a response. We were very surprised to read that the government wants the municipality to decide that the right of preference does not apply when an owner is able to realize the desired function himself. We are convinced that in this way the municipality will be taken out of its hands an instrument to speed up housing, for example, and to act against owners who act against the social interest and only serve their own interests. The Premier Law Act was established at the time in order to allow the municipality to clearly direct developments in the area and to prevent speculation and freerider behaviour. The government now wants the land owners to be able to rely on self-realization rather easily. This could interfere with the municipal and, by the way, the provincial development strategy. In this way, the municipality is forced into a facilitating role. That can't be the intention. Moreover, this regulation has not been applied in a policy-neutral way, whereas the starting point was actually that we would move the regulation politically neutrally to the new legislation. Can the Secretary of State confirm that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u9	There is an interruption by Mr Smeulders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u10	I welcome this plea by Mr Ronnes of the CDA. I have also tabled an amendment on this point. Are you going to support this amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u11	You feel what we want to go to. We want to put the position of the local government so that it can take control if necessary. That is why I ask the Secretary of State again whether my conclusion on how it is now in the law is correct. If that is the case, I would certainly consider looking at your amendment. But I haven't gone through that in detail yet, so I can't give a final conclusion on that yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u12	The amendment is very simple. It deletes the exception that the cabinet adds. With this we arrange that someone does not act under the guise of self-realization in a manner of speaking and serves his personal interest and not the social interest. But I welcome Mr Ronnes' reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u13	But it may also be a middle way if you say: we put that municipality in position and we give that developer a chance ourselves, but at very strict conditions. I hope to hear from the Secretary of State how they see it. "Sanction" may not be the right word, but what could the Secretary of State think is the moment when the municipality can just take it back?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u14	Mr Smeulders, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u15	One more comment on that. I read it in a way that it's just some kind of free pass for project developers. If Mr Ronnes shares that view, I would be delighted if he would vote in favour of the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u16	I did think that was the message. Mr Ronnes is going to think about it. I give the floor to Mrs Van Eijs to intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u17	Mr Ronnes is asking questions about the possibility of self-realization, but I am wondering the following. A landowner is immediately put away as a project developer, but it can also be an individual with land that has been owned for generations. Does Mr Ronnes see the added value that this landowner also gets a chance at his own pace to simply realize the same thing the municipality has in mind and described in the environmental plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u18	In this question you actually describe the struggle that we are going through: how can you make an arrangement that doesn't give you the complete free hand so that as a government you can take back the direction, but with which you also give enough space to the individuals and the project developers who can? That is why I asked the Secretary of State once again: explain how this self-realization is meant and how this self-realization can be stopped if it simply doesn't get there at all? How are we going to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u19	I share that concern, because in the end, of course, you just want the social goal described in the environmental plan to be achieved. However, the municipality may have the freedom to define very strictly in one situation what it wants to see of that owner and to give more room for its own initiative in another situation, because we in the Netherlands, of course, have enough of that at the bottom.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u20	I can only answer yes to that. But still the question remains: when can you intervene again if what you expected would not happen? Mr. Chairman. I will continue my speech. If the municipality decides not to allow the exception to the obligation to offer self-realisation, interested parties may object to it and appeal and appeal. The government does not expect this legal protection to lead to major delays and financial damage. I think that's amazing, because landowners will take their position anyway. The key question is, why are you doing this? Why does the government want to give municipalities a bad starting position in relation to the landowners? What kind of problem does the government want to solve here? Then I come to the final part of my speech: the cost story. We believe that, in this new legislation too, municipalities should have the opportunity to settle suburbs, so as to be able to recover some of the costs incurred by the municipality outside the new construction project. We want the profits made by developers to be good. Of course, the developer can have his fair share, because he is also at risk. But he often has to invest a lot for it and sometimes gets things done that the municipalities concerned wouldn't get. Many municipalities simply need project developers, but what we don't want is for project developers to collect large profits and leave the municipalities behind with the bills of public costs. Agreements will therefore have to be made between municipalities and developers. As far as we are concerned, this can be done both in the form of a private law agreement and with a public law loophole. In our view, private law alone is insufficient. On the contrary, municipalities have an explicit need for the public law regime, which can serve as a safety net and back-up in the event that an agreement is not reached. The CDA has tabled an amendment on this subject, together with a number of parties. With this amendment, I want to ensure that the cost story of spatial development is such that the costs are in any case functionally related to the intended spatial developments. Competent authorities, as a rule municipalities, but also provinces and water authorities, should be given the legal capacity to enforce contributions by public law in specific and exceptional situations. For example, qualitative improvement of the landscape, nature, water, the construction and adaptation of roads, the construction of a park or a recreation area, the realisation of social housing outside the planning area if less social housing is achieved within the planning area than is considered desirable under municipal policy, a contribution to demolition of housing if, for example, due to shrinkage or demolition of obsolete stables when creating new stables elsewhere in the competent authority. I'm finishing up, Mr. Chairman. I made it clear in the explanatory statement to the amendment that the benefits should not be unlimited. Municipalities, provinces or water boards should not sit back and be able to grab away the entire profits of the project developer. We need the developers very much to build the necessary homes, which in the Netherlands are very short of them. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This was my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ronnes. Then I give the floor to Mr Nijboer of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Stand by as Secretary of State: replace the Minister in the treatment of a not too simple law, an introduction law. Fortunately, at the start of this debate he was treated to a maiden speech by someone from his beloved Limburg. Once again, the Secretary of State clearly enjoys the fact that also people from his region are MPs and represent the people. I'd like to wish Mrs Regterschot Grunn foul pleoper in the work. If it's a bitch for once, head her fucking ass off! As you know, Mr President, I am pleased that we are represented here from all regions. As far as I'm concerned, that can never be too much. Good luck to you. Thanks for the lovely maiden speech. Mr. Chairman. I have signed one amendment. Mr Ronnes has just explained this in his last block. I'll be happy to join you on that. It is about giving municipalities the opportunity to recover costs in projects. I agree. Mr. Chairman. I would like to highlight three main points in this debate. This is a bit of an introduction law. It's all very complicated. All kinds of laws are merged, a few titles are changed and I don't know what. But fundamental changes aren't really worked out in this law. I would, however, like to propose and draw attention to three fundamental changes concerning land and land policy. First of all, if there's planning damage, people get compensation. If something is being built or something is being allowed that people don't expect, it will be reimbursed. I think that's reasonable, too. If there are planning benefits, they are always for the private owner, whether that's a farmer or a speculator. The question is to what extent that is reasonable. Should we not come up with a system in which, for example, when we make agricultural land, we use a part of it for the collective, for collective provision, for which prices are fivefold, tenfold or twentyfold, or perhaps even more, and which also gives a little profit to society? That is a very fundamental question. I have tabled a motion on planning; Mrs Regterschot has already mentioned it. It's working out now. But of course it would have been the best thing if this law had already proposed it. I therefore call on the cabinet to come forward quickly with this motion and to put forward proposals for it. Is it willing to do that? And when can the Chamber see that? Mr. Chairman. That's one side of the private profits that can be made on land ownership. Another side is that value can rise very much partly due to public investment. The best known example is of course a large station nearby; therefore you can see real value increases of 30% or 40%. But it can also be because you own areas around which much happens, which makes them more interesting, also for speculators. It's not that easy to roam that audience; I'll give it to you immediately. But if a lot of public investment has been made somewhere to achieve something, to make a city liveable or to make a country or an area more beautiful, that can be anything, for example the construction of nature or good connections............................................................................................................................................................ I'm asking the Cabinet to go into that. I do know to what extent that is now being achieved. The answer to that question is nothing. But wouldn't it be good if it could? Shouldn't there be more of this? Wouldn't that be a good thing if you looked fundamentally at the ground and ground politics? Mr. Chairman. My third and final point is about self-realization. That's a great right. If you own land, you can build a house on it yourself if you have a permit to do so. But the trouble is, you can take it all up until the end of the day. And there is a need for housing; Mr. Ronnes pointed that out. In Groningen, where I live, I also know places where entire fields intended for the expansion of the city were at least ten, perhaps twelve years of forced entry. These fields were owned by the Twente builders, a large company. That wanted to build, but also wanted to make as much money as possible. Those fields were just barren. The whole town had to build around it. It didn't look good. Everyone had to move on. It was nothing. And the government was pretty much left-handed; that was a good thing to do. It couldn't be helped, except for the set-aside. So shouldn't you also link a building obligation to such a self-realization right? You may do it yourself. I have already seen this in Mr Van Gerven's amendment, if I have understood correctly. It said, "It has to be in two years." You can always talk about the term; maybe that can be three years. But shouldn't you, if you have that right and say "I'm using it," at some point be obliged to do something with it? Otherwise, where is the leadership of the congregation, of our elected representatives, in solving social problems?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u23	Were you at the end of your input?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u24	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u25	I don't want to interrupt you, but then this is a fine natural point for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u26	I'm at the end. The point was made.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u27	Okay. Then there is an interruption by Mr Ronnes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u28	I understand Mr Nijboer's last appeal, that there must be an instrument that you can force. Of course, there may also be reasons why owners simply cannot develop. For example, this could be a financial situation. But governments already have the power to take destinations and use them elsewhere, so that they can create housing elsewhere, or start expropriation procedures?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u29	Yes, of course they do. You can do it elsewhere, but this is certainly true now, because 1 million houses need to be added. You know the problems as well as I do or better than I do. In Groningen there is a little more space, but in Utrecht, Amsterdam and many other cities it is quite difficult to find places. Those grounds are partly in the hands of speculators who want the top prize for that. You give it the power when you actually say: "You may want it as a municipality, but then you will build it somewhere else." And that's quite apart from what it means for a residential area, for the quality of living of a city, for the infrastructure facilities and for the support for shops and schools if you have meadows full of which you don't do anything about. I think that's undesirable. Of course there are instruments to work around it, but I would like to say: if you have a big lot there and if you have a hundred houses on it, go and do it; you have the right, but if you don't do it, then it will stop. That's my proposal. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u30	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Smeulders van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I too would like to begin by congratulating Mrs Regterschot, who has just given her maiden speech on behalf of the VVD Group. Welcome to the Chamber and welcome to this committee. I am delighted that we as Southerners now have the majority. Welcome to the Brabant block: four Brabanders, a Limburger and a Limburg Secretary of State. We can all make revolutionary decisions together tonight, I think. Welcome here. I'm really looking forward to working together. "Simple better" was and is the slogan of the Environment Act. The idea was that many laws and regulations would be transposed in a clear way into one new law and that this would make it better and simpler for governments, businesses and residents. Who's against that, anyway? But now that we have just over a year to go until the introduction of the Environment Act on 1 January 2021, it is only a question of whether it will all become easier. I have, of course, spoken to many experts in the last week, even in the run-up to this debate. To be quite honest, they also indicate that in their view it is very much the question of whether it really is going to be simpler. On the one hand, I get that, because there's gonna be a new system. Everyone's used to the old system. So you have to get used to the new system, but I found it amazingly "shocky" is such a big term that a number of experts really said that they don't actually see the forest anymore, with all these new rules. What should that be like for citizens or businesses, who are not involved in this matter on a daily basis? I would like to have a reflection from the Secretary of State on that. I understand that this is not entirely fair, because the Minister is responsible and the Secretary of State is replacing her, but I have every confidence in his knowledge and ability to answer that, including with official support. So it would be simpler and, in our view, the question is whether it will succeed, but it would also get better. I have also indicated in previous debates that we as GroenLinks have never been convinced that it is really getting better with the Environment Act. We see this primarily as a deregulation operation: fewer rules, more room for entrepreneurs, more private interest and less public interest. Unfortunately, the legislative proposal before us today contains a number of examples of this. It would indeed be applied politically neutrally, as Mr Ronnes of the CDA pointed out, but that is not entirely the case with today's law. So we have tabled a number of amendments, seven no less. I'll explain it later. I have been diligent and have done a lot of political handiwork to make this law better. Mr. Chairman. I would not want to become cynical or negative, but I really wonder to what extent it would be wise to introduce this law on 1 January 2021. I would also like to ask the Secretary of State for a reflection on that position, and I also ask him if this is feasible. So the one point is more The other point is whether this is still feasible. Is that date going to be met, with everything else that's gonna happen? Then there is the specific bill that is now before us. I have one question and then I will explain the amendments. My question is actually very simple. There is often a political discussion about whether or not to expropriate for nature development. As GroenLinks, we are in favour of this. In the past, the majority of the Chamber was not, only we are now dealing with the PAS statement. As a result, the whole of the Netherlands, or almost the whole of the Netherlands, is flat. This also applies to all construction projects and therefore to the construction projects that we, as GroenLinks, strongly support. I think the conclusion of that PAS statement is that we need to take better care of nature. In order to be able to take steps in this respect, it seems to us that it would be logical to consider whether this expropriation instrument should be used more for nature development. Could the Secretary of State respond to the question of whether it would be appropriate to make that possible immediately in this law? Then I come to the amendments that we have tabled. I walk them down in the order of the numbers. The first amendment is the amendment to item No. 9, on not re-establishing a preferential right within two years. The cabinet proposes that the period within which a right of preference cannot be reestablished should be three years. The deadline is now two years. We simply do not see the social importance of this. Why would you make it three years? What's wrong with two years right now? What problem are we solving? I'd like the Secretary of State's response. Mr Ronnes actually asked the same question. Then there is the amendment to item No. 10, to allow the right of preference to continue for two years after destruction of the environmental plan. This has just been mentioned by other speakers. Forgive me, but it's about laws, so I call all kinds of articles. Article 9.4, third paragraph, states that after the destruction of the environmental plan, the right of preference applies for a further year, so that the plan can be restored in the meantime. It has just been rightly pointed out that a year is very short when your environmental plan is destroyed. Are you gonna make it in that year? Isn't it very logical to take two years to do that? I'd like the Secretary of State's response to that amendment. It seems to us to be more careful to make that two years. I come to the amendment to item No. 11, on the deletion of an exception to the right of preference, as currently provided for in the legislative proposal. I just had an interrupting debate with Mr Ronnes. My group does not agree with the addition: the competent authority decides that the right of preference does not apply when a intended transferee is able to carry out the desired function himself. We believe that municipalities should be able to do so. In our view, this really reads as a free pass for project developers. On the one hand, self-realization sounds incredibly sympathetic. I think we're all thinking about self-realization: that's what we should do. We all feel the same way about the example Mrs Van Eijs mentioned about land that belongs to a family for many years and about the possibility of developing a few homes of our own. But what are we doing if this is the possibility of a piece of land, on which a municipality, for example, wants to develop a new residential area or a new industrial area, just as quickly to sell to a project developer, who then uses self-realization for years to do nothing and wait until that land becomes even more scarce and expensive and can catch even more for it? Why do we choose to undermine the public interest in this area? I really do not understand that and I would like a response from the Secretary of State on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u32	I can also imagine the situation that Mr Smeulders has outlined, which was also outlined by Mr Nijboer, of an area which has been abandoned for years and which is annoying everyone: where is this beautiful residential area? But does his objection apply to self-realization? Because if the project is eventually realized as the municipality intended, I think we are all happy. Is his objection no longer directed at the fact that it may take so long and can therefore be trained for a very long time?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u33	That is a valid point from Mrs Van Eijs. Actually, I think my objection is on both points.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u34	Then I would like to know from Mr Smeulders why it is so much better if it is realized by municipalities. Municipalities generally never really build entirely themselves........................................................................................................................................................... Then why is it so problematic when the landowner develops the land, if this happens as quickly or almost as quickly as if the municipality had done so?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u35	Then I'm going to give you a slightly longer answer. I've been alderman of the ground for this. We went to Helmond to develop a residential area, Brandevoort. We went to work together, Mr Ronnes, Mrs Van Eijs and myself. That's where the next problem was. The municipality had bought out almost all farmers there, except in one piece, because we didn't need that at the time. That piece was finally bought by a developer, who resold it in 100 pieces, with the result that the municipality there couldn't actually develop that neighborhood anymore. You can't negotiate with 100 different people about what's going to happen there. And those 100 people can't build hundreds of 50 homes there either. They can't. Thus, the public interest was not served, and the private interest of the project developer, the real estate speculator, was. All those people who bought those pieces of land there are now super pissed, because they thought they were buying building land, but they can't get it together to apply self-realization. The result is that a piece of residential area is not being developed, which is bad for the municipality, that fewer homes are coming, which is bad for the people who want to live there, that the people who bought it are all bloody grumpy and that there is only one winner, namely the land speculator. I think we should avoid that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u36	I am thinking: I think I have sometimes asked written questions myself about these situations with extreme fragmentation that ultimately have a business model behind them. But again, the problem is not so much the fact that someone realizes it themselves, but the fact that there are apparently all kinds of other effects. Well, that's my interpretation, isn't it? It's not so much the fact that someone can develop it themselves, just like the church invented.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u37	I think the question is more what you think is most important and who you have more faith in. I generally have more confidence in municipalities because they are democratically legitimized and in any case serve the public interest. "In general," I say, because there are also developers who are very good, but I think municipalities go for the good rather than developers. There are undoubtedly some good ones, but we also know far too many examples of people who do it mainly to make a lot of money. And that's not the importance of my defending here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u38	Mrs Regterschot's first interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u39	I still feel invited by that beautiful example of Helmond that is mentioned. I have an opposite example of the municipality of Heerlen. There's a piece of land, or actually a building, purchased by the municipality. The building has been demolished and the development of the plan must begin. There's a lot of strangling about what's supposed to come. In a shrinkage area, it is always a question of whether you can set up so much and whether that is desirable. All these considerations need to be made. There is a collaboration with a developer who really wants to make a plan. Part of the land belongs to the investor or at least to the owner. We soon talk about speculators, but the ground is often from people who have eventually simply accumulated possession. The part of the municipality and the development of the plan does not come off the ground because one is in each other's way. Wouldn't it be nice if it were a matter of giving and taking it together and seeing that development together? I said it in my speech, too. 'Cause what's going on right now? We're turning it into a city park because we don't have a choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u40	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u41	The question is, don't you see those odds? They're not just speculators. It's not just that. The development can also be triggered by self-realization.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u42	First of all, it's an honor to get the first interruption from you. Secondly, the outcome of a city park sounds beautiful to me. So I don't see the problem right away. But to be more serious about your question: yes, I think self-realization offers a lot of opportunities. What I'm expecting, and what I've been through in my time as alderman, is that if there's an owner who really wants something, they'll do it. Then you ask them how they want to do it and you go talk to the city. Then it is also in the municipality's interest that these people simply develop. So I don't think that's gonna stand in the way of this adjustment at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u43	Let me ask you a quick question. Mrs Van Eijs also mentioned it, and in my ears it sounds more like it's not about whether you want others to do it, but it's about the pace at which it happens. So you'd prefer to make agreements on that, if I understand you correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u44	What I want most is for the municipality to keep the direction function. The standard should be that the municipality gives the possibility, unless there is a project developer or whoever has a better plan. Then the municipality can say: what good; you can do it, because then we know that it is realized faster than when we do it ourselves. Only in this case it is reversed and you put the initiative down to private parties. That could go well. Fortunately, we have examples of this. But we also have a lot of examples where things are not going well. I would prefer to see the democratically legitimized local government take the lead over the commercial project developers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u45	I would not like to say that Mrs Regterschot is satisfied, but she does not need a follow-up question. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u46	I would like to move on to the amendment to item No. 21. That's about expropriation if the owner doesn't go into self-realization. My group believes that there is no possibility of sanctions if an owner resorts to self-realization, which does not allow expropriation, but the realisation goes according to the line we were just discussing. The Council for the Environment and Infrastructure also includes this in its opinion Land for the Development of Areas. We are proposing that we should still be able to expropriate if this is not the case. I would very much like to hear the reaction of the Secretary of State to that amendment. Secondly, I come to the amendment on item No. 22, about clustering the final account. It's not gonna be much more technical today, I promise. After five years, a final statement from the municipality may be requested at the request of an interested party. Municipalities expressly ask that a statement be made only once a year in the year when a request for final settlement is made. This is to prevent all kinds of different anchoring moments for different applicants. This is actually meant to counter bureaucracy in municipalities. That seems to be a small point, but the Association of Dutch Municipalities is very much on this, so I hope that the Secretary of State will give a positive opinion on this amendment. Then I shall move on to the amendment to item No. 24. This is about refusing the environmental permit because of insufficient increase in value. That's a wonderful scrabble word, by the way. The bill shows that the cost story should not exceed the increase in value. However, it may also be the case that the increase in value is so low that the municipality still has a shortage. In our view, this is undesirable, for example, if there are very high costs for demolition or rehabilitation that are deducted from the increase in value. GroenLinks therefore proposes to include a provision to refuse the environmental permit in the event of that insufficient increase in value. Last but not least, I come to the amendment tabled by Mr Ronnes, who is now standing up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u47	I find that very strange from GroenLinks. GroenLinks is a party that I think is also in favour of quality improvement. The point is that the goals that you have with each other in such an area are realized. You can see such a development as some kind of ATM. When there is not enough money in it, can you also make a contribution from a municipality, for example? What do you stand for? Do you stand purely for the pin function or do you stand for quality improvement and the realization of things that are good for society?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u48	I certainly stand for things that are good for society. We are tabling this amendment because we do not believe that the private party can make a huge profit on the project, but that the municipality has to add so much to it that it cannot actually cost. The fact that the municipality has to make a lot of money is the problem that we are trying to raise. For example, the municipality has to build the public space and the greenery. If that is not possible, then I think it should be possible for the municipality to say: this simply cannot be done, we will have to put social money on this and we will therefore make a different assessment. I think that municipalities should say: we do not do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u49	Does GroenLinks assume that all projects end in the plus? I think there are plenty of examples of a hole in one operation filled with a profit from somewhere else.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u50	I think Mr Ronnes and I agree. We want to give city councils the opportunity to refuse. You can also simply say: this is worth it to us, because in the end this is good for the development of the city, so we do not mind that public money goes into this. No hard feelings. However, we do not believe that it can be the case that municipalities are actually forced to do it, while they have a thick hole in their land exploitation and the social interest is not served in this way. So there's a choice. Trust that the municipal authorities make a good choice. I would like to say a few words about the amendment to item No. 29, which Mr Ronnes has tabled on our behalf. This is about partly recounting the costs caused by a particular spatial development. Mr Ronnes has made a fantastic story about it. I believe that this amendment is widely supported, so I hope it will be adopted. To be honest, I would find it strange if it were not accepted, because it is possible right now. There are very few municipalities that use it and the amendment is written down so that it actually has a lot of exceptions or actually much more limited than is currently possible. So I do not see directly where the possible abuse of that would be. In my view, this is a way of serving public interests, and that is always good in our view. That's it, Mr. Chairman. I look forward to the answer of the Secretary of State and to the response to our amendments and my question. I have one more thing to say for the Acts. We have an amendment to point No. 18, but on second thought, we want to withdraw it. That's what I'm doing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u51	The Smeulders amendment (Doc. 18) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I congratulate Mrs Regterschot once again on her maiden speech. That's always a festive moment. Mr. Chairman. The Environment Act was adopted in 2015. This brought together existing laws into one law. The original intention was to simplify and speed up spatial projects and their procedures. That all sounds fine. Who's against that? Now we're talking about the Supplementary Land Property Act. Those who read this Supplementary Act and also the explanatory memorandum have come to the conclusion that, unfortunately, climate madness has also achieved environmental law. I have not yet heard the other speakers on this subject. I quote: "The climate is changing. It's getting warmer, more precipitation falls and sea level rises. This requires, among other things, more space for quays, water storage and climate-neutral energy generation, such as solar and wind energy. (...) The tasks are considerable and not yet exact to determine. They ask for a government that can respond flexibly to these changes." Mr. Chairman. "A government that can adapt flexibly." First of all, which quays are meant? Is the cabinet planning to rig up a whole new Delta Plan or whatever? How does the Cabinet view this? Well, it's striking, isn't it? Last Saturday there was an interesting interview in De Telegraaf with Delta Commissioner Peter Glas. He literally said, "There is no accelerated rise in sea level." This is contrary to what is in the pleading. He also said, "There's no need to panic." Should we be worried? No. Are we safe? Yes, the Netherlands is well protected. So again the question: what quays and projects is the government talking about? Mr. Chairman. And then, second, back to the Supplementary Land Property Act. According to the Minister, excuse, according to the Secretary of State, therefore more space is needed for the climate-neutral generation of energy and the government should be able to respond flexibly to it. That's what this means. I quote from the explanatory statement: 'If solutions are not reached on a voluntary basis, it may sometimes be necessary for the government to intervene in property rights, business and personal rights in real estate'. In other words, expropriation, an instrument that is added to the Environment Act with this Supplementary Act. In other words, if you do not want to give up your land for windmills and such, while the government lacks space, you will have to believe it eventually. Can the Secretary of State respond to that? The PVV really thinks it is a very bad combination: expropriation of land and need more space for windmills and solar panels. Can the Secretary of State undertake that no inch of land will be expropriated for the placement of those terrible windmills and/or solar panels? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the cost story. With this instrument, developers, builders and investors pay money per plan, for example, to municipalities for public services, such as infrastructure, greening and administrative costs. These costs are currently regulated, designated by AMvB, and will also be taken over in the Environmental Act. However, according to the cabinet, this list will be supplemented by "fear not" types of costs related to climate adaptation, energy transition and new mobility concepts, whatever that may be. Can the Secretary of State explain that? What types of costs are these? What are we supposed to think about? How high are they gonna be? Does that mean that I am saying very briefly that developers, builders and investors can also pay for all this climate madness? I'd like a response. How will that list be supplemented? Also by AMvB, or otherwise? Some time ago there was an interesting article about this in the Dutch Lawyers' Magazine. It says: "The normalization shifts from the formal legislature, namely the Second and First Chambers, to the executive power, or the government." Those lawyers speak of 'a lack of democratic legitimacy'. This has already been discussed in an earlier debate on the Environment Act. The Environment Act is a so-called "framework law" in which material standards are largely lacking. The implementation of these standards is later regulated by AMvB. Of course, I'll admit those AMVBs need to be hung by the Rooms. That's all fine. But what is that worth in practice? Can the Secretary of State respond to that? The right of amendment is lacking. Of course, we can have debates and table motions here, but everything has been said, because we cannot do much else. Then I come back to those types of costs related to climate adaptation, energy transition and "new mobility concepts".................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I'd like an explanation from the Secretary of State. So far in the first term, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u53	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Bishop of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u54	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to join those colleagues who congratulated Mrs Regterschot on her beautiful maiden speech. A bit of an insight into the motivation was given fantastic! And I would also like to congratulate colleagues south of the great rivers on their majority tonight. But don't count rich, because I'm from Staphorst. That is enough counterweight, I think! Mr. Chairman. As a result of this supplementary law, I would like to discuss a number of points. First of all, the issue of expropriation. The SGP attaches importance to careful expropriation procedures. It's a big deal when your land or your home is taken away by the government, even if it's in the public interest. The European Convention on Human Rights is not without reason the right to property. Even if it hurts a little for me as a historian that a law from 1851 is being kicked, I can justify it. However, you do have serious doubts about the proposal to move the route through the civil court to the administrative court. In that respect, it remains a bit of a strange duck in the bite. Fortunately, the General Administrative Law Act is not followed one-on-one. At the same time, the expropriation procedure is now being decoupled from the compensation procedure. It will continue to run through the civil courts. The minister assumes time savings, but experts warn that it will be the other way around. The threshold for appeal is higher than the threshold for appeal. It will also take time on the administrative trail to complete a file before it can be made available for inspection. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State to this criticism. The Minister opts for legal protection in two bodies and leaves the scope of the review to the courts. The Council of State advises to opt for legal protection in one instance, namely the Council of State, and to lay down the desired full review in the law. This leads to faster procedures and more clarity. The substantive expertise can therefore focus on one court, which allows for better review. We also hear the same comments and comments from lawyers. Furthermore, full review does justice to the value of the property right. But the Minister does not want that, because that would deviate from the procedure of the General Administrative Law Act. Our plea is: choose the content. The question to the Secretary of State is: why doesn't the Minister choose that? The SGP believes that we should at all times prevent someone from being expropriated without him or her being aware of it, for example because he or she is staying abroad. The bill offers less guarantees for this than the current Expropriation Act. The bailiff is being exchanged for mailbox mail. Is the Minister prepared to consider how to ensure that the current safeguards for timely notification are maintained? We have tabled one amendment on this point. Let me turn to the following point: land exploitation. The SGP has some questions about the letter of amendment, which added a provision to explicitly allow financial contributions to spatial development. An important principle in environmental law is that the costs of, for example, building infrastructure or other suburban facilities can be recovered from a project developer insofar as those costs are attributable to the project and the project benefits from it. In addition, a project developer can make a financial contribution to other spatial developments, but that is always on a voluntary basis, formal. It is not intended that this can be enforced, but in practice we see it happening. In the original bill, the Minister had omitted the provision concerning the financial contribution, because research showed that it has no added value. We note that the letter of amendment introduces the provision, according to the explanatory memorandum, in order to continue the current practice. Then the question is: why is this added value suddenly there? I'd like an explanation. Or is it intended to allow for a forced financial contribution? This would be contrary to the principles of cost recovery on the one hand and voluntaryness on the other. I'd like an explanation. Will the Minister remain in a voluntary financial contribution and stay away from payment planning? Then the point of landscaping. The instrument of land development is not very often used, but it can play an important role where necessary. That is why it is right that the instrument should be incorporated into the law. I have a few questions about the design. In practice, it seems difficult to go through the other spatial planning procedures in addition to the land-planning procedure. That's not always right. Instead of looking at how it can be better aligned, the government chooses to make a new cut between the land-use plan and the land-use decision. That may sound nice, but in practice it does not bring us the desired integrity, quite the contrary. Is the Secretary of State or the Minister prepared to look, in consultation with experts and interest groups, at how we can ensure that the land-use instrument is as closely linked as possible to the practice? Furthermore, experts warn that the provision in Article 12.47, which states that lot exchange should be an agreement aimed at improving an area, can cause unnecessary confusion. The article gives the Tax Administration ammunition to dissect every lot exchange, insofar as it has the time and opportunity to do so, and to question the desired exemption from transfer tax, while the explanatory memorandum to the bill states that the improvement requirement is not an independent test. Isn't it better to delete this particular article, 12.47? Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to focus on the right of preference. With the Environment Plan, municipalities will look further ahead and may also become more active. This is a very good thing in itself, but the SGP does not want to impose a right of preference unnecessarily and to maintain it unnecessarily for a long time without further action. Is it not better to shorten the period from ten to five years, with the possibility of extending that right by five years if necessary? Then you have those ten years again, but the municipality then has a stick behind the door, which means that there is a more active responsibility for the right of preference. Furthermore, the SGP questions the exception in the case of self-realisation by a potential buyer. That seems to be an opportunity for project developers to buy in, whether through phony constructions or not. Experts fear a new struggle for ground positions, as was the case for 2002. At that time, such an exemption also applied. Does the Minister want to go back to that situation? Mr. Chairman. I'll leave it at that. I should like to apologize directly to the govern ment, and also to you, because I have another obligation this evening, which I cannot avoid. Unfortunately, I cannot see the answer, but I promise you that I will look back on it breathless later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u55	Thank you. Thank you for pointing out that you are not here. Mr Nijboer also indicated that he had other obligations after the first deadline. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van Eijs of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We live, work and live together on only a small territory, in a low-lying delta, with a grand economy. Partly because of our good spatial planning, we can do that. Mrs Regterschot had a maiden speech that partly overlapped with what I wanted to start with, but I thought I'd start with it anyway! As a seventh speaker after her I also like to congratulate her on her maiden speech with a little bit of Limburgs in it. That makes a lot of people feel extra at home here in The Hague, I think. But I was talking about good spatial planning. Pressure in the Netherlands is increasing. Densifying cities and thickening mobility flows. On the other hand, there is sometimes shrinkage and disappearing facilities. In order to be ready for the future, we need to design our country, our cities and our villages smartly. We really need to build more homes where it is good for everyone, in neighborhoods with plenty of greenery, in an environment where it is healthy and with neighbourhoods where distances are short, so that the streets are filled with bikes and ov. These challenges of the future require both determination and flexibility in our ground policy. Today we are talking about a law that can bring our ideal image of the future closer. For the viability of our cities, we need to find solutions for future housing needs and accessibility, solutions for cities where land ownership is increasingly fragmented. While spatial challenges call for speed and determination, fragmented land ownership may hinder the development of our cities and villages. It is unacceptable if ambitious construction plans do not continue because a single landowner is trying to get the best out of it. We therefore wonder whether it is not advisable to have urban land consolidation and a mandatory character as a stick in order to be able to steer our cities decisively. The urban lot exchange incentive programme allows good results. In Germany, 80% is voluntary with a compulsory option. The Minister states that a programme with mandatory lot exchange has advantages and is being examined. In rural areas mandatory lot exchange is already successfully applied. In the case of business investment zones, too, decisions can be taken for the whole area if two thirds of the number of participating companies agrees. My question to the Secretary of State is therefore whether it is not possible to use the same system as in the business investment zone for urban land consolidation. Can the Secretary of State indicate how compulsory land consolidation is taken into account in the further investigation? And can he promise that there will be a quick reaction to the Chamber once the investigation into mandatory re-landing has been completed, preferably even before the law enters into force? Mr. Chairman. In addition to determination, flexibility is also needed. Organic area development offers a solution. With organic area development, we offer space for initiatives from society and can respond to what is needed in a changing neighbourhood. This is contrary to the imposition of a definite blueprint. With organic area development functions can also grow and be adjusted. If a neighborhood with a small number of houses is built, there is probably no need for a new bridge to the neighborhood opposite, but if we then successfully develop and there is strong housing compaction, you may need two bridges afterwards. Municipalities are given more room in the legislative proposal to align the cost story with organic area development. These are very good first steps. Resilience is extremely important, even when we see in the energy transition that developments are fast following each other. We need to be able to go with time in our spatial policy. When we can adjust the costs of spatial initiatives in the course of organic area development, we only really look at living, livingability and accessibility in conjunction with each other. This way we can take opportunities in the environment when these occur. This is what residents can expect from the government: a government that keeps thinking instead of just doing what has ever been laid down. I have therefore tabled an amendment to this effect. Mr. Chairman. In addition to organic area development, cross-border investments also require flexibility. Unfortunately, the present PPP criteria do not provide this flexibility. Profit and accountability are not easy to understand for these investments at city level. In practice, it is not the case that not only the inhabitants of a city district benefit from a new connection to a bicycle network. The whole city will benefit if there is a better flow and more people ride their bikes. Projects that are good for the whole city should be easy to get through. All parties then invest together in the environment of the future. Municipalities should be able to ask for suburban contributions to developers with careful calculation without these PPP criteria, as they do now. To this end, we have submitted the amendment tabled by our colleague Mr Ronnes and we are careful to ensure that sufficient types of costs can be met. In this way, we give municipalities room to deliver customization. Finally, self-realization. It is good that the law allows individuals to tackle challenges in spatial development. It is important, however, that this results in tangible results. Here, therefore, the situation requires flexibility and determination. My question to the Secretary of State is therefore how we ensure that someone who claims to develop himself will and will continue to develop at an acceptable pace. What are the possibilities of adjustment when calling for self-realisation and not leading to tangible results in the foreseeable future? Mr. Chairman. I'd like to close up. This is a legal and very complicated piece. There are things I prefer to do on Saturdays and Sundays, but it is still very important to look at the balance between protecting the rightholder of property and a very desirable social development that we want to see. From all the legal texts we discuss here, we must eventually follow an environment that is attractive, sustainable, liveable and healthy for our inhabitants.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u57	Thank you, Mrs Van Eijs. The Secretary of State has indicated that he needs a short suspension of 15 to 20 minutes. I shall suspend the sitting until 9:05 p.m., but 9:10 p.m. is also allowed. I'm gonna take a look at the Secretary of State. Then we'll suspend until 9:10 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u58	The Secretary of State is ready to answer the questions. First of all, I would like to ask the Secretary of State what the structure of his speech is and whether he can also take account of the appreciation of the amendments in his speech. It's quite a pile. I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u59	Thank you, Mr President. I am not quite familiar with the structure of my speech. No, I'm kidding. I'll take you into the themes I have here. Of course, I'll mention some general issues first. Then I will talk about self-realization and expropriation; then about cost story, contract and financial contribution; then about alternative financing; then about landscaping, land consolidation and urban lot exchange; then about the right of preference. I should like to make a second assessment of the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u60	No problem at all. Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u61	But they are of course already being discussed on the left and right, so it will appear to the good listener that they are amendments that have already been tabled. Mr. Chairman. Indeed, I am here because the Minister is unable to attend because of illness. I wish her well from this place. I hope she'll be back soon. Until then, I will do my best to replace her as best I can. I congratulate Mrs Regterschot on her maiden speech. That's always a special moment. For me as a Limburger it is also special that I talk to you with so much warmth about Limburg and The Hague, because that's how I experience it, as the best of both worlds, you might say. I wish you every success in your new office as a member of the House of Representatives. Mr. Chairman. The Land Property Act is an important subject. I am also pleased that the Chamber wanted to speak on this proposal so soon, which now allows me to stand here. I would like to thank you for the first-term input and for the amendments tabled, because this political handicraft is not insignificant for legislation, as one of your Members said. A lot happens behind the scenes. I believe that Mr Smeulders made that statement. There is no doubt that we do not agree on everything, but the fact that the right of amendment is applied by the Chamber is always very much appreciated. I know how much work lies behind that. I would like to take a look back at the objectives of the Land Property Act, which is now before us. It has already been said by several speakers: the government has a number of tools to acquire land in special situations to redesign areas or to recover costs for public services from initiators. This is important, because this can actually make the government realise social challenges in the area of housing and nature. This can be done by the use of various instruments, such as the establishment of the right of preference or, ultimately, expropriation. These instruments are now scattered in various laws. With this supplement law, the existing instruments of ground policy become part of the system of the Environment Act. This law brings these instruments together for the first time. This law simplifies and modernises the instruments. I think it is important that governments should also be able to implement ground-based policies that facilitate their own tasks, but also to leave room for citizens and businesses to take initiatives. That's what we call organic land development. This is happening more and more often in practice. You can see all kinds of beautiful examples of that. With the task we face in this small country, the government needs other parties. I think Mr Nijboer was talking about that. Mr Kops mentioned centimetres, but he undoubtedly meant square centimetres, because that is exactly how it is done in the Netherlands. It is important that this spatial planning is implemented in a very precise manner. Wherever possible, this legislative proposal will remove the obstacles to this. The proposal therefore sets out a new system for cost recovery in organic area development. In another area, too, the legislative proposal offers new opportunities. For example, lot exchange is also made possible in urban areas and owners can trade land and/or store more easily independently and after mutual consultation. This has particular potential in areas where ownership is fragmented. The instruments of this Supplementary Act are not in themselves. Together with instruments from the Environment Act, such as the environmental vision and the environmental plan, the instruments of this supplement act form a future-proof and coherent package. The integration of ground policy into environmental law will allow better coordination of planning and implementation. Developments can be made easier and faster. That saves time and costs. These savings can be re-used to improve the living environment. The Environment Act is not a Hague law but is established in close cooperation with the implementation practice. Many of you have already referred to this. Together with municipalities, water boards, provinces, citizens and corporate representatives, the basis for this has been laid. The same applies to the Land Property Act. Many parties have been involved in the preparation. For example, there is regular contact with municipalities, provinces, VNG and NEPROM about the design and development of the cost story scheme. Scientists and various bodies, including the Supreme Court, the Court of Justice and the Council for the Environment and Infrastructure, have also provided advice, and there have been collision tests. You all know what they have done to test the functioning of the legal instruments. This has ensured a careful process and a set of useful tools for implementation practice. What is very important is the balance between the protection of property and the realisation of plans. You have all taken this into account in your contribution. The proposal also regulates the frameworks for the application of these instruments. The proposal allows public authorities to implement projects in the public interest, but at the same time provides sufficient protection for landowners. So it really is about the balance between protecting property on the one hand and really making new developments possible on the other. That balance is at the heart of this bill. It thus builds on the balance sheet that Thorbecke had already anchored in his law of expropriation. At the same time, there is now a modernised instrument package that can be used for the societal challenges of the future, such as the construction of infrastructure and the construction of housing, on which you have talked a lot with the Minister and will continue to talk. In this context, it is also interesting that the questions and proposals I have heard today about a public-law and enforceable financial contribution regime can shed new light on this matter. I am thinking, for example, of the task of tackling the problem of nitrogen and the costs to be recovered. We didn't talk about that prominently a few months ago, but now we know what the consequences are. In summary, this bill contributes to the future layout of our country and does justice to the interests of our residents. Mr. Chairman. I shall now turn to the cubes as I have just mentioned and at least try to answer the questions raised by the respective Members. Under the heading general, Mr Smeulders asked questions about the purpose of the law. Will it be simpler and better? That is, of course, a fair question. This Environmental Law replaces a large number of laws, rules and decisions, and a multitude of instruments, concepts, procedures and deadlines. This requires enormous harmonisation. Changing can be painful. We're not used to that. We're just to stick to what we had, but the forest of rules and not always in synchronized laws made us come to that Environment Act. That, by the way, makes it possible, from my digital government portfolio, to open up rules digitally with that Environment Act. So they also become more accessible to the people who have to work with them in practice. I have said that many parties have been involved in the new rules. It is also being experimented with. Environmental law may never become very simple for anyone who has had to deal with land-use planning as a driver, some of whom are here, to know how it works in practice, but it does provide a solid basis for weighing the political dilemmas, which are also really reserved for the representatives of the people. You asked me when we'd get all that insightful. Because if you treat the parts separately, you might lose sight of the connection. Of this I can say that this consolidated, integrated version of the law, in which all the amendments are visible in conjunction, will be very soon to be seen. Sharing is already visible on the internet. Then you can also assess what this law will look like when it enters into force. Mr Smeulders also asked whether it would be feasible to enter into force on 1 January 2021. Today we're talking about that part, the Supplementary Land Property Act. It is about the construction process of the new system of the Environment Act, so the entry into force is not yet under discussion. By 2 December at the latest, therefore, you will receive a comprehensive progress letter from the Minister on this matter. This is about the state of play of the regulation, implementation and the Digital System Environment Act, the DSO. That letter shall also contain the measures still necessary for entry into force on 1 January 2021. Following this letter, the Minister will be happy to discuss this with you. Mr Kops wondered whether the rules of the Environment Act were necessary for, among other things, quays and referred to the Delta Commissioner. For a Limburger this is difficult to imagine, but for large parts of the Netherlands dikes are vital. We all have to keep dry feet, especially in areas where a lot of people live and work. We have had a lot of experience with this in history. The Delta programme provides measures for a safe future. So these measures are and remain necessary. The Environmental Act, including this Supplementary Act, also provides the tools for this. Mr Kops also wondered how this is going with the shift of standards from legal treatment to AMvBs and front suspension procedures. One could say that it restricts the Chamber's ability to amend very specifically. In dealing with the Environment Act, the level of standards was already an important point. Following the opinion of the Council of State and the debate in Parliament, several safeguards have been incorporated into the law. For example, the basis for delegation is limited in law, for example for implementing European directives. There is also a pending procedure, so that Parliament is involved early in the creation of AMvBs. This has increased the direction of the legislator. That is always a dilemma: if you are very specific in legislation at the front, you limit flexibility and you actually hinder progress. The system whereby you incorporate basic provisions in the law, which you then work out in AMvBs, is in itself a very adaptive system. The House of Representatives then also agreed to the Environment Act, which was set up in this way. The Court then debated both the four AMvBs and the proposals for the introduction law and the four supplementary legislative proposals. In doing so, the system has a careful process with great parliamentary involvement. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the head of self-realization and expropriation. Mr Bishop, who has left us physically at least for a moment, has asked a number of questions about this which I would like to answer. Why is there an exception to the obligation to offer when sold to someone else who also wants to realise a development? Now it is true that not only municipalities but also other owners can realise a development. You can't just call on self-realization. The bill makes clear demands on the sale. As with expropriation, the buyer must show that he is willing and able to realise the development. In addition, expropriation can also call for self-realisation. The right of preference was an exception. That anomaly is now being undone. Mrs Van Eijs wondered how we could ensure that someone who claims to develop themselves would do so at an acceptable pace. A number of others have also spoken about this. The environmental plan in the Environment Act offers the city council various possibilities to accelerate the realisation of the desired development, especially where it concerns rules on the establishment, phasing, periods and links that could only be included in an operating plan under the Land Planning Act. These rules provide a basis for the expropriation interest. By including clear rules on the desired development, the municipality can give guidance in this way. If the plans of the owner do not match the plan execution desired by the municipality can still be expropriated. Then a number of members asked: how can we realize what we think is important? Isn't the balance coming through because of this self-realization? If an owner is willing and able to realise the developments himself according to the demands of the government, then there is nothing against it. That is at the heart of the proposal. That is exactly the balance we are looking for. The Environmental Plan and the Environment Act offer the City Council various possibilities to accelerate the realisation of the desired development, in particular with the rules on design, phasering, periods and links that could only be included in an operating plan under the Wro. These rules provide a basis for the expropriation interest. By including clear rules on the desired development, the municipality can thus steer. This also applies if the plans of the owner do not fit in with the plan execution desired by the municipality, can still be expropriated. As you know, the right to self-realisation is enshrined in the Constitution and also in the European Convention on Human Rights. Therefore, an owner cannot simply invoke the principle of self-realization. He or she really needs to be able to demonstrate that the development meets the requirements of the municipality in order to ensure that the qualitative public objective is also achieved. Mr Van Gerven asked about the opportunities for young buyers in the housing market. How can we give young buyers who don't have that much money a chance? You said: everything that leads to cost stories and therefore to more expensive homes must be avoided, mustn't it? And you asked me what I'm gonna do about it. On behalf of the Minister, I share your concerns about access for start-ups in the housing market. The Minister has also been committed to building and maintaining affordable homes for a reason. The build impulse of 1 billion is going to help, but we are also looking at the destination category of social purchase and at an exploration of a residential obligation in the existing construction, because we do not want to have an empty position if we see at the same time crunched on the housing market. This week you will receive the results of the research carried out on the category of destination for social purchase. That will be sent to the Chamber this week. We also focus more on the opportunities for start-ups and middle-incomes. The rental measures in the housing market package presented on Prinsjesdag contribute to this. Pilots are also running to give start-ups more opportunities for mortgage lending. We also explore to what extent a differentiation of transfer tax between start-ups and investors and a different tax on rental income can contribute to increasing opportunities for start-ups. Of course, it is a bit of a side-step of what is going on here, but it is an important social problem, which hopefully can be discussed to your satisfaction soon. Mr Ronnes asked why a full review of the expropriation decision was not required. The court may choose between a full or a marginal review. That's not something the bill's got going on right now. Moreover, it is a basic rule of unwritten administrative law that the judge himself can make that choice. So I think we should also be reluctant to sit on the judge's seat in this matter. Therefore, it is not necessary to establish that measure as a kind of rule for a judge. Moreover, this has been applied without problems for many years. Mr Bishop asked why it was not necessary for the expropriation decision to be served on the rightholder, so that the current safeguards for timely notification are maintained. I would like to point out that the possibility of a rightholder not being informed is considered minimal. In the mandatory friendly consultation process, the public authorities must make an effort to reach the rightholder. That is also being examined in the procedure. Furthermore, the competent authority sends letters to rightholders concerning the draft expropriation decision and the expropriation decision taken. An application for compensation shall also be sent. Someone must have missed all the communications at those different stages in order not to be informed. We don't think that's a good chance. If a person is truly untraceable despite all the efforts of the government, his or her interests are nevertheless protected. This is done through the basic test of the expropriation decision by the court. Therefore, I do not consider service, so offering the decision to the owner, to be necessary. The procedure has been carefully secured. Mr Smeulders asked whether expropriation is possible for nature development. I think Mr Smeulders knows the answer to that question. The answer is yes. But whether it is about nature, where there can be political, social or public goals, or about something else, expropriation is, of course, still the ultimate means at this stage, because we must be extremely reluctant to expropriate in relation to property law. In the case of acquisition of land, the primary objective is always to achieve friendly acquisition. If you can't do that, you'll have to do it by expropriation. It is up to the province and the municipality as the competent authority to determine, in the light of the objectives to be achieved, which instruments are best suited to this. That works pretty well in practice. You will be able to recognise from those experiences that expropriation is not quickly effected. That's quite a procedure, too. All stages will have to go through without a positive result. Mr Ronnes wondered what the expectation was that after the payment of self-realizing owners those owners would actually start working. It is carefully checked whether that owner is willing and able to realize. The expropriation has given rise to extensive case law and the Crown has also developed criteria for this. So there's a lot of experience with that. In practice, in any case, we have not received any signals that the implementation stagnated after a successful self-realisation defence. Moreover, self-realization is only called upon if the realization is interesting for the owner. That is why I do not expect a special sanction to be required. There is already, in fact, the new expropriation procedure. It is unlikely that the owner will be able to rely on self-realization. Mr Ronnes also wondered why the possible third-party appointment would expire if an owner could not be found. That third appointment takes place if an owner is not findable. That hardly happens, by the way. Then a third party is appointed to replace the untraceable owner and defend his interests. With the new law, that strict separation was made between the expropriation decision and the compensation. That named third party is hardly relevant to the expropriation itself in the current law, to the process carried out through the expropriation decision. This has been replaced by a basic judicial test. In fact, the third appointment only plays a role in determining compensation. For the purpose of determining such compensation, the third appointment has been maintained. We don't think there's any reduction in legal protection for that untraceable owner. Mr Kops wondered whether there would be more room for windmills and whether they could be expropriated. This is actually the same answer as Mr Smeulder's question: yes, there can be expropriation of the ultimate. The policy question of whether this is for windmills, nature, housing, industrial sites, etc., lies, of course, with the competent authorities: the municipalities, the provinces and the Empire. In the end, they decide whether they consider that interest to be so great and do not reach friendly agreement in order to expropriate. The law contains frameworks for expropriation. The legislative proposal also contains arrangements necessary to implement projects in the public interest. Mr Bishop asked very explicitly why the Minister was holding on to the line not to opt for ratification and appeal in one instance in expropriation. On behalf of the Minister, I would say that careful procedures and legal protection are paramount in the event of expropriation. An instrument that far-reaching also includes careful and optimal legal protection. We agree with the standard rule in the administrative law of appeal in two bodies. There are also two bodies in the current expropriation procedure. It also implements the Ronnes/Veldman motion calling on the government to ensure that the level of protection is at least equivalent in the event of expropriation. Mr Ronnes spoke about this earlier. Mr Bishop further asked why we opt for a procedure through administrative law when expropriation takes place. This has to do with the fact that we want to join the General Administrative Law Act. That has been the starting point for the Environmental Act, so also for this Supplementary Act. The power to expropriate shall lie directly with the administrative body concerned. So there is no need for a crown decision anymore. In modern administrative law, legal protection is open to the administrative courts against the decision of the government. The advantage of this is that the procedure is low-threshold. Moreover, the involvement of the administrative judge is always assured. Compensation remains with the civil court, which is also best equipped for that purpose. Mr Bishop asked whether the new procedure would not be longer than it is now, especially because of the appeal, which is easier than cassation. According to our calculations, this procedure is on average shorter. On average, the entire route will be six months to one year shorter, which will of course depend on whether an appeal is brought or not. In any case, I would like to stress that the procedure proposed certainly does not last longer than the current procedure. Now I'm going to get to the chapter on the cost story. In this respect, the groups of D66, CDA, GroenLinks and Party of Labour have all indicated that, in addition to the voluntary financial contribution through anterior agreements, a public track should also be developed with enforceable possibility of financial contribution, in order to have a stick behind the door, as with the cost story. I have indicated that I am sympathetic to such a regulation, especially as it may also provide an answer to questions such as the problem of nitrogen that we are dealing with today. That's a major problem. However, I think it is important to clarify the provisions for which this can be used and also to specify the maximum amount of this contribution. I will come back to the assessment of the amendment, but I can tell you that when I read the explanatory statement on that amendment, I think that there are still some problems, particularly with regard to the domain limitation and the specific criteria that are mentioned. The amendment uses terms such as 'functional coherence','reasonable deadlines' and 'not too far away from the initiative'. Those are elegant concepts, I'd almost say. The question is whether the proposers have deliberately chosen to do so, but I do believe that a public law regime is clear and transparent. Otherwise, we will soon get to the point where we do not give the desired clarity and it will be up to the judge to judge. The question is whether the proposers had that in mind. Do you want to have an arrangement that is built up into some kind of case law by court rulings, or is there any possibility of amending item No. 29 to make it more specific?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u62	You give your appreciation in second term, but this certainly raises a question for Mr Ronnes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u63	I still have a supplementary question to the Secretary of State. I don't know if he can answer that now or maybe in second term. It has been agreed that we would transfer matters politically neutrally, and in the current law we already have a public instrument to implement this. In that sense, therefore, this amendment is nothing more and nothing less, and even a little tighter within the framework than what it was. I am therefore somewhat surprised that the Secretary of State says it should be more specific. Then I say, "Why?" Now that's not the case, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u64	First of all, for the record, there should be nothing at all, because it is an amendment from the Chamber, and I reflect on that. That's just for relationships. I should just like to warn against the fact that, by making it insufficiently specific and insufficiently limiting the domains, you are giving a great deal of space to a judge to assess what is and is not within that framework. That could be a conscious choice. Again, I will deal with the appreciation of the amendment later, but this is an initial observation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u65	Perhaps it is right that I should answer that it is indeed the intention to give that space. We have faith in the local authorities. To date, it has not caused any problems either. We do not really see why we should take one step at a time to tighten those conditions. But I listened carefully to the Secretary of State: it is up to us to take a good look at that. We will see what the exact appreciation of the amendment will be.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u66	As a result, we do not understand this either. Right now, it's possible. I think a handful of municipalities use that. The amendment sets out much more than is currently customary; it gives much wider possibilities to the municipalities. Should I understand the Secretary of State in such a way that he states: delete all the conditions that are in it, because they are not there now, and then it is possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u67	No, that wasn't the port of my comment. What is ultimately at stake here is what is reasonable and what is not. That's a political question. I think you can entrust it to a piece of law. It may also be that it is deliberately chosen not to do so, on the basis of confidence in competent authorities and the administrative judge Mr Ronnes has just confirmed that, but with that you have to put it in part there. That is an observation. If the proposers want something else, they could perhaps be more specific in some respects, but I do not argue for the deletion of all these conditions, because that balance between public and private interests is, in my view, going in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u68	I very much wonder, because as we understand it, these conditions are not there at the moment and they are working fine, but that may be something more for the second term. I have a follow-up question, also in response to a remark made by the Secretary of State and to which Mr Ronnes also referred. The idea of the Environment Act is that we transfer things policy-neutrally. It is clear that a number of things in this Supplementary Act are not politically neutral. There are deadlines; a number of amendments have been tabled. There is no question of self-realization at the moment. A new element is added. Could the Secretary of State explain why this particular bill chose not to go for policy neutral but to make some policy adjustments?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u69	This is a bit of a semantic discussion, because if you were to define "policy neutral" as "lock, stock and barrel all over the new legislation," then you are right. I think that the very moment you come to an Environment Act that includes the compilation of all kinds of underlying laws, you also immediately look where it can be done better and where it can be done differently. The legislative power always has that possibility. The world does not stand still and the legislator can always come to different policy choices on the basis of new insights and experiences. The fact that the approach is policy neutral does not mean that you cannot take the opportunity to improve a number of things. I think that is also at the heart of the political debate here. Mr Smeulders, as the representative of GroenLinks, has put forward proposals for this and the SP has put forward proposals for this. I would almost say that you see the ideological feathers of the various parties, including from the past, coming back on the balance between the right of property and the public interest. That's the beauty of it, but it's not static. It can always be modified.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u70	Mr Smeulders, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u71	Yeah, rounding it up. I think this is the essence of what we are talking about tonight, because the starting point for the Environment Act, which we as GroenLinks are very critical about, is deregulation, less rules. It has to be made easier, but it has been said by all the cabinet members who come here to talk about the Environment Act: it will be simpler, but it will not be at the expense of the relationship between government and the market. We simply see tonight that there is a legislative proposal in which, on a number of points, the government simply loses its position and the market gets more position. Self-realisation is an example, but I also mention the extension of deadlines, so that the market can last longer and the government is less long. Can the Secretary of State explain why, specifically for this bill, the line is not actually being followed, at least with all the other legislative proposals under the Environment Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u72	I was just talking about the public enforcement of the financial contribution. I would almost say that this proposal can never be seen as more power for the market. Perhaps it is not policy-neutral, but why should the Chamber and the Cabinet moderate in advance to put forward good proposals that improve, in this case, the Land Property Supplementary Act? I think it is very good that, at a time when the challenges are becoming more complex, the challenges are getting bigger and the political issues may become more diverse: nature, dikes, windmills, nitrogen, etc. I do not see any shock in this, but the proposal which Mr Smeulders is now interrupting is, in my view, a proposal which he has party political sympathy for, because otherwise he would not have said that he thinks this is a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u73	Mr Smeulders, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u74	I do need to clarify this. What the cabinet does is give much more space to the market. What the Chamber is doing today with the amendments is trying to take back that space for the government,...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u75	I feel a repeat here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u76	... so it becomes more politically neutral. What the Secretary of State is now pretending...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u77	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u78	Mr Secretary of State, is it true that you are now making it appear that the cabinet is proposing something that is politically neutral and that the government does not lose a position and the market does not get a more position? Because I believe that is the case with the proposals made by the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u79	One: the law is not a law until the Chamber has discussed it and amended it. So I think this is just part of the debate. This is always the case; at least, in this case, the government comes up with a proposal and the Chamber discusses it and tells us where to do it a little differently. That's the point. So there is a lot of discussion about whether or not it is neutral. I think "neutral" is a very complicated concept. Is neutral copying exactly the same? No, it's not. But it's about balance. That balance is crucial, as I have just tried to point out. You have to weigh that well. I think the cabinet is the same as a large part of the Chamber. With one proposal, the net can be different from the other. I have just said that I am at least pleased that, from its conviction and political background, the Chamber is presenting amendments with alternative proposals. On behalf of the cabinet, I will make a final assessment in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u80	Thank you. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u81	Mr Bishop asked me whether I would stick to a voluntary financial contribution and whether I would stay away from payment planning. That's almost a rhetorical question, because nobody's into pay-planology. Our approach is that there are plenty of opportunities for cost stories. In addition, voluntary contribution to the development of areas can be contracted. Payment planology is not permitted under the Environmental Act. In my view, the advantage of an arrangement whereby private law agreements are made is that there can be tailor-made work, so when it can actually be done in the business case. Let me say again that I understand that there is a need for a stick behind the door in case private negotiations fail. This contribution can then still be enforced by public law. In fact, I see possibilities there for Mr Oomen-Ruijten there already sounds some sympathy for the amendment, but I think that there should be sufficient demarcation to avoid asking for unreasonable amounts. In my opinion, this also requires a careful process. Mr Bishop was wondering why there was suddenly an added value for the continuation of Article 6.24 of the Wro. That's about the private contribution. Conversations with municipalities, provinces and the VNG showed that there is a strong need to continue the scheme, especially in view of the enormous and increasingly complex tasks that have been given to municipalities, and to prevent municipalities from having to bear only the costs of municipal development. Recent research commissioned by the VNG and the Ministry confirms the need to continue this article. I'm just gonna head over to the social store. Mr Van Gerven asked why that category was deleted. The question was whether, partly as a result of the investigation, there would also be an alternative. Municipalities make limited use of the category of social purchase. For this reason, it was no longer included in the laws and regulations at the time. Therefore, Platform31 currently conducts research into this social category. The preliminary conclusions show that there is indeed a need for this. The report will be sent to you this year. Partly after consultation with the VNG, the category has been added to the Supplementary Land Property Act. I'll send it to you after this bill has been dealt with through the front wall, via AMvB. Mr Smeulders has asked why a legal ground for refusal in organic development is not desirable. Developments are made possible in the environmental plan, and the financial feasibility and possible shortcomings of the developments are also taken into account. A municipality may choose to include in the environmental plan a ground for refusal if there is a deficit that is not foreseen in the establishment of the environmental plan. That choice is up to the municipality. The inclusion of a legal ground for refusal is contrary to the idea of the Environment Act to give policy freedom. The regulation of such a ground for refusal in the environmental plan should be used with caution in exceptional situations, and in our opinion municipalities are well placed to make that assessment. Mr Smeulders can probably only confirm that. Mr Kops wondered whether the cost-types list for cost-story would now be adapted to topics such as energy transition, climate adaptation and mobility. The cost-types list is not in this bill. It will be re-established by the Land Property Act supplementing the Land Property Act, which will enter into the pending procedure in the autumn. Then we can have the conversation about that. However, it is important to note that all designated costs must be attributable to the area where the construction activities are carried out. That is also an important limitation for the story of those costs. Mr Smeulders wondered whether municipalities should not be able to decide on interim final accounts once a year in order to prevent them from doing so on a daily basis. The legislative proposal provides for initiators to request an interim final statement five years after payment. This prevents an initiator from having to wait too long for the complete final settlement. Because, of course, we don't want that either. In the interests of efficient processing of applications, it may be beneficial to combine them. Whatever time limit you have to use, is again a question of the balance between efficiency for the municipality and the interest of the initiator who gets a final bill. I don't think it's an unsympathetic idea, but this is also a matter of weighing interests. Mrs Van Eijs wondered whether municipalities could use the amounts collected flexibly in organic area development. The answer is that it can be done. The cost ceiling also offers that flexibility. Municipalities can use collected contributions for public services that are currently appropriate to the development of the territory. If an amount has been collected in accordance with a given development scenario for example for a bypass, but that development scenario would change, the municipality may also spend the costs differently, for example on a bus or tramway. So there is quite a bit of flexibility in this, but it also has to be accounted for, of course. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come to the alternative funding. Mr Nijboer asked two questions about this. When will there be an answer to Mr Nijboer's motion on the benefits of planning? The report on this subject will be sent to the Chamber shortly. The government wants to include this report in the discussion on alternative funding. The study group's report on alternative funding will be presented to the Chamber at the beginning of 2020. This study group is carrying out a wide-ranging study of the possibilities to contribute to territorial development from the benefits generated by investment in public facilities. In addition, Mr Nijboer asked me how I look at the demand to exploit private revenues generated by public investment. This question has also been asked by the cabinet itself. Indeed, it is true that many parties benefit from public investment. You could say "you're lucky," but here too, it's the weighting between public investments, and the public resources involved, and the proceeds that then fall down on private parties. An official study group has therefore been set up. The main question for this study group is: what real options are there to use benefits generated by public investment to finance the tasks in the spatial domain? I am looking at all the benefits that can be achieved and at those who benefit from it. So the whole domain and all the options are on the table. I expect the Chamber to receive the report from this study group at the beginning of next year. Then we'll get to the landscaping. Mr Bishop wondered whether I would be willing to look with experts and interest groups to see how we could best link the land-use instrument to the practice. The implementation of the land establishment is a provincial responsibility. The linking of the layout tools to the spatial planning procedures is part of the territorial policy pursued by the provinces. On the basis of this proposal, this can be done in its entirety and in coordination with spatial planning procedures. This bill has been prepared in extensive consultation and coordination with experts from the land planning practice. I will bring to the attention of the provinces your request to consider the connection of the land-use instrument to the practice. Mrs Regterschot wondered whether the exchange of lots between the city and the country of The Hague and Landgraaf... would not lead to an infringement of the landscape. Shouldn't this be secured in the law? That does not need to be guaranteed in this supplement law, because the municipality already guarantees this through the rules in the environmental plan. With this a municipality records all functions, for example nature, living or retail. The environmental plan thus forms the framework within which lot exchange can take place. Mrs Regterschot suggested some sort of hybrid model. It lacked opportunities to start voluntary lot exchange and, if necessary, enforce land consolidation. This possibility exists only for the rural area. Parties may initiate a voluntary lot exchange and the Province may facilitate this if this contributes to the objectives pursued by the Province in the rural area. If that voluntary variant does not succeed, the Province may take the initiative and adopt an establishment programme and an establishment decision with mandatory land consolidation. Urban lot exchange is always voluntary. Mrs Van Eijs also had a number of questions about this urban land consolidation. First of all, she wondered whether it would not be possible to set up the same system as the business investment zones for urban land consolidation. This would mean that there would be an arrangement whereby the government could decide to force urban land consolidation if a majority of the owners were in favour of it. However, there is a big difference between a decision on a relatively small charge and a decision on a transfer of ownership, which may also pose financial risks for owners. I am therefore not in favour of forcing urban land consolidation. She also wondered whether I could indicate how compulsory land consolidation would be included in the further investigation. The research I have just discussed sets out all the advantages and disadvantages of mandatory urban land consolidation and makes a comparison between forcing urban land consolidation and voluntary urban lot exchange with expropriation. Finally, she asked if I could promise that there will be a quick reaction to the Chamber once the investigation into compulsory re-location has been completed, even before the law enters into force. I can answer that question with yes. Mr Bishop wondered whether it would be better to delete the requirement for improvement in Article 12.47. It can be assumed that parties will not enter into voluntary lot exchange if the final outcome is not better. That makes sense in itself. The improvement requirement is already in the National Land Planning Act. The review of that law has not shown that the need for improvement is currently causing problems. The cabinet attaches importance to policy neutrality in the transition from the current rules to the Environment Act. We do not therefore see any need for this. Then we get to the last block. These are the questions put by Mr Ronnes and Mr Smeulders on the right of preference. The question was whether the period within which a right of preference could not be reestablished should be three instead of two years. This question is also the basis of Mr Smeulder's amendment. Since the right of preference may eventually rest on a plot for more than sixteen years, it has also been considered possible to strengthen the owner's position. Sixteen years is, of course, a very long time. I think it is reasonable for the deadline to be extended so that the owner knows a substantial period of time when the right of preference is not reestablished. That has led to this extension. Moreover, this period only applies if the right of preference is established on exactly the same basis, as twice in succession on the basis of the environmental plan. If, after the expiry, a new right of preference is established on the basis of a new development included, for example, in the environmental vision, that period does not apply. This applies only to the same basis. I can also imagine that the deadline will be reduced. So this isn't a big deal. It is, in a sense, a somewhat arbitrary decision. Mrs Regterschot and Mr Bishop asked why the environmental plan did not opt for a five-year right of preference, possibly to be extended by five years, instead of the ten years which also apply in the current law. For many developments a preferential right of five years is too short, for some not. But for the more complex, which we are talking about now, that is often the issue. In the environmental plans that allow for developments, a period of more than five years is often employed. A five-year period with a separate five-year extension will create additional burdens for the public authorities. That's just true. But this also applies: how do the interests relate to each other? I can imagine that the variant proposed by Mrs Regterschot would also be acceptable. Mr Ronnes and Mr Smeulders wondered why the municipality had only one year to adopt a new amendment after the destruction of the environmental plan. They both argued that this could be on the short side. The one-year deadline strikes a balance between the protection of the owner and the interest of the government. Once again, therefore, there is a weighting in order not to lose the right of preference. The owner should not be charged with a preferential right for longer than necessary and the municipality should have time to fix a destroyed decision. The one-year repair period is in line with the period of repair set by the Administrative Court of the Council of State in relation to zoning plans. You could compare that. Mr Ronnes came up with some kind of compromise or at least a suggestion to do it differently. He said, maybe two years is a little long and a year short. You'd say it would be a year and a half, but it wasn't. He came up with something else. He proposed that the power to extend the period of validity be conferred on the court. With regard to the remedying of a defect, I think that's a complicated test for the judge. In practice, an extension of the time limit for remedying a defect is hardly ever applied by a court. There are actually three options: one year, two years or the judge. The latter option may seem sympathetic, but in practice it is not actually applied. So it is still choosing between the other options. Mr. Chairman. It's 10:00. I think I answered the questions in the first place. If that is not the case, I would be glad to hear it, because I will be able to answer them in the second term. I shall also deal with the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u82	Fine, thank you for your first term, Secretary of State. That brings us to the second term of office. First of all, I give the floor to Mrs Regterschot for her second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u83	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank you all for all the congratulations you have just given me. I would also like to thank and congratulate the Secretary of State for observing and answering all our questions so acutely. In this technical discussion on the Supplementary Act, he was able to do so for us. I share the position on the balance sheet in the Supplementary Act as outlined by the Secretary of State. On the one hand, it is a question of protecting property, on the other hand, it is a question of enabling local authorities to develop. In it, we have to keep looking together for where we are and how we balance this with each other. The VVD is reassured by the reply of the State Secretary on self-realization. I indicated in the first term that we are in favour of this. After hearing the deadlines of the fellow spokesmen, you may ask whether this does not affect a certain degree of development that the municipality wishes to foresee. Because it is secured and because it looks carefully at the possibilities that an owner has at all to give it its own content, we can move forward with this. The starting point was indeed to do it policy-neutrally, but if there is room for improvement, of course we are in favour of it. The VVD is also satisfied with the position on urban land consolidation, and then on the mandatory variant. Once again, it is confirmed that this is not included in the law in this way. I would like to close my second term with the message that I look forward to the progress letter on the Environment Act, and in particular on the digital system. There are still a number of questions in the Chamber about this. And we'd better get out of here and get packing night. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u84	Thank you. I think we all agree with that. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Gerven of the SP for his second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u85	Mr. Chairman. First of all, thank you to the Secretary of State for replying. That was relatively fluent, if I may put it that way. That's good. He was pretty clear in his response. But I couldn't help but notice that he's a certain laconism, isn't that a good term? Oh, yeah, yeah, Well, he was pretty laconic over the five or ten years, or those one or two years. It's a weighting you have to make. But I think it is important to look closely at the public interest. If there's anything we can do, we've got to avoid lawyering, so if the weighting is relative, you still have to go to the lawyer to prove things. I think we should avoid that at all costs. Maybe we can dot a few more points in the second term. Then the element of the social purchase. I had a motion ready. I'll just read the operative part. I'm not filing the motion, but this is just for check. In the operative part, I said: "Ask the government to include alternatives to social buying in the bill or in lower regulation if it appears that the concept of social buying is not sufficiently effective." I understand that this is the conclusion of the investigation and that this is indeed going to happen. So that's good. As a result, I am not going to go into this in the first place, but I would like to ask you again to confirm whether this also applies to the social housing. Is this category also well secured in the supplementary laws and regulations? That's it, Mr. Chairman, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u86	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Ronnes of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u87	Mr. Chairman. First of all, thanks to the Secretary of State for the comprehensive reply. Even though he's replacing the minister today, I thought he was very good at it. I would like to take back three points from the first period, starting with self-realization. The Secretary of State states that there is a guarantee that more speed can be made if it turns out that expropriation is needed. Would the Secretary of State wish to ensure that the evaluation of the Environment Act focuses specifically on this point and that it is carefully examined what experience has been gained from it? Maybe there have already been experiments in the country. I don't know, but that would be a reason to bring them forward. Otherwise it would have to be sharpened if the law had worked for some time. Then repairing one to two years. The Secretary of State indicated that my suggestion of the compromise to allow it to be decided by judge is not really workable. In practice, if an environmental plan dies, ecological research may have to be re-examined. If that happens in the wrong period of the year, it can have such a long lead time before you have a result that it runs over that year. We say: perhaps that is why you should strive for two years. I believe that the amendment tabled by Smeulders van GroenLinks is also watching this. I would like to think about giving support to that, perhaps. Finally, I come to the cost story. I believe that the objectives we have with each other are not very far apart and are mainly about the legal anchoring: how do you put it? I am quite prepared to take another look at the technical wording with the co-subscribers. It is our objective to place it as a tool in local government. That objective must be maintained. It must also be in line with the current functioning of the scheme. Should it be necessary, I would like to ask the Secretary of State if we could have technical consultations with the Ministry between now and the vote, to see if we can strengthen or improve with that amendment. So much for my second term, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u88	Thank you, Mr. Ronnes. I give the floor to Mr Smeulders van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u89	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by congratulating the Secretary of State for the way in which he perceives the Minister. Handsome, on such short notice. Then to the content. I didn't really get a super-reliant feeling from this debate. We had the impression that the Environment Act would be a policy-neutral operation. In every debate we have here on the Environment Act, I say: it is mainly deregulating. The Minister then says every time: no, it is not deregulating but policy neutral. The Secretary of State now states on behalf of the Minister that it is indeed not policy-neutral. Mr Ronnes of the CDA also noted that a number of choices were being made. I find that complicated, especially when I see that the choices that are being made all have as a line: less position for the government, more for the market. I wonder very much if we should go that way with each other. I would like to mention one specific example. I'm going to read it to you because it listens very closely. It's about self-realization. This was sent to us by the Vereniging van Nederlandse Gemeenten (Vereniging van Nederlandse Gemeenten), by all municipalities together with left-wing municipalities, right-wing municipalities, large and small municipalities. I want to take that very seriously, because it's about their position. They write the following. "The municipality wants to play the leading role and be able to use the right of preference to prevent fragmentation of developments and to realise a more efficient plan. A self-realizer can only realize on that one lot. Unlike expropriation, it is self-realization by the future buyer, not by the owner. Is the new buyer indeed going to realize quickly or will he often sell the land again for a higher price......................................................................................................................................................................... The right of preference in relation to selfrealization plus the combination that sales can take place without prior consent allows speculation and is thus contrary to the intention of the law. This is not about hindering good developers or owners, but about freeriders and speculators." You know, we don't like them. "The municipal decision not to use the right of preference is open to appeal, appeal and appeal. This can lead to major delays and financial damage," says the municipalities. I think this is a very serious cry of hearts which we as a Chamber should take seriously. I hope the Cabinet will, too. "Selfrealization" sounds incredibly likeable, but it is not possible at the moment. I really do not see where the problem is being solved by making it possible now. I would therefore ask the Secretary of State to go into that again. In reply to the question of nature and expropriation, I understand what he's saying. On the other hand, however, we do have an exceptional situation with the PAS. So we are still going to talk to nature organisations to see whether we might not be able to come up with an amendment before the vote to make it easier to realize nature. We'll get back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u90	You have already tabled a number of amendments, so we look forward to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u91	That's right!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u92	Mrs Van Eijs of D66 for her second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u93	Mr. Chairman. We would also like to thank the Secretary of State for the answers to these rather difficult, legal, technical issues. I think that the Secretary of State did indeed put it well: it is about the balance between making things possible on the one hand that we all wish for and on the other hand the interest of the owner of the property. I welcome the Secretary of State's commitment to the investigation of compulsory urban rehabilitation, namely the commitment that a response will be given to the Chamber as soon as possible once that investigation has been carried out. But I also hear the Secretary of State say very clearly that we are not going to do it or that we are not going to do it. Then my question is: are the options still open? Is there even an open attitude towards what comes out of the investigation? I'd like to get some reassurance on that. There's an open-minded view of what's coming out of the investigation, isn't there? The second point concerns self-realization. The Secretary of State states the following. Municipalities can play their part in that. They may impose restrictions in the environmental plan in periods. That makes sure that those who want to do so themselves are bound by it. But I was wondering how this would be done in the case of organic development, where, for example, no period is determined. Then how are you gonna get that development going? It is good to hear that there is more room in the use of these funds in the field of organic area development and cost story than we initially thought. We have, of course, also tabled an amendment on this. I think it's really very useful to put that in the law, so that people know that space is there. Then it is also clear to all parties that the municipality can ultimately do what is necessary and not so much what was previously laid down, because a smart government in these changing times is desperately needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u94	Thank you. The Minister... Or no, the Secretary of State! In a debate like this, sometimes you get confused. The Secretary of State has indicated that he needs about 15 minutes to prepare for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u95	I will give the floor to the Secretary of State for his second term. A number of questions have been asked and he also appreciates the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u96	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the members of the Chamber for their contribution in second term. Thank you also to Mrs Regterschot for the support she expressed directly in her first debate for the line that has been used. I will get to the amendments in a moment, but I will also go into the questions that Members have asked. I'll do it on speaker order. Mr Van Gerven wondered whether the housing category social rental would also be continued in the implementing scheme. The answer to that is yes. Mr Ronnes asked whether the evaluation of the Environment Act also looked at self-realisation and how it was being implemented, especially because there was a whole debate on it. I can make a full commitment to take that away. I also welcome the fact that, on the basis of the assumptions made here from different sides, we are actually looking at what is lacking. That is also the quality of legislation. If it's not right, we need to adjust it. Perhaps, on the basis of Mr Ronnes's amendment, I can take part in this. 23, which I'm about to come up with, take another misunderstanding away. Mr Ronnes felt that contracts could also be concluded within the current framework of the Regional Planning Act on contributions to spatial development. But that is only voluntary, I say to him, so that cannot be enforced. In that sense, the transfer is really politically neutral. If these contributions are made publicly enforceable, which is now Mr Ronnes' proposal, then that is a new element in the regulation, because that possibility does not yet exist. That's exactly why I said I liked a good demarcation. I will come back to the suggestion made by Mr Ronnes on this point when we assess the amendment. Mr Smeulders asked about policy neutrality. That is perhaps a point to take up, because now that I am entering this debate, I realize that this is a discussion that has been going on for some time now in the process of dealing with the Environment Act and the laws that are part of it. In the system change we are now talking about the Supplementary Land Property Act section, the starting point has always been that there would be an equivalent level of protection, as there is now. That is the starting point for this whole reform of the system. "Equal" therefore means that the level of legal protection is maintained. Sometimes that happens with the same instruments as now. For example, existing instruments are harmonised and simplified where possible. They are also aligned with the new instruments in the Environment Act. "Equal" however does not mean that everything remains as it is. For example, the course of justice changes in the event of expropriation. This is another way of regulating, but with a similar result. Finally, there are a limited number of new issues, such as the voluntary urban lot exchange, but also cost story in organic area development. So these are new elements, but in themselves they do not change the balance sheet, which has been discussed earlier, and policy neutrality. The proposal contains a modernised set of instruments for the tasks of the future. I note that Mr Smeulders has doubts as to whether he can support this bill. His assumption is that it will be more market and less government. That's just how I heard him say it. I would also like to mention a number of examples where it is clear that the public authorities will also be given more resources, such as cost stories in organic area development and a faster expropriation procedure. These are, after all, instruments in favour of the general interest in which the public authorities can play a role. The municipality can also decide on its own expropriation. In order for GroenLinks to be able to make a good weight later on, I would like to give this further consideration to Mr Smeulders. Mrs Van Eijs asked if I would be open to the outcome of the investigation into the mandatory urban lot exchange. In reply to her earlier question, I indicated that I do not think it is necessary to do so now, but of course I am well, I; the Minister will be open to the results of this. So we're looking at that with an open eye. I shall now turn to the amendments, first of all to Mrs Smeulder's amendment to item No. 9, which sees that the period within which a preferential right cannot be reestablished is reduced from three to two years. We just had a debate on that. Because the right of preference can eventually rest on a plot for more than sixteen years, the possibilities to strengthen the owner's position have been considered. Therefore, that time limit for the re-establishment of a preferential right has been extended from two to three years, so that that owner knows for a longer period that the right of preference is not re-established. But the choice between two and three years is, as I have just said, relatively arbitrary in some sense. I can therefore leave the opinion on this amendment to the House.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u97	The amendment in part No. 9: Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u98	Then there is the amendment to item No. 10 by Mr Smeulders. It extends from one year to two years the period during which the right of preference is still valid after destruction. Because the right of preference can eventually rest on a plot for more than 16 years, it has been looked at possibilities to strengthen the owner's position; I said it just now. Reducing the current deadline after destruction of, for example, an environmental plan from two to one year should also be seen in that perspective. With a period of one year, the balance is found between the protection of the owner and the interest of the government. The owner should not remain in charge of a preferential right for longer than necessary, especially after the destruction of an environmental plan. The municipality must also have time to fix a destroyed decision. The one-year repair period is in line with the period of repair used by the Administrative Court Division, as I mentioned earlier. It should normally be possible to remedy the defect within that period. I do not see sufficient reason to deviate from this current repair period for the right of preference, and I therefore advise against the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u99	The amendment in part No. 10 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u100	Then there is Mr Smeulders' amendment to item No. 11, which sees that the exception to the obligation to offer the right of preference in the event of a person's willingness and ability to implement the plan itself is deleted. If a development is realised by someone other than the municipality, there is nothing against it in itself. It is ultimately a question of whether the public interest is served. By the way, you can't just rely on self-realization. The bill makes clear demands on this resale. The speculation that Mr Smeulders talked about, quoting the letter from the UNG, often occurs before an environmental plan has been established. That's usually the hallmark of speculation: people anticipate things that might happen. If the environmental plan is established, the buyer must carry out that activity within the framework of the environmental plan. I know the objections of the municipalities, but I think that municipalities have plenty of opportunities left, so I have to discourage that amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u101	The amendment in part No. 11 is not recommended. There is a question by Mr Smeulders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u102	I sincerely regret that, also because I think this is perhaps the most important amendment before us today. Could the Secretary of State indicate why this was not included in the version that went into internet consultation at all? Why is this passage, which we are trying to get out of it now, not included in the bill until after the Internet consultation as some sort of bum-out-of-a-box?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u103	I cannot, Mr President, at least not at the moment. I'm gonna have to check that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u104	Is it possible for the Secretary of State to respond in writing?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u105	I'm fine with that. This is a very important point for us. I understand that the Secretary of State is defending what is now going on, but that is not superlogical, because the cabinet itself had not proposed this either at first. The cabinet did not include this in the proposal until after the internet consultation. We therefore consider it important to know on the basis of which arguments and whose input this has ultimately been included in the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u106	The Secretary of State nods and points out that at least before the votes there will be a response to your question. The Secretary of State himself is, of course, concerned with his own answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u107	You have summarised it very well, Mr President. Thank you. Then there is the amendment to item No. 18, also by Mr Smeulders, in which he proposed to apply a derogation from the requirement that, without the consent of the owner, no change can be made to his rights in respect of buildings if those buildings are included in an expropriation decision. This amendment regulates what is already possible on the basis of the legislative proposal. In the new system, too, expropriation is possible in the interests of land-use. So it's already settled, but I don't have a problem with this explication. So I leave the judgment to the Chamber. And Mr Smeulders is opposed to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u108	No. It is interesting, because I had withdrawn this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u109	Oh, okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u110	But if the Secretary of State doesn't mind, I can just file it again. But as far as I'm concerned, you don't have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u111	No, you've already formally withdrawn it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u112	I didn't have all the numbers ready, sorry. You've withdrawn him, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u113	Yes. And I share the Secretary of State's analysis that it has little added value.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u114	Is it true that there is also an amendment to item No. 12 is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u115	There isn't any more.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u116	There isn't any more. Well, then we'll soon forget about that amendment. Then the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u117	The amendment in part No. 18 goes away. Then there is the amendment to item No. 20 of Mr Regterschot, Mr Ronnes and Mr Van Eijs, in which they propose that the ten-year permanent establishment be cut. It is indeed a long period, as I have indicated. This amendment still offers the opportunity to do ten years, but with an interim cut and a re-evaluation. This leads to an increase in the administrative burden, but this has to be weighed again. All in all, I can leave the opinion on this amendment to the House.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u118	The amendment in part No. 20 gets judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u119	Then there is the amendment to item No. 21 by Mr Smeulders, whose aim is to enable owners and limited beneficiaries, instead of all interested parties, to avail themselves of self-realization in order to prevent expropriation. This amendment stipulates that in some cases self-realization cannot be called upon, i.e. a limitation of self-realization. It is already the case that, in particular, owners call upon the courts to achieve self-realisation, but also landowners must be able to rely on self-realisation. I am therefore not in favour of limiting the use of self-realisation to owners and limited beneficiaries. The second part of the amendment also deals with the consequences of a long-term standstill of an owner after a successful appeal to self-realisation defence. What is too long for Mr Smeulders is that for three years now, as he said to Mr Smeulder, you must be able to determine. This is only the case with a decision of an administrative body or a judgment of the court, but not if it has not taken a decision. If that is not established, the owner has insufficient legal certainty, for example when the three-year period starts. I must therefore discourage the amendment in this form, but perhaps Mr Smeulders is prepared to amend it. That could lead to a different judgment, but this is how I must discourage it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u120	The amendment in part No. 21 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u121	Then there is the amendment to item No. 22, also by Mr Smeulders. He's been extremely productive. That's about the final bill, doing it every year at one time. As with the Regterschot and others amendment, this is a question of weighing interests. This amendment aims to reduce the administrative burden of the municipality while at the same time ensuring that stakeholders have to wait longer for the final settlement. It's not a very serious point for the cabinet, so I'll leave it to the Chamber to decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u122	The amendment in part No. 22 gets judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u123	Then there is the amendment to item No. 24, including Mr Smeulders. This amendment proposes that municipalities should be able to refuse an environmental permit if the municipality is in financial deficit by granting that permit. Developments are made possible in an environmental plan. The financial feasibility and possible deficits must also be taken into account. The municipality may choose to include a ground for refusal in the environmental plan if a deficit occurs. That choice is up to the municipality and it should lie there in our opinion. The inclusion of a legal ground for refusal would be unreasonable, as developments could always be refused. Especially in the case of organic area developments, developing parties should be able to rely on the possibilities offered by the environmental plan and a legal ground for refusal is contrary to that. So this amendment actually limits the flexibility we want, so I have to advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u124	The amendment in part No. 24 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u125	We shall then come to the amendment on item No. 25, by Mr Van Gerven. That amendment proposes that, after a successful self-realisation defence in the event of expropriation, the owner should be obliged to take care of self-realization in good time. Mr Van Gerven wants a penalty in the form of a penalty payment if the self-realizer does not start within two years. However, the explanation of the amendment does not seek to impose a sanction on expropriation but on a right of preference. The article itself and its explanatory statement are legally contradictory, so I must advise against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u126	Amendment No 25 is not recommended. There is a question from Mr Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u127	The question remains whether the Secretary of State can live with the explanatory statement, because that is the intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u128	It concerns both the article itself and the explanatory statement. In any case, they must not contradict each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u129	But I suspect that Mr Van Gerven will say: if the explanatory statement is correct, then perhaps I will amend the amendment myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u130	Of course, but of course it's about intention. The Secretary of State says it's technically incorrect, but I'd like a substantive opinion from the Secretary of State. If he understands the meaning of the explanatory statement and can live with it, then of course we are happy to amend the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u131	Unfortunately, this is not the case in this case, because this amendment affects the right of ownership as laid down in Article 1 of the ECHR. So apart from the legal contradiction between explanatory memorandum and article, there is also a substantive objection. Of course we can talk about this, but it is not just a editorial point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u132	Amendment No 25 continues to dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u133	In Amendment No. 26 proposes that Mr Van Gerven designate activities for which rules on financial contributions can be included in the environmental plan by general administrative measure. That amendment goes a bit in the same direction as the Ronnes and others amendment. I will come back to that in a moment, but if I have to choose between the two amendments, then I have to advise against them and I could give a different opinion on Mr Ronnes' amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u134	Amendment No 26 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u135	That is also in the definition, which I had a debate on with Mr Ronnes, and the fact that a very broad application is being proposed here that disturbs that balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u136	I understand that the Secretary of State is now referring to Amendment No. 26. On the contrary, I have put it very broadly. I thought that was useful, because you don't want to frame it very much; you want to leave some space. But it's the other way around, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u137	Perhaps I could make a little bridge to Amendment No. 29 by Mr Ronnes. That is also the subject of this debate. Mr Ronnes has just said that he is prepared to take a look at it, and I agree with the co-sponsors in order to tighten up his amendment in legal terms and clarify points. He wants to discuss this. I would like to invite Mr Van Gerven to join us, provided that Mr Ronnes does not object, because then it will be complicated, but I do not think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u138	We are looking at Mr Van Gerven with great tension.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u139	I am only listening to the debate on the explanatory statement to Amendment No 2. 29.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u140	But Amendment No. In any case, 26 is not recommended in this form. The same applies to Amendment No 2. 29 in this form.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u141	I'd like to take it a little more positively. I would not like to pass the judgment, because I would indeed advise against it in this form. The idea behind the amendment is extremely sympathetic. We can support them on our own, but as I indicated earlier, you don't want the judge to have to weigh in on this right away. We should be able to see whether, in some sense, it can be better delimited, also in order to avoid unreasonably high amounts being demanded in the end. I understand from Mr Ronnes' reaction that this is not his intention. So I think a good conversation is in order. I invite Mr Van Gerven to join us, because this amendment contributes in the right direction to the balance that Mr Smeulders is also asking for, and you will see that I am trying to obtain the broadest possible majority in favour of this proposal. So I would like to approach that sympathetically, but there is still time to discuss it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u142	I understand what you are saying, but it is important, also for the Acts, that you at least say that you are referring to the amendment No. 29 in this form. But you have now expressed your hope that the amendment will be amended.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u143	That's right, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u144	The explanatory statement of the amendment does, of course, set out a number of conditions. In that sense, it is not an amendment that gives total freedom. However, I would like to return to the opening of the Secretary of State, who was perhaps trying to restore a lack of clarity, namely that nothing is regulated in the current law either. However, I would like to ask the Secretary of State to make the difference to Article 6.13, specifically paragraph 7 of the Wro clear before the consultation in the letter we receive. What about the operation of the present proposal? In my view, this is precisely an article that did in the old legislation what we intend to do in the new legislation. It would therefore help to clarify this from the Ministry. But I think it's too much to ask to do that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u145	Mr Ronnes has made a good assessment of that. So I can promise you that. The amendment in part No. We have had 29, so we have arrived at the amendment to item No. 27, member of Bishop. He proposed that the court should carry out full judicial review of expropriation rather than marginal review. I said earlier in the debate that I think that this is up to the judge himself and that that is the main rule of law. I do not think it is necessary to establish this further measure of scrutiny. I have to do the amendment in part No. 27, therefore, advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u146	The amendment in part No. 27 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u147	Then there is the amendment to item No. 28, by Van Eijs. It calls for the flexibility of municipalities to spend amounts collected on public services according to the organic development of the area concerned. Municipalities may use amounts collected for public facilities that are currently appropriate to the development of the territory. If the amount has been collected, for example for the bypass road I have indicated earlier, then this can also be applied to other cases. I believe that this amendment clarifies these possibilities. In this sense, this amendment is useful and I can leave it to the House to decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u148	The amendment in part No. 28 gets judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u149	I think we have dealt with all the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u150	I thank the Secretary of State. It is very nice that the Secretary of State has replaced the Minister in such a smooth manner, if I may speak on behalf of the Members of Parliament. Of course, that cannot be done without the fantastic staff and support on the right and elsewhere. Our thanks for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-22.u151	The vote on the legislative proposal and the amendments tabled will take place on Tuesday.
