ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-3.u1	I now give the floor to Mr Kwint on behalf of the SP for his question to the same Minister for Education on top salaries in Dutch public service broadcasting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you. We have a beautiful law in the Netherlands: the Wet norming top incomes. The SP would have allowed it to be a little stricter, but it should have ensured that no one who is paid with tax money earns more than the Prime Minister. Because no matter how responsible it is to present a talk show every night, it's still a little less important than running a whole country. So that 194.000 euros is 194,000 euros! If you can earn it, it should be enough to make a living. If we can believe De Telegraaf, not everyone at the Media Park feels that way. For example, Matthijs van Nieuwkerk would lose up to four tons if he were to bring his salary to the ministerial standard, and some kind of circumvention procedure through a production company has now been chosen. First of all, the question is: is that true? And right after that: what is the Minister going to do about this? He can't be surprised. Both his predecessor, Sander Dekker, and the minister were warned by the SP: do something about this now, because some people really don't want to get rid of that fat bag of taxpayers' money voluntarily. Yeah, no, complicated, tricky, we're not gonna do it. My proposal was voted down by D66, VVD, CDA and Christian Union. But what good is such a law if something is pushed around with jars and someone can still add half a million dollars to his account? Nothing at all. And if the self-appointed "unique talents" of the Mediapark think they need to earn more, then there is a simple solution: go to Talpa. It's supposed to have plenty of money. Public service broadcasting does not have that by shooter of successive cabinets. It needs to cut back and possibly fire people. It wouldn't be appropriate to pay that kind of salary. So the appeal to the minister is actually very simple. Make stricter rules. Make sure this treasure trove of taxpayers' money is finally brought to an end. Make exceptions as they still exist, impossible. Make shadowy avoidance structures impossible. Make it impossible to make more money with tax dollars than the Prime Minister. Stop "The World Grazing On"!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-3.u3	I shall now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mr. Chairman. Mr Kwint asks me if the news from De Telegraaf about Mr Van Nieuwkerk is correct. I have indeed taken note of this this weekend, and perhaps I myself had a bit of the same questions as Mr Kwint. And I don't think I'm alone in that. We've already asked BNNVARA. They have informed us that the report is incorrect, that there is no new salary structure for Mr Van Nieuwkerk. We'll just have to settle for the moment. I will ask the NPO, who is competent to monitor the remuneration framework, to look very specifically at this case and to inform me about it as soon as possible. That about, like, the news of the day. As you know, we are thinking in a broader sense about a new concession period and what changes should be made to the current situation. I'm thinking, too. I will, of course, inform you as soon as possible whether it is indeed possible to do additional things in order to prevent any circumventions that may occur. We know that agreements were made in 2017 that apply to all new situations, and therefore it is not possible to rise above them. They're slowly but surely declining. The latest state of affairs is that there are still five people who are covered, so that's just to use words like that, a death home construction. In any case, that world is not going crazy; it is going to stop once. But we will also think about the continuation of the new concession period, and then we can discuss it further at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-3.u5	Thank you for the answers. My first question would then be: how much does he make? Because I read in a response from BNNVARA that no extra euro tax money would go to Mr Van Nieuwkerk. And I know my pappenheimers at the Mediapark: when they are going to name them so specifically that there is no more tax money going, that usually means that money will be added via another construction. So I am very curious about the outcome: how much money will be made in the end? But the general point remains, of course, and the Minister is right to say that this standard can be avoided, especially through production companies. In this way we have no control over how much money some presenters can contribute. It was not for nothing that Sander Dekker said as early as 2017: every new remuneration framework will have to be critically tested on these so-called escape routes. My question to the Minister would therefore be: if a new concession period is to come, will measures really be taken to make these routes impossible? Are we sure and can we say with certainty that as of 2021 no one deserves more than this minister in public broadcasting, left or right, through all kinds of shady constructions or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-3.u6	It is not just possible to make all kinds of evasive movements to avoid current laws and regulations. We do know that we have limited the number of people who were above the WNT, and that very strict agreements have been made. We couldn't get to the existing situations where we don't know names. There are many things mentioned, but that is not how it works. We do know that this number is slowly but surely falling. I assume it will eventually go to zero. On what we are going to do in the new concession period, we can continue the debate once I have sent my vision letter to the Chamber. I hope this will happen in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-3.u7	Okay, then, closing up. At the moment it is still possible to make extra money through these constructions. There's a way to put an end to that. That possibility is called WNT3. This law has invented the previous cabinet to permanently move into the past in the public sector. This law has disappeared somewhere in a drawer due to Minister Plasterk and is therefore still somewhere in a ministry at the bottom of a drawer. Now I know that this minister has had bad experiences finding reports deep in drawers. That's where the gap in the public service budget came from. But if it doesn't succeed in dealing with these constructions in other ways, will he turn all those ministries upside down, dusting down Minister Plasterk's old WNT3 law and sending it to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-3.u8	I have just indicated when we are going to continue the debate towards the future. I look forward to having an exchange of views with Mr Kwint on what we are going to present to him. I hope he will take note of that with great agreement. In the current situation, the WNT is indeed valid, but also the revised Reward Framework is valid in the Public Broadcasting. BPPO is what we call it, in the abbreviation jargon. I'll see to that. I'll stick to it, too. People who go over that have a direct problem with me. But again, with regard to the case you called me to the Chamber, the coverage in De Telegraaf, BNNVARA has indicated that nothing has changed in this man's remuneration structure. So that message doesn't add up. I'll have that examined further.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-3.u9	Thank you, Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-3.u10	The minister says he's going to try to avoid circumvention. I honestly think that's crazy. We have agreed that a presenter at the Dutch Public Broadcasting does not deserve more than the Prime Minister. What the hell's gotten into a network director to hook up all kinds of phony constructions with those presenters just to make more money? We shouldn't want that, should we? I'm not waiting for some kind of cat-and-mouse game between Hilversum and The Hague.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-3.u11	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-3.u12	My question to the Minister concerns programme costs. Can we get it transparent? The only way to stop this kind of bullshit is to have transparency about programme costs, because at least then we really know what's going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-3.u13	Mr Aartsen knows that I am in the process of setting out new lines for the new concession period in the vision letter. These funding questions may indeed arise. There are different sides to that. You can also access it from the program side. I have already indicated that these funding questions will be part of it. In any case, I also have broad support from the VVD to do everything in my power to prevent us from having this kind of Question Time, moments or debates. In the past year, I've faced it a few times. I'm done with it once, too. It would be very nice if we could put an end to that for once.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-3.u14	But then it must be really clear and clear. The minister is now coming up with some sort of search page, with the answer: BNNVARA denies it. But what are they denying? Isn't it just a fact that this presenter is going to present College Tour and that this is being made by an external company, MediaLane? That's owned by Mrs. Van den Ende, daughter of, et cetera. It's just a fake construction. It's a mock construction being rigged. It's in the interests of the NPO. Can the Minister assure us by heart that the NPO, or any part of the NPO, the NTR or BNNVARA, does not cooperate in any way in making up and setting up this kind of thing?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-3.u15	The question why I was called here was about reporting in De Telegraaf that additional payments would be made for another new activity and that it would be large sums. We have informed BNNVARA and asked if this message is correct. The answer was: no, this message is not correct. Then at least that is the first part of an answer. If you ask and you get this answer, that's a given. You know, as well as I do, that we have placed the supervision of the salary frameworks and the way the remuneration frameworks work in practice at the NPO. My question to the NPO is therefore to look very closely at this case as soon as possible. I would, of course, like this to be confirmed, but we have to wait and see, because that is what we are going to do now. If I have more to say about this, I will, of course, do so to the Chamber as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-3.u16	We've asked for an overview before. Then we were told that 33 people within the NPO would fall above the norming Act top incomes. Those were presenters and others. I am pleased that this number has now returned so quickly. Can the Minister tell us what he thinks of that? How does he feel about the fact that when a broadcaster has to cut costs, people who earn top incomes well above the norming Act, who therefore earn more than the minister? What is the Minister's moral opinion on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-3.u17	During the Media budget discussions, we also discussed this. I think I was ready to go back then. I'm not okay with that. Indeed, I think we should get rid of this. I have just indicated that I am ready to go to the Chamber every time for questions of this kind and to have to give some sort of responsibility for an existing situation every time. Indeed, there has been intervention in 2017, fortunately, in which the people from the old situation continue for a while. Luckily, the number is getting smaller. We have to get rid of it, and as far as I'm concerned, as soon as possible. We are slowly but surely moving in the right direction. We know that the meat is sometimes weak, so we must also prevent attempts from being made through other angles. For this is indeed public money, which we spend on public service broadcasting and which we want public service broadcasting to function properly. This must be spent responsibly, also socially responsiblely.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-3.u18	And coming to the room isn't a punishment. It's a party, I always say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-3.u19	It is a celebration, but not always the subjects, I can tell you in all honesty, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-3.u20	There is a presenter who is going to present a new programme and earn two or three times as much as the Prime Minister. The Minister says, "I've had enough. He's not the only one. Everyone in the room has had enough. Outside the Room everyone has had enough of it, except at the Mediapark. The Minister has the resources in his hands. The Ministry has a law, WNT3, banning this kind of construction, this kind of gray behavior. That law's in a drawer over there. All the Minister has to do is open that drawer and send the law to the Chamber. I promise the Minister that it will be adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-3.u21	I know Mr Van Raak as a man who always chooses his words carefully. I have just indicated that after question BNNVARA indicated that the coverage is incorrect and that nothing changes in the salary structure with Mr Van Nieuwkerk. If you say he's gonna make four or five times more money, you're not gonna do it with information I gave to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-3.u22	I didn't say any of that!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-3.u23	Yes, you did say he's gonna make four, five times more. I have indicated that we will ask the NPO to apply the supervisory task, which we have also legally invested with them, as soon as possible. Then perhaps the facts will be extra clear or confirmed. We shall see; I cannot anticipate that. About what additional tools we need...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-3.u24	You'll get back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-3.u25	... I have indicated that, in the new concession period with regard to public service broadcasting, I will ensure that we do so in an orderly manner, at least with the support of the VVD, so that we do not continue to have this kind of debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-3.u26	Mr. Van Raak, you may correct something, but you may not ask a new question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-3.u27	The minister said I would have said this man would make four or five times as much. That's hardly possible, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-3.u28	You didn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-3.u29	I said this host will continue to earn two, three times as much as the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-3.u30	Then you've made your point right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-3.u31	We'll wait for the stenography report, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-tweedekamer-3.u32	That's right. Thank you.
