ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-4.u1	I now give the floor to Mr Hijink on behalf of the SP for his question on the increase in municipal insurance. The question is put to the Minister for Medical Care, whom I would like to welcome. Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-4.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The rising cost of care is an increasing problem for many people. We have our own risk of €385 per person. We have the care premium, which goes up again every year. A lot of people get into trouble because of this high cost. Now hundreds of thousands of people have a city policy. A city policy means that you took out a health insurance through your municipality. You'll get a discount from the insurance company. Often the municipality also makes a contribution. Thanks to that city policy, people can pay better for the care costs. But now there is a problem: the discount is partly disappearing and municipalities have also cut back on the money they are spending extra. This means that a lot of people who have such a policy have to turn in up to €100 per year. At the NIS, we were able to see what that means. This simply means that people have to choose between paying their bills for care or television subscription or their telephone subscription. For us, that is unacceptable. I want to know from the Minister what he's going to do to meet these people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-4.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, the discount given and mentioned by the speaker was often a discount preceded by a premium by the health insurance company. I don't think that's a good discount. That is why I wanted to reduce the so-called collectivity discount from 10% to 5%. Because I think that if a health insurance company offers a discount, it should have a relationship with the purchase. If you buy well, the insured, the citizen, must benefit from it. That shouldn't go through storage and then a discount. Mr Hijink also knows that, if he asks what the cabinet is doing, we will increase the healthcare allowance again for next year. There is also a certain purchasing power effect. That's one point. On the other hand, we are constantly working on reducing the growth of healthcare costs, including by means of broad-based agreements, i.e. excuse for the word "speak" and the focus on medicinal products prices. In addition, of course, there is also a role for the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-4.u5	The Minister is not answering my question at all. I asked him what he was going to do to accommodate these people, who are now going to pay up to €100 a year for their health insurance. The minister now points to the municipalities, and the municipalities point to this minister again. The alderman in Rotterdam says: the minister must deliver now. And what does the Minister say? "The city's gonna have to figure it out." But what good is that gonna do these people? How do they get the money to pay for their care? And I do understand, because it's the same every time. Every time we talk about the cost of care here with this minister or with other parties, it seems to be not so bad. If you have an income of more than a ton or if you swim in the waiting money, it might also be easy to talk about the €100 that you have to pay extra per year. But these people have the choice whether they can still watch television if they can still call or if they still have health insurance. I believe that this minister should not point to the municipalities, but should now come forward with proposals to meet these people. I ask him, what's he gonna do?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-4.u6	Indeed, I would not say that it is easy to cope with the annual growth in healthcare costs, not for anyone, not for people with a small grant specifically. That is why I made a point of raising the healthcare allowance for next year. That is why I made a point of the fact that we in the Netherlands have a beautiful, beautiful, comprehensive health insurance package and that it is worth fighting to ensure that good care remains at a reasonable price. In addition, the municipality policy is indeed a policy that is concluded by the municipality with the health insurance company. I therefore believe that the municipality, for example through special assistance, through a specific scheme or through a municipal collection, also has a part to play in this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-4.u7	We would not have this misery if we chose to set up the system in a different way. We now have a jungle of different policies, dozens of insurers and hundreds of different options within all kinds of policies. It makes people go crazy, the trees stop seeing the forest and eventually pay more for the care, because they can no longer go through the municipality. Why does the Minister not take part in the proposal recently made by the SP? We have recently proposed the following. Put a line through all these policies, put a line through all those insurers and opt for one clear insurance where everyone is insured, where all medical care is necessary, so the dentist also, the physiotherapy. If we were to pay that bill together through taxes, three quarters of the Dutch would be ahead of it; three quarters would be better off. It's clearer, clearer and fairer. I'd like to know from the Minister why he doesn't choose that. Why does he make things so extremely complicated and doesn't people get the care they actually need?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-4.u8	In Mr Hijink's question I find the word 'choose'. That is exactly what I want: that there is something to choose in the health insurance. That is why I appeal to health insurers to ensure that information is clearly visible on their websites and in their contracts. Because only then can we all understand what is in our secure package. That is why I insist and do not want to work towards another system.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-4.u9	People are not waiting for the freedom to choose between dozens of different policies from dozens of different insurers, with 50 A4s in the fine print to find out if there is a difference. Nobody's looking for that. People want freedom of choice with regard to the doctor, the health care provider. They want to be able to go to that doctor or caregiver, who they trust and who they have a connection with. That's freedom of choice in health care. That's what this minister should choose. But what the VVD and the government have done in recent years is to create a healthcare system with a huge risk of their own and with extremely many policies and insurance companies, which no one can understand any more, while it can be so much simpler. So I ask the Minister once again: choose a clearer system, put a line through those insurers and ensure that everyone is assured of all the care he needs and we are going to pay it fairly, that is, through the taxes and not through all the complicated constructions that the government has so far maintained.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-4.u10	I'm not ahead of that route. The risk itself has been frozen for a number of years; Mr Hijink knows that. The clarity of the policy is a subject that we are discussing once and for all, not only in the Chamber but also in my consultation with health insurers. In fact, I think that you and I, and the whole of the Netherlands, should not read 50 pages of fine print, but should at least be able to take the main lines of the policy in a clear and easy way. In this way, the homepage of health insurance companies is also set up. That's a deal we made with the health insurance companies, and that's what I'm calling them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-4.u11	Thank you, Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-4.u12	The fact that municipalities take out health insurance for minimums is very commendable. But from research we also know that municipalities buy wide care, a basic package and an additional package, and that a lot of minimums actually pay more than they actually need, because the package is too extensive. A number of municipalities, for example in Drenthe, have switched to tailor-made health insurance, so that for everyone who needs it, not that very wide package is delivered, for which they actually pay a little too much, but there is just very specific care purchased for people in specific situations. That's what the municipality does for the minima. Is the Minister prepared to bring this model to wide attention through the VNG in his contacts with municipalities, so that minima do not pay more than is necessary for health insurance?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-4.u13	Mrs Dik-Faber indeed speaks a true word in her introductory remarks. Data from the AmenitiesWijzer also shows that the municipality's policy is the best choice for only 40% of the minimums, so not for the majority. Therefore, minima often opt for another policy. I understand that very well. I don't know that idea of a tailor-made health insurance, but I would like to stress here that it's an agreement between the insurer and the municipality. Experience has shown that insurers look very closely at each other and that municipalities do. So I actually think that the idea that Mrs Dik-Faber refers to, namely getting to know this development, is already going on in the field.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-4.u14	Today, general practitioners were the alarm clock; it was on the front page of the Volkskrant. They are very concerned about vulnerable patients. It is precisely these vulnerable patients who can benefit from the cooperation between municipalities and the health insurance provider. Mr Hijink rightly asked the Minister to make an active contribution to this, so that the policy remains affordable for everyone. We now also see a number of municipalities where no municipal policy is offered at all. In these municipalities the cooperation between welfare and care, which the minister says is important, is not established. What I would like to ask the Minister is: is he prepared to agree with the health insurance companies that in each region the largest health insurance company guarantees that a municipal policy will be concluded in each municipality?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-4.u15	I don't want to go on that route either. The speaker knows that we subject the various collections that exist in the market, including municipal policies, to a monitor, so that we can understand the operation and use of the different collections. I would like to inform the Chamber on this in spring 2020. That is the first information need I have and I want to share with the Chamber and discuss it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-4.u16	We still have a separate discussion on the whole risk settlement, so how the costs are shared between insurers. Along with Mr. Geleijne of 50PLUS, I tabled a motion during the health insurance debate with the request that the minister in his monitor give specific attention to the municipal policies. Then it's about numbers and the question of which municipalities do that. Is the Minister prepared to extend that monitor so that we can also see the price of these policies and the way in which the burden of damage and funding of the policies has been dealt with? We hear that there are problems with this in particular.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-4.u17	I'm in the process of contracting the monitor. I am going to see if I can take Mrs van den Berg's question with me. If that's possible at all, I think it's good to bring up that information so that we can take advantage of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-4.u18	The National Health Insurance Fund with a contribution tax according to capacity is going to be there. That's a prediction of the future, so we're gonna see that in the future. But now in concrete terms: what does the Minister think of the fact that Leiden pays €180 more for that minimum policy and in Utrecht €40 less? Those big differences, is that the freedom of choice that the Minister advocates? Shouldn't the insurers, the bulk of the money, be called upon to do so? 9 billion in reserves! Surely it must be possible to achieve a good policy for everyone at the same price?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-4.u19	A good policy for a reasonable price is exactly what we experience with each other every year. The cost of care is high. It's expensive. We shouldn't talk about it too easily. I think that the cost of care will rise again over the next few years is a fact of life. We will have to take that into account. It should not be easy for anyone, not for people with a big scholarship, but certainly not for people with a small scholarship. If a municipality enters into a contract with a health insurance company, the agreements may differ from one municipality to another. There is no general national solution for this when individual municipalities make agreements with individual health insurers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-4.u20	Secondly, Mr Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-4.u21	I asked if those differences were acceptable. For a minimum income €180 more in one municipality...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-4.u22	I'm gonna have to interrupt you for a second.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-4.u23	... and €40 less in the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-4.u24	Mr. Van Gerven, I have to interrupt you, because two questions have already been asked by the SP, I understand. I didn't pay much attention to that. You're not gonna move, are you? It's up to the Minister to decide whether he wants to answer or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-4.u25	I'd love to, Mr. Chairman. I believe that the municipality has several instruments in its hands for the conduct of policies for people with a small scholarship. This can be done through the special assistance, which can be provided through specific arrangements, through the provision of a choice help such as such an amenities guide that I spoke about and can be done through a municipality policy. Just focus on that one city policy... This is an instrument in the minimum policy, but it is not the minimum policy of a municipality.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-26-tweedekamer-4.u26	Thank you. That brings us to the end of this Question Time. I shall suspend the sitting until 3 p.m. Then we'll vote.
