ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-4.u1	I now give the floor to Mr Van Weyenberg on behalf of D66 for his question to the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment, whom I warmly welcome. The question is about gender discrimination in the recruitment of workers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-4.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, it is always apparent that not all people have equal opportunities in our labour market. People with a migration background are less easy to get an internship or a job than people with a Dutch background. People with lower education are more likely to be unemployed than those with academic education. Unfortunately, older jobseekers are still much more difficult to work. And it turns out that women in the Netherlands are still less likely to enter the labour market in this year than men. This is why, also at the request of D66, the Secretary of State is preparing a legislative proposal and an action plan to combat discrimination in the labour market and prejudices. Mr. Chairman. We were shocked again, as far as I am concerned, by an investigation that Het Financieele Dagblad had done. It turns out that 43% of men are approached once a quarter by recruitment agencies compared with 31% of women. That's a really significant difference. There is no sector where women are approached more than men for a job. And that in a labour market where women are still paid 7% less for the same job and where women still remain in top positions. That is one of the reasons why my group is also in favour of a temporary quota. The question is what we can do about prejudice and discrimination in that very early stage of recruitment and selection. That's why I have a few questions for the Secretary of State. The first one is about the bill that's coming up. Is that just looking at job interviews at a company and at the broadcasting sector, where there is also much improvement, or does that also offer enough leads to look at recruitment in the very early stages? If it isn't, shouldn't it be part of it? The second question is whether the Secretary of State is prepared to have a very thorough investigation of his own. Where did this come from? What the hell is going on here? Because nobody really understands where this distinction, the fact that men are approached much more often by recruiters, comes from. You can tell by the reactions. Is it part-time? I think that's a problem. It is sometimes involuntary, for example because childcare costs a lot of money. What's this all about? Is it because of pregnancy discrimination, even in the recruitment phase? Does the Secretary of State intend to conduct an independent investigation into this matter?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-4.u3	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to Mr Van Weyenberg for asking these questions, which indeed reveal a great injustice. Unexplained pay differences are unacceptable in our labour market, because we all want people to have a fair opportunity to develop. Maybe it's good to say in this context that it's Equal Pay Day tomorrow. That might be a good opportunity to have this conversation at the workplace as well. We are indeed doing a lot, but in the end it is also something that has to be done in people's minds and in people's behavior. As far as I am concerned, what we are going to regulate in legislation and what we have indicated in the Action Plan on Labour Market Discrimination is not enough, but hopefully necessary ways to do so. When it comes to bias discrimination, as Mr Van Weyenberg calls it, I can say that we are preparing a legislative proposal on the overall picture. In the end, it's about honest application procedures, it offers clues for how you could do that, but of course it's more than that. We will also address the underlying problem in the legal process. We are going to have a lot of research in the coming period which will also expose parts of this problem, think of the research of several departments on part-time work that is coming up. If Mr Van Weyenberg asks for another fundamental look at this issue, I am certainly very prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-4.u5	Thank you to the Secretary of State for that answer and thank you for having independent research carried out. I am very pleased with the research carried out by Het Financieele Dagblad and Radar and other consumer programmes, but you actually want this not to be examined ad hoc but once and for all and that it may be repeated occasionally in the coming period. I welcome the commitment that there will be an investigation. I would prefer to do that in the form of a study that we can repeat every few years, so that we can keep our finger on the pulse and what is going better and what is unfortunately not yet. Mr. Chairman. About that bill, the Secretary of State says that recruitment and selection, including recruitment agencies, are included. I think that's important. I think it's good to have another look at whether we've secured that enough in that law. I'd like to ask the Secretary of State for that look. Would the Secretary of State also like to discuss this with a number of major recruiters, to ask what is happening here? Then we'll do research, we'll talk, and we'll provide a legal basis. Yes, I agree with the Secretary of State that this is largely about culture. But it's about prejudice and sometimes tough discrimination. Pregnancy discrimination is one of the most common forms of discrimination in this country, I say with great pain in my heart. We cannot allow this to happen. I can't explain it to myself, I can't explain it to my wife, and I can't explain it to my 12-year-old daughter, if this is her front country on the labour market.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-4.u6	Mr Van Weyenberg's words come straight from my heart and I can very much endorse them. I also like to show you that we're pulling on the same side of the rope. Indeed, it is interesting to zoom in on that research, because the researchers do not really have a clear explanation for the difference they have found. They make a number of suggestions, including that unconscious ideas play a role. This confirms what we also discussed in the first period of this question. Recruiters are indeed included, I can assure you. There is a law to combat labour market discrimination in recruitment and selection and application procedures. It was open to everyone to talk to. The deadline was closed yesterday and we had a lot of reactions. I also have a discussion with a number of parties, such as employers' organisations or certain sectors where there was criticism. I'll also have a conversation with recruiters and recruiter representatives. That seems to me to be a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-4.u7	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-4.u8	I'm happy about that. I like to hear specifically what comes out of that conversation with recruiters, because I notice that everyone is struggling with the question what is happening here. I think that would be useful, even for our own minds. I would like to hear how the Secretary of State intends to shape that research and whether it can be done in a standard format, so that we can do it over time. Maybe we can if we get the bill in the Chamber. Because I am convinced that this whole Chamber, from left to right, wants to do something about this with the Secretary of State, because this cannot be the front country of our women, let alone our girls. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-4.u9	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-4.u10	In any case, I will ensure a good mode of linking back to the Chamber about what has been indicated on various sides about the internet consultation. I'd also like to see what the research results in, and whether we can get that directly involved in the legal process or whether I can do it separately. I would like to say once again that we are discussing a persistent problem here. If we turn it around, at the moment, with all the problems and concerns in our labour market, there are still a lot of people's talents that can still be used to the full.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-4.u11	Thank you. Thank you, too, Mr. Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-4.u12	The labour market must be accessible to all. The research shows that recruitment agencies now fulfil a kind of barrier function, consciously or unconsciously, which hinders the entry of women and people with a migrant background into the labour market. It's nice to have an investigation, but it's gonna take a while. This situation will still take place tomorrow. What will the Secretary of State do to raise awareness of recruitment and selection agencies in relation to these two groups?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-4.u13	The approach I have chosen is based on a number of pillars, including fines and therefore enforcement, because we are setting a standard. But you can't just force this. So it is also important that you look at why the organisations that are doing well are doing well. We're having those conversations, too. We'll work out those best practices. There are companies that show how the pay gap in the workplace is with them. I think that's tough, because it doesn't always make a good distribution, but then we can talk about it. People can do things themselves. I mentioned Equal Pay Day tomorrow. That might be a good opportunity to have this conversation on your own floor. Even if you're interviewing a number of candidates tomorrow, it's good to take a look in the mirror and see which mode you start that conversation in.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-4.u14	Equal opportunities in the labour market: many parties in this Chamber and also in the Cabinet are working on it. Unfortunately, it is not yet time, not even between men and women. In the article in the FD, also in the reaction of the researchers, I noticed the somewhat old-fashioned reaction: perhaps men present themselves better or they are more modest. While I think the main problem lies with the people who choose the applicants, the selection mechanisms. Will the Secretary of State also see what goes wrong there? I believe that there is a reason why men are still more likely than women, so not so much in the fact that men are better at profiling or less modest. I really think that's an old-fashioned argument, that you always hear back in this discussion. You'll always put it back in the interviewant's office. Let's take a look at the people who select the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-4.u15	Less modest, indeed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-4.u16	It is a very important point. It is also good to discuss this in detail. We will certainly do the same with the bill. The bill I submitted for consultation makes an attempt to lay it down in rules, namely that when you start a job application, you show how you have thought about giving everyone the opportunity to apply, for example by setting the hours. At the same time, it is always an interaction. But the underlying mechanisms that affect participation can hopefully be combated in this way as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-4.u17	The VVD, too, naturally agrees with the observation that labour market discrimination is reprehensible and that we must do everything in our power to do so. However, the article deals with the fact that recruitment and selection agencies seem to be unable to make the appearance that they do not discriminate. In this light, we wonder whether and how the Secretary of State will help the smaller entrepreneurs, who are not professionals, to prevent labour market discrimination, especially in view of the responses to the internet consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-4.u18	We have indeed had a lot of reactions, which we are currently looking at. Grosso mode are people who are very much in favour of it and people who are critical. In any case, I have discussed with a number of sectoral organisations representing entrepreneurs who are often small employers, with perhaps only a few people employed, how we can come up with legislation to help them. Because I am convinced that, in most cases, if discrimination occurs, it is not aware. That's what we noticed when we made this law. So it's also a bit of help. But it certainly shouldn't be a paper tiger. That is why I made an appointment with a number of business representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-4.u19	Thank you. Let us now turn to Mrs Leijten's question to the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment.
