ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-15.u1	I propose that we proceed immediately to the next subject, the report on the consultation of the Agriculture and Fisheries Council in writing, again with the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality. As the first speaker, I give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-15.u2	Thank you, Mr President. We held written consultations with the Minister in July, including on the European regulation on the transport of live animals. Since then, only very bad things have happened. It's gotten really hot. Animals have suffered incredibly. Over the past week we have seen that a transport of more than 14,000 sheep from Romania to Saudi Arabia by ship has ended dramatically. Whatever the European Commission is trying to do carefully, there must be much more measures to protect animals. That's what my motion is about. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the European Transport Regulation still allows animals to be transported from the EU to Asia, North Africa and the Middle East for a very long time;]] [[Whereas the recent drama of drowning more than 14,000 sheep after the ship on which they were transported from Romania to Saudi Arabia merely underlines the need to stop these horror transports;]] [[Notes that transport of animals from the EU to third countries is far from undesirable and unacceptable;]] [[calls on the Government to promote an adaptation of the European Transport Regulation, which does this right,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-32-1210]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-15.u3	Then there has been a lot of progress in the area of trade agreements. We have seen before that the treaty with Ukraine, where there was much more chicken meat coming this way than the government had planned in advance, has been renegotiated on the quota. When that quota was increased, with which the Dutch Government had itself agreed, Minister Schouten was angry afterwards. We want to avoid such a scenario. We have seen that the European Commission has restarted negotiations with Thailand since there were elections there. Now Thailand is a much larger exporter of chicken meat to the European Union than Ukraine, even bigger than Brazil. We've asked Minister Kaag about that. She says: nothing to worry about; we'll just wait and see. I actually want to know what the Minister of Agriculture is going to do to intervene in time, because farmers are right to worry about this possible new trade deal, which will overflush the Dutch market with products far below European standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-15.u4	Thank you. The next speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs Lodders on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-15.u5	Mr. Chairman. I can be very short. I have a question in response to the letter we received on the SCOPAFF which will take place on 5 and 6 December. Since it's quite technical, I'll ask the question at the VAO Plant Protection Products.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-15.u6	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the Chamber's input. The Minister does not yet have the motion and may also have to look at it for two minutes. I'm suspending the meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-15.u7	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the report of a written consultation on the Agriculture and Fisheries Council. I call the Minister of LNV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-15.u8	Mr. Chairman. There is one motion, tabled by Mrs Ouwehand, which calls on the government to support an amendment to the European Transport Regulation banning long journeys of animals to third countries. The Netherlands is the only country that does not export animals for slaughter to third countries, but breeding animals, animals intended for breeding. We in Europe are committed to the amendment of the Transport Regulation on this point: that animals for slaughter no longer go to third countries. For that aspect, we are doing everything the motion requires. This motion calls for it for all animals, including animals that are bred, but that is just too absolute. That is why I should advise against the motion, but on the issue of animals for slaughter, we are doing everything the motion requires. Then there is the question of Thailand. I asked what Minister Kaag said in the Chamber last week. You know, the cabinet speaks with one mouth. She has already responded to this by stating that the current mandate with Thailand will be reviewed to see whether it should be updated. I suggest that you continue this discussion with her, because that is what you have already started. She's already indicated that she's looking at it. I believe that the House will continue the debate on this matter with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-15.u9	A quick question. I did indeed submit it to Minister Kaag: take out agriculture! The answer was, "I can't do that." So we are dealing with a reopening of the negotiations on a treaty on which agriculture is an important part and we see that Thailand is the largest chicken exporter in the world to the EU. I do not want us to regret this at the very last moment or to hear it: yes, but now we can no longer object. My question is therefore: what concerns does the Minister of Agriculture have about this? Is there gonna be an intervention in time? And if so, how?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-15.u10	Mrs Ouwehand knows that when we make such agreements, we always look at the manner in which these animals are kept, at the means allowed in them, and at the way in which animal welfare is handled in that sphere. That is also the line that Foreign Affairs and Foreign Trade and OS have in this respect. I assume that this is the case again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-15.u11	Thank you. This also brings us to the end of the examination of this report of a written consultation on the Agriculture and Fisheries Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-15.u12	On the motions tabled, we shall vote on Tuesday, 10 December.
