ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-11.u1	The next item is the VAO Project military radar station Herwijnen. I give the floor to Mrs Karabulut of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-11.u2	Mr. Chairman. What do you do as a small municipality when the Defense Department, headed by the Secretary of State, wants to push the placement of a radar station through it? You'll be resisting. That's not for nothing. The municipality of West Betuwe unanimously opposes the construction of a military radar station in Herwijnen, because it already has a radar station. Defense has countered and not sufficiently informed in all possible ways. This is also reflected in the commitments made by the Secretary of State. However, the Secretary of State considered that it was possible to overrule the municipal decree and all the objections, in particular those concerning the health effect, by means of a state coordination decision. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the city council of the municipality of West-Betuwe unanimously opposes the construction of a military radar station in Herwijnen;]] [[noting that in Herwijnen is already a KNMI meteoradar that also emits high-frequency radiation;]] [[also noted that Herwijnen is located on the Waal, where tens of thousands of ships pass each year using radar equipment;]] [[considers that rewines should not be subject to any further high-frequency radiation;]] [[calls on the government not to place the military radar station in Herwijnen and to look for another location,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that no independent scientific research has so far been carried out on the radiation of the intended SMART-L radar of Thales;]] [[calls on the Government to await a thorough scientific examination of the radiation effects of the SMART-L radar before taking a final decision,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut and Mr Kerstens. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31936-652]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut, Mr Diks and Mr Kerstens. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31936-653]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-11.u3	Finally, Mr President. The Secretary of State has promised to get better. The Secretary of State has clearly shown that the Defense Department has not done his homework properly, that it was gossiping. The Secretary of State has also promised to improve communication with the residents and to have TNO carry out an investigation into the cumulative radiation effects, the biggest concern of the residents. Now, according to a publication of Follow the Money, TNO told Follow the Money in June that the investigation would be completed and would lie with the Defense Department. Then, Defense communicated to the journalists that it would also have been shared with residents. None of that seems to be the case. Is there a game playing here? 'Cause if I put all the facts together, they're gonna call me that question. Is that research there now? Why isn't that shared? Why wasn't that communicated to the Chamber last week? Why does the Defense Organization say anything else to a journalist, to the residents and to the municipality than to us? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-11.u4	Thank you, Mrs Karabulut. Mrs. Diks, GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-11.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas if a radar station has negative effects on the health of residents, it is likely that this will also be the case for military personnel working with the radars on a daily basis;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibility of including radar-related operations in the monitoring of the health of defence personnel and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Diks and Mr Kerstens. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31936-654]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-11.u6	It is clear that the Secretary of State in the AO has made it very clear that she too regretted the way things were going, that things should have been different and that things will certainly be different in the future. As a former local director, I myself have made it very clear that, precisely because of the application of the National Coordination Regulation, the State must also act as carefully as possible. The Secretary of State has said that it should have done better and that it will do better. The importance of a radar station is obvious. The social and security importance is obvious, but as far as I am concerned it is also very obvious that this place is very problematic. That is true for all kinds of reasons. For example, the environment is very concerned about everything that could happen there. We are concerned about the accumulation of radiation and in any case it is clear that the place now chosen is far too close to the habitation. I am therefore very curious to see what the Secretary of State is going to come up with: the answers she is going to give now, but certainly also the follow-up to these questions. I await the answer and the questions of...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-11.u7	...Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-11.u8	Mr President, a brief question to clarify. Does all this lead to the conclusion of the GroenLinks Group that this radar station should not be realized in Herwijnen?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-11.u9	I would not have dared to claim that there is no place in Herwijnen where such a station could be located without an investigation and without an answer from the Secretary of State. But I think I have just given a number of reasons why I think that the present chosen place is impossible. I just don't see it as a possibility. In my opinion, we have also exchanged very strongly in the AO that the mere fact that Defence owns land in that place cannot, of course, be an argument for setting up a radar station there. But I could very well imagine that the Secretary of State is looking for other places in the Netherlands, because the situation in Herwijnen has already been so derailed that I honestly do not see very well how it can now in a mood become a logical and safe place for the installation of a radar station.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-11.u10	No, that's why. That's why I thought you'd share my conclusion. But you say, at least not at the chosen location. Will you at least bring that to the conclusion that the National Coordination Scheme should be repealed?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-11.u11	Actually, I don't think so either. I have just said that there is, of course, a social interest in the installation of such a radar station. I have just indicated that it might best be possible to find another better place in Herwijnen within the scope of the National Coordination Regulation. I don't know. The Secretary of State may answer that question and at least she will investigate it. I would therefore consider it premature to withdraw the National Coordination Regulation at this stage. Bright is that I indicated that I don't see the current chosen place as an option.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-11.u12	Mrs Karabulut, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-11.u13	But, of course, there is also a social interest in respecting local democracy and a very important social interest in terms of health effects. This arrangement, of course, concerns this location, and it remains above the market for the Secretary of State to be able to push through its sense or the sense of Defence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-11.u14	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-11.u15	Given the process, I am surprised by this position of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-11.u16	I find it complicated, quite frankly, as a former local director, for you to say that the Secretary of State makes her point. In my view, I have just made it very clear that there is also a social national interest in the installation of a radar station. GroenLinks agrees that such matters exist and that they must be somewhere in the Netherlands, but I also made it very clear that I do not consider the present place acceptable because of all the arguments we have just exchanged.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-11.u17	Thank you, Mrs Diks. I now give the floor to Mr Voordewind of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-11.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have similar questions to those of my colleagues before, because reports from Herwijnen and the media also reach me about the research into cumulative effects. Maybe the Secretary of State can go into that. Is there an investigation already, or should that start? I'd like to hear an explanation from the Secretary of State on that point. I have a brief question about the radiation effect of the 5G network. The Secretary of State said last time: that's difficult, because we don't have it yet. Does this mean we can't investigate anything in that area? I suppose you can extrapolate, that you can somehow involve that in any way. I would also like to hear a reaction to that. Finally, Mr President, a motion. To underline once again what the outcome of the debate has been, I would like to hear the State Secretary's opinion on this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to identify alternative locations for the radar station by means of an in-depth investigation and to inform the Chamber of this investigation before the first kick hits the ground,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voordewind, Mr Belhaj, Mr Van Helvert and Mr Bosman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31936-655]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-11.u19	Thank you, Mr President. Last week we had a debate with each other on the installation of a new radar tower. We had that debate very close thanks to the intransigence of the inhabitants of Herwijnen in the Betuwe, who, to put it mildly, felt offended by the way in which the defence forces have so far thought they would take decisions. The Secretary of State travelled to Herwijnen a few days before the debate to apologize. I have two motions, one far-reaching and one less far-reaching, which is no less important. I'll start with the last one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that its conduct in the run-up to the decision to install a new radar tower has seriously affected the confidence of the residents of Herwijnen in Defence;]] [[whereas Defence has indicated its commitment to restoring such confidence and its willingness to make efforts to do so;]] [[Whereas the latter should be taken into account in the follow-up to the final decision-making process;]] [[Whereas in this context research is being carried out into the possible effects on the health of the cumulative radiation mentioned in Herwijnen after possible placement of the radar tower in question;]] [[Not only does the cabinet ask questions from the residents of Herwijnen (c.q. including their representatives, but also possible proposals to involve other (reputable) scientific institutes;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Kerstens, Mr Belhaj, Mr Diks and Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31936-656]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-11.u20	Then let's move on a little bit. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in the run-up to the decision to place a new radar tower vis-à-vis the inhabitants of Herwijnen, the Ministry of Defence did not establish itself as it did on the basis of the Kerstens c.s motion adopted previously by the Chamber. (34932, No. 11) can be expected, as has been recognised by the Defence Department;]] [[Considering that this has led to the loss of confidence among the residents of Herwijnen in Defence as a good neighbour and that it is not expected that this confidence in the short term for decision-making that remains, according to Defense itself, can be restored to a sufficient extent;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to definitively refrain from placing the radar tower in question in Herwijnen and to opt for a different location or solution,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kerstens and Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31936-657]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-11.u21	Mr. Chairman. Last week we had a strong and substantive debate on Herwijnen with the Secretary of State. We have agreed that all the questions of the residents will be involved in the investigation. We have also been promised that the TNO investigation will be sent to the Chamber and that RIVM can play a role in this. And perhaps most importantly, the Secretary of State is going to conduct a thorough investigation into an alternative location. We will monitor this from the Chamber as well. As I have just said, I support the motion by Mr Kerstens and Mr Voordewind. In fact, I can only conclude by saying that it does not happen often that a last-minute opportunity is created in the event of a difference of opinion between local politics and The Hague. This was done in this case by Mrs Karabulut, Mr Voordewind and the undersigned, among others, just before the summer. Sometimes it happens. That doesn't deserve the beauty prize, but I think it's a good thing we did this. This gave the Secretary of State the opportunity to be empathetic with the fact that many residents feel that they have not received the right answers, despite the information meetings. I mean, by "the right answers," not the answers they wanted to hear. They just didn't get any answers. So I think it is very good that this additional step should be taken, apart from all the procedures that still have to be followed. Only then will D66 finally see what it thinks of this, on the basis of the data and the facts that lie there. We are fully aware that the radar station is extremely important. You can easily say: we will look for a different location, but that can lead to the same kind of discussion. I think that the most important thing is that the Secretary of State has promised to answer as close as possible all the questions of the residents. We'll meet back in the Chamber when the reports are there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-11.u22	Thank you, Mrs Belhaj. Finally, Mr Van Helvert, CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-11.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It may conflict with the interests of local authorities and the national government. It happens all the time. It is then important that the communication and the procedure are clear and sound. That was not the case at first. I have to say that the Secretary of State has clearly said: that was indeed not good, and I apologise for that. We think that is quite right. The fact that this can now be discussed nationally indicates that democracy is working well. This does not mean that everyone in Herwijnen will agree with the final result, but that this can be openly discussed everywhere with the responsible Secretary of State. That's good. Madam President. In general terms, we have asked for three things from the Secretary of State. One: that no kick goes into the ground before the TNO investigation is known and discussed with the municipality. Two: that in the discussion the municipality can ask additional questions to the Secretary of State and get answers to them. And three: that the Secretary of State ensures that the investigation into a possible alternative location is completed and shared with those involved. One of them is the House of Representatives. The Secretary of State has given a generous undertaking. We are sure of that today with the fantastic motion by Mr Voordewind, Mr Bosman, Mrs Belhaj and myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-11.u24	Thank you. I'll suspend for a few moments. Then we'll listen to the Secretary of State's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-11.u25	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-11.u26	Thank you, Mr President. I believe that the Members who have just spoken have all referred to the debate we had with each other last week. I think it was also good to be able to have that debate with each other. I indicated how the process went, what went well and what did not go well. I have included you in the considerations that have been made in the past period and how the process has started. I have indicated that I have made agreements with the municipality on how this should go in the future. I have also indicated to you that, as far as I am concerned, documents will be made public as much as possible, unless. That "unless" is in national security balances, for example. Of course, you don't want to disclose information about the equipment that could get into the wrong hands. That will always be the balance. As Mrs Diks rightly pointed out, of course we are not doing this without reason. Defense doesn't apply any national coordination regulations. A department like EZK does that much more regularly. I'm not doing it alone; I'm doing it with the Home Office. We're doing that because of the National Security Plan, because we just need those two radars. We need them to guard our airspace and to make sure that nothing weird happens. For that, we need a location. The municipality of West-Betuwe, then Lingewaard, said not to agree to the zoning plan. If the new municipality of West-Betuwe is not willing to participate in a zoning change, which is also their right, are we going to go for a National Coordination Scheme, yes or no? That is what we have decided to do, and that is what it is for. The National Coordination Regulation is subject to all the safeguards that exist, because the Defence Department must not press through. I heard Mrs Karabulut say that, but that is not the case. If you want to get all the permits, you just have to meet all the standards. Whether it concerns land-use planning, environmental standards or health standards, you have to comply with them. So all the guarantees are in there. And for this, matters must be submitted, both to the municipality and to the province as well as to residents, with participation and all the formal moments before that. I understand Mrs Karabulut's emotion, she and I have had that debate with each other, and she has had a nasty feeling about it, but I think it is good to say that it is not true that there are things that can not be put down by the Defense without any guarantees and without complying with legal standards. It just can't and it won't. Mr Van Helvert and Mr Voordewind have asked whether there is a kick in the face before we know whether the standards are being met, and whether all the alternatives have been taken into account. Yes, of course. There will be no kick in the ground until the guarantees have been proved. I think it is right to indicate that framework, also as a kick-off for the assessment of the motions. Mrs Karabulut and Mr Voordewind also asked whether or not a TNO study. An article was also referred to. It's good to mention that a research on radar radiation was done by Thales. As you know, Thales himself already has a radar in Hengelo, which is also on. Research has been carried out into what that means and TNO verified it. That investigation was known at the meetings with the residents. They also asked experts what they thought about that. Following those meetings, TNO was asked to check whether further research could be carried out. In any case, we need this as a basis for the environmental permits: then we need to be able to show what the health effects are. Therefore, that was not the case during the meetings that took place in 2018. TNO has drawn up a memorandum for the summer, mid-June, setting out the cumulative effects of radiation on health. As a result, because of the summer vacation we also have in the department, we have now asked additional questions to complete the memorandum that lies ahead. We shared these, including the memorandum, with the municipality, with the request for additional questions from the municipality. This should lead to an investigation from TNO. Then I come to Mr Voordewind, who I believe has asked to include RIVM in this context. And Mr Kerstens asked to ensure that other parties can watch, but scientifically supported by renowned parties, and not by anyone who raises his hand. I said in the AO that I absolutely want to look at that. That's where we stand. I promised the municipality the alternative investigation within six to eight weeks, because the sooner, the better. I cannot comment on the TNO research yet, because that has yet to start. There is therefore a memorandum, additional questions have been asked from the Ministry of Defence and the municipality has been asked for additional questions that can be included in the investigation. That's where we stand in the process now. I have answered Mrs Karabulut's questions. It might be good to point out that TNO has already looked at the cumulative effects in a memorandum. As a result, we have said: that is fine, but we have additional questions, also in connection with the AA. You have asked questions, but we have them ourselves, for example, about ship traffic on the Waal. We have asked for these questions to be explicitly included. I have promised to involve the municipalities in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-11.u27	Follow the Money's piece says: "This is how Follow the Money asked last summer, during the preliminary investigation into a reconstruction of the defence radar at TNO, whether the cumulative effects of the electromagnetic radiation were investigated. TNO stated that it looked at the different sources available and found that the total tax was below the limits." Hasn't this been said by TNO?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-11.u28	TNO has drawn up a memorandum containing this, but that is not yet the investigation. It is positive news, I would say, because it shows that TNO, based on the information it had and had examined at the time, says that it is below the standards. But we have said, as a result of the memorandum, that we have additional questions. We have also asked the municipalities to ask additional questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-11.u29	Defense has indeed raised the suggestion, both against journalism and others, that this investigation had been carried out and had also been communicated with the residents. Then I have the next follow-up question. Why is this, knowing that the cumulative effects are such a big issue, knowing that that memorandum is there, not shared? Is the Secretary of State prepared to share that memorandum in the context of transparency, openness, the learning of the mistakes and better doing so?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-11.u30	This memorandum was not there at the time of the residents' meetings. Those residents' meetings were in 2018. In 2018, TNO's verification of the Thales report was there. Well, he was familiar. Questions were also answered by the TNO expert at those meetings. RIVM also said something about it. The GGD was also present. But that memorandum wasn't there in 2018.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-11.u31	However, in response to questions from the journalists in question, it is stated that "I quote a quote from Defense "the standards with which there are no risks to health are met; RIVM and GGD were present that evening and endorsed TNO's explanation'. Next, sound recordings show that this is not the case. Then why is this being communicated? Again, is the Secretary of State prepared to create clarity, total clarity, and share that memorandum?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-11.u32	Two things have to be taken apart. At the time of those residents' meetings, presentations were given on the basis of the studies that were there at the time. The GGD and RIVM were present. In addition, questions were asked based on the information that was available at the time. At that time, for example, the memorandum was not there. One of the questions that emerged was about the cumulative effects. TNO has now stated in a memorandum that it sees that the cumulation effects are still below the standard. We have asked whether everything is in it, whether we have looked carefully at certain things. These are several questions that you have also asked in general consultation. This is now being further investigated by TNO. This mandate is given together with the municipalities. But you are referring to the meeting that was held on the basis of the information that was present at the time. That's when the memorandum wasn't there. TNO then said, on the basis of the research that was at the time and was also made available for inspection, what the radiation effects are. A request has been made for cumulative effects. In response to these questions, it has also been said that we need to do more research. In any case, we need that to underpin our environmental permit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-11.u33	Mrs Karabulut, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-11.u34	Does that memorandum form part of the current study on cumulative effects and can the content of the memorandum be modified by the ongoing investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-11.u35	That memorandum is there, so it stays there. It's about the question of what research you're now conducting into the cumulative effects. That memorandum provides a basis for that. On this basis, we have asked additional questions for TNO to co-examine. We have said to municipalities: these are the additional research questions that Defence has; dear municipalities, what additional questions do you have? Those questions together will be given to TNO to investigate. Something comes up and that is the basis for the further application and the further journey.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-11.u36	You've already had four interruptions, Mrs Karabulut. I call Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-11.u37	I would like to hear the answer to the question on the sharing of the memorandum.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-11.u38	I have said that everything will be made public as much as possible. I have also said that this will initially be done with the municipality, but that I am working on a website on which the documents that can be made public will be made public. For example, this will include the memorandum, but also previous TNO studies, if possible, the Thales study, all that can be done, or alternative research, if present. I have also told you what the weighting is for 'if possible', namely the safety importance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-11.u39	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for making that memorandum known and public. After all, it is striking that last week we talked about this for two or three hours and this memorandum did not come up at all, when we talked constantly about what the cumulative effects are. The Secretary of State said he was going to investigate. But apparently there was already a memorandum, which concluded that it would also remain cumulatively below the standard. If that was the conclusion, the question remains what we are going to investigate further. We can bring in a few more institutions, but will that change the conclusion that has already been drawn in that memorandum? Because apparently TNO was also involved in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-11.u40	On the basis of that memorandum, I myself had a look at what additional questions we would have ourselves, what there is and what there is not in that memorandum. So the memorandum is not the research as we see it. We have supplementary questions of our own. I have agreed with the congregation that I will ask them what specific questions there are and whether we can take them with us. In general consultation I have told you that there may also be questions that TNO, RIVM and the GGD say they cannot comment on because they cannot be scientifically investigated. That is what I said to you in general consultation. But I have indicated to you that I think it is important to involve the municipality, in order to ensure that we create support. Because Mrs Karabulut rightly indicated that there were two things in the letter from the municipality of West-Betuwe to me. First of all, it concerned the study of alternatives. I made a commitment on this: within six to eight weeks. Secondly, health risks. I've indicated that I think it's important to look at that. That is also why I asked TNO to do further research.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-11.u41	But I had a very simple question. The memorandum investigation appears to be there, it's been investigated. My question was whether the conclusion of TNO will change, given the additional questions. Because we can of course ask additional questions, but the essence of the question was: does it meet the standards we have set in relation to radiation? Do you see that the supplementary questions are going to change that? Or do you say, no, that conclusion stands?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-11.u42	I'm not asking the question for nothing. It would be weird if I said the investigation wouldn't change. I have indicated to you that we consider it important to examine whether all the data, the questions that have been asked, have been sufficiently taken into account in this memorandum. If that comes out, it'll come out. If that doesn't come out, something else will come out of the investigation. Where it can still be so that it stays within the standards. If it doesn't stay within the standards, nothing will happen, I've already turned you in. I'm not asking these supplementary questions for nothing. And it's not for nothing that I've asked the municipality if there are any things that need to be involved. So this is just a study that will be requested from TNO. You have said that you would like certain things to be taken into account. I said yes to that. So this is an investigation that I at least don't know the results of. But if I didn't do anything with it, I wouldn't ask for it either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-11.u43	The answer is yes. May I ask the Secretary of State to review the motions now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-11.u44	Yes. But I think that part of the assessment is already decided in my general introduction. The motion in part No. 652, by Mrs Karabulut and Mr Kerstens, I will therefore be dissuaded. I've indicated to you that I'm doing an alternative investigation. If anything else comes out of that, I'll come back to you anyway. But for the time being, also within the framework of the National Coordination Regulation, we have chosen this location and must also comply with all legal requirements.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-11.u45	The motion in part No. 652 is therefore not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-11.u46	Yes. Then the motion to part No. 653, by Mrs Karabulut, Mrs Diks and Mr Kerstens. I also advise against this motion. I have already indicated in the debate that the National Coordination Regulation is starting with regard to the Cabinet. Within that framework, I will conduct both the alternative research and the study of the cumulative effects and all other investigations necessary to obtain the permits to be granted by the competent authority at all. I would like to continue with this in the framework of the National Coordination Regulation. It's also very necessary, because that radar needs to be replaced. I can't wait to hear that. I will take it with me in the framework of the National Coordination Regulation with all the commitments I have just made, so I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-11.u47	The motion in part No. 653 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-11.u48	The motion in part No. 654 by Mrs Diks and Mr Kerstens are about health monitoring.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-11.u49	But before you go on with that: Mrs Karabulut, do you have a question about the previous motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-11.u50	Yes. The Secretary of State said in her betrayal of this motion, if I am correct, that this will be taken into account in the process of the National Coordination Regulation. My question is as follows. Thales is now assessing their own radar. What's that look like? How is this taken into account in the later process?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-11.u51	I refer to the debate I just had with Mr Voordewind. That's what it looks like. There is a memorandum and Defence and the municipalities have asked additional questions. These are included in the RIP investigation. Mr Voordewind has asked for RIVM and the GGD to look at it as well. Mr Kerstens also asked about scientific parties who could possibly watch. I said: of course, they can watch this too! We want to use this expertise. That's what I'm talking about in the framework of the National Coordination Regulation. I think there's a difference. You're actually calling us not to start. I indicate that I will start the process, but that this is an integral part of the process.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-11.u52	Let's just name the facts as they are. The trial is over. That's fucked up. Now the National Coordination Scheme has been applied because otherwise... Well, for the reasons the Secretary of State mentions. That's the order.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-11.u53	Mrs. Karabulut...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-11.u54	Yes, Mr. Chairman. My follow-up question is: are all these institutes in their research based on Thales' research into the SMART-L? Or are they also doing independent research into the operation and radiation of the SMART-L?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-11.u55	TNO will investigate the cumulative effects. That means that the issues that can affect this are included in that investigation. TNO has indeed carried out a validation on Thales' research. This is also the research that was known in 2018, which was also referred to. That's another investigation. This is the study of cumulative effects. How exactly TNO is going to do that, I would like to leave it to TNO, because I am not the expert in that. The experts are over there. I have already indicated that other parties are watching this. They will investigate the cumulative effects within the international standards. For Mr Voordewind asked: take the WTO standards with him. Well, the ICNIRP standards, as they are so beautifully called, have been adopted by the WHO as the standards you have to meet when it comes to radiation. So TNO will investigate the cumulative effects and see if they meet the current scientific ICNIRP standards.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-11.u56	Since this is rather crucial, my request to the Secretary of State would be whether she is prepared to conduct independent research into the radar itself. Of course, it is suspicious for a manufacturer to assess its own radar. The Secretary of State should agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-11.u57	Mrs Karabulut, before I give the floor to the Secretary of State again, this is really another request.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-11.u58	No, it's about the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-11.u59	But you are now taking a part of that which you want to make a commitment on. Maybe you should have dealt with that separately. Now it is almost a full new debate, but this is a VAO. I'll give the Secretary of State the floor again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-11.u60	TNO does its research as it does, on the basis of its scientific insights and grounds. I do not want to interfere with the question of how she does that, how and with what research set-up. I think we have a very different debate here. I would like to leave this at TNO so that it can do its research as it should in order to decide on what cumulative effects there are, what that means for the health risks, and whether that meets the standards that apply to them. Then the motion to part No. 654 by Mrs Diks and Mr Kerstens on health monitoring. I am positive about that in the sense that I would like to look at it. We are in the process of setting this up and we must see what can and cannot be done. We are also discussing this, which Mr Bosman will do well with the Central Participation Committee to see what can and cannot be done. But we didn't settle this all at once. If you're going to do health monitoring, then it's very much the question of how wide and how deep you do it, what you can bring in and when. If I may explain it as an incentive to take it with me, as I read it, then I will give the motion judgment Chamber, because this fits in with that line.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-11.u61	The motion in part No. 654 gets judgment Chamber, but perhaps Mrs Diks can confirm that the Secretary of State may interpret it in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-11.u62	Yeah, exactly. We were inspired by this motion by the situation in Belgium, where Hawk radars were used. I don't want to dramatize it. That's not my style at all. We couldn't establish a relationship with that radar. At the time, the Netherlands was also very strongly asked to conduct these investigations. The big point at the time was: we can't do that, because we don't have enough data. That was actually the inspiration for this motion. We must ensure that we have that data and can properly report military personnel whether or not they have been in an unsafe situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-11.u63	That's exactly why we started it ourselves. What you don't know now could be harmful in ten years. You and I just don't know that sometimes. We want to record what data you can collect that can say something about the future and health of your military, linked to the commitment and work that is being done. We will take this point of radar radiation, precisely because of what you say and also because it is relevant to be able to say things in ten years' time or in twenty years' time. I do not read the motion in this way, but I would like to give you the expectation that it will not be settled within the next year and a year. That's more my expectations management towards your room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-11.u64	Thank you for this additional explanation. If the Secretary of State explains the motion in this way, I consider it to be taken over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-11.u65	Wait a minute. The motion had judgment room and it can stay that way unless... Let's keep it that way. This motion just gets judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-11.u66	Okay, fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-11.u67	I have such a hunch how the vote will go, looking at the nodding in the room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-11.u68	Next move.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-11.u69	I can make the motion in part no. Take over 655 for I have made this promise to you. Mr Van Helvert said it very nicely: the triple before the kick goes into the ground. I said yes to that, of course about the alternative locations. I also said that I would inform you about the health risks under the National Coordination Scheme. I would like to emphasise this, because I would like to start with this, given the safety importance of radar.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-11.u70	The Secretary of State says he can take over this motion. Is there any objection to that? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-11.u71	Then the motion to part No. 656 by Mr Kerstens and a number of colleagues, particularly women. Mr Kerstens made it clear that he wanted to involve the scientific institutes. I think that is an important fact, and I promised it in the AA. In any case, I would like to explain how I explain the third recital, namely in the context of the National Coordination Scheme. If I can explain the motion in such a way that it is taken up in this way under the National Coordination Regulation, then I will give her judgment Chamber. If this is to be done outside the framework of the National Coordination Regulation, then I must advise against it. That is why I would like to mention this very specifically.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-11.u72	That last reservation is not in the recitals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-11.u73	So then this judgment gets Chamber, the motion in part No. 656.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-11.u74	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-11.u75	Then the motion to part No. 657, finally. But first Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-11.u76	It just happened real fast. There are four signatories to my motion. The Secretary of State said she wanted to take him over, but I'm just trying to get in touch with the fourth signatory to ask if that's okay. So I'm gonna keep her in the air for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-11.u77	Ah, okay. Then you'll have a very short time. It's gonna be exciting. I'll talk very slowly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-11.u78	Mr Kerstens just indicated that it was the most far-reaching consequence. I told you, this motion is very similar to the motion in part No. 652, so I'm gonna tip her off. However, I have indicated how I intend to deal with the provision of information and the involvement of residents.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-11.u79	The motion in part No. 657 is not recommended. Let me take a look at Mr De Voordewind. I am assuming that Mrs Belhaj is going to be able to live with this, because the Secretary of State takes the motion in part No. 655 over. She agrees with the thrust of that motion, so I dare to assume that she agrees with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-11.u80	I just don't think it's formally decent, but I can't get a hold of her either. So let's get the motion taken over.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-11.u81	Thank you. By the way, I see that the D66 employee is enthusiastically nodding yes, so it's gonna be all right. I thank the Members of Parliament and thank the Secretary of State for coming to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-11.u82	I'm suspending until 7:30.
