ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u1	The next item is the continuation of the examination of the Law 35074, Amendment of Book 7 of the Civil Code, the Law assigning labour force by intermediaries, the Social Insurance Finance Act and any other laws to improve the balance between fixed and flexible employment contracts, i.e. the Labour Market Act in balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u2	I give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u3	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I would like to thank the Chamber for setting up the Labour Market Bill in balance. Thanks for the quick question. I thank my officials for their prompt response. I understood that there was some irritation after the first round of response. I hope we have made it up to you, Mr President, I am looking at Mrs Sent in the second round of the reply. This bill is a much-needed step towards a strong, well-functioning labour market. I would like to explain in my introduction why this bill is so important and why the follow-up and parallel steps are equally important. The labour market has changed dramatically over the last 30 years, in particular, due to a variety of developments. In that labour market you now see all kinds of different industrial relations. In contrast to 5.5 million permanent workers, 2 million are now employed with a flexible contract, together with 1 millionzzp'ers. Labour law squeaks and cracks with all these new forms of work. Therefore, you can see that the current design of the labour market is affecting employers and employees. Employers are often reluctant to employ employees on a permanent basis, because of the costs and risks involved. For example, they cannot always rely on being able to fire an employee if necessary and often pay a substantial remuneration in the event of a permanent employee's dismissal. For workers, labour market opportunities are unevenly distributed. Mr Ester also started this in his speech. There is a group of permanent workers with relatively high levels of protection. In addition, there is a growing group of flexible workers with job and income uncertainty. Think, for example, of temporary workers who do not receive a transition fee upon termination of their contract, or of those who have a call contract who have to remain unnecessarily available for work. The measures in the Labour Market Balance Act aim to strengthen the security perspective, especially for these vulnerable groups. I say this in response to Mr Schalk's question of the SGP. As far as I'm concerned, standstill is not an option. We need to move. At the same time, we must continue to think critically about the future of our labour market, with a better balance for employers, employees andzzp'ers. So I'm thinking about taking steps. The Labour Market Act is one of these steps. I would like to emphasise that. It's the first one. It is an important and also a much-needed step, which takes priority over the urgent issues of labour law. I am committed to reducing the differences in costs and risks between fixed and flex. This is necessary in order to improve the labour market balance. This is what the government, the Central Planning Office, the IMF, the OECD and the European Commission say. They point out the big difference between fixed and flex in the Dutch economy. They also implicitly mention the possibility of adjusting the labour market. Mr. Ester asked about it. I acknowledge that we are not talking here about adjusting a flexible speedboat to use a metaphor. It's really about a big oil tanker. It goes one step at a time. It's slowing down, but it's okay. Therefore, this legislative proposal contains measures which make it attractive for the employer to offer a fixed contract and measures which limit the negative effects of flexible contracts on workers. Other steps have already been taken, or I am taking them. I am working in parallel with measures on employers' obligations in the event of illness and disability. Mrs Oomen also referred to the fact that the payment of wages in the event of illness is a major risk to many employers. The agreements that I concluded with employers on this subject before Christmas are, by the way, also with employees, and I have presented them before Christmas. Some of these measures will therefore be introduced on 1 January 2020. This is SME default and care insurance, combined with a premium discount. In June, the House of Representatives, as well as your Chamber, will be informed about progress in this area. I agree with Mrs Oomen that it is a major risk for employers, and especially for those SME employers, to offer people a permanent contract. So this is what we are really trying to take away a risk in the labour market.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u4	I would just like to go back to the Minister's comment on the OECD and to the OECD recommendations. The OECD points out in particular the negative role played byzzp'ers in reducing labour costs and in putting pressure on quality jobs, and the fact that they are not insured against incapacity for work. That's exactly what the bill before us doesn't do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u5	I'll get to that in a minute. I heard the questions right. I will also go into detail on a step that I am working on in parallel, namely the elaboration of thezzp measures. In addition to sickness pay, the cabinet is working on a reform of the tax system, whereby all the deductions, including the self-employed deduction, are gradually reduced towards Mrs Sent, to the basic rate, a rate of the first disc. The first step will be taken on 1 January 2020, in the forthcoming Tax Plan. In doing so, the self-employed deduction and the SME profit deduction are deducted at the basic rate. Tax is thus also a step forward. This also contributes to reducing the differences in tax treatment between employees andzzp'ers. Mrs. Sent explicitly asked for this. I am also working with the Secretary of State for Finance and the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs to work out the measures to be taken, precisely in order to improve clarity about the nature of the employment relationship and to avoid false self-employment. Mr Ester, Mr Van de Ven, Mrs Oomen and Mr Ganzevoort asked for this, also because of the fear of a waterbed effect. I recognize that fear. In the explanatory memorandum, the cabinet has outlined that in this cabinet period we want to introduce these three pathways..... the Labour Market Act in balance, thezzp package and payment of wages in case of illness........................................................................................................................... On 26 November last year, the Secretary of State for Finance and I, together with Mrs Keijzer, sent your Chamber a second progress report on the state of play regarding the implementation of thezzp measures. This concerns in particular the development of the measures to protect the bottom and space for entrepreneurs at the top. Before I go into that, I'd like to address the inconvenience that I'm addressing in your room today in the first term. The law is not ahead at the same time, but today I can outline the outlines of what we are working on today and also indicate the intended date of entry into force of this law. Again, all these routes should be introduced in this cabinet period, i.e. 1-1-2020, or 1-1-2021, precisely in order to avoid the waterbed effect. You will of course know the main lines of the package from the coalition agreement and from the progress letters. There is a very broad support for these measures, as I also taste in this Chamber but also in the House of Representatives. In particular, it is about better protection of the bottom, about maintaining the fight against false self-employment, particularly in the middle category, and about unfair competition, and about greater freedom for entrepreneurs at the top. I also notice that in society, there is increasing support for this direction in society. We've had a number of sessions withzzp parties lately, to discuss that effect. So there is no lack of support for these measures. We're also working hard to do this. It's just a complicated, complex matter. That's what we saw at the DBA Act. It is a complex labour law, legal but also implementing matter. Before the summer, we will present the next progress letter and the elaboration of these measures. We intend to be able to submit draft legislation to your Chambers later this year. As I mentioned earlier in the House of Representatives, the measure is at the bottom of the picture when it comes to the zzp, which is expected to raise European legal concerns, because workers who are more affected by European law would then become employees under Dutch law. We are talking here about changing the nature of the work. This is a fairly serious breach of the European freedom to provide services and also with a high risk of state liability in it. That is why I announced at the end of November that, in addition to these measures, I will also be developing an alternative in the form of a minimum rate. Such a minimum rate achieves the same objective as the measure in the coalition agreement, which prevents the long-term hiring of self-employed persons at a low rate and thus prevents the creation of a group of working poor. Moreover, this measure is expected to be more appropriate within the European legal framework. That is what is currently being worked on. So I will inform you about that before the summer. The date of introduction of the new legislation is 1-1-2021. At the same time, concrete steps have been taken recently to counter false self-employment. Since 1 July 2018, enforcement is no longer limited to the obvious evildoers, but enforcement is extended to all evildoers. On 1 July last year, the Tax Administration published its labour relations monitoring plan and for this monitoring plan, the Tax Administration selected 100 clients for a company visit, in particular for those sectors where there is a risk of false self-employment. The results were sent to the House of Representatives in the spring. In addition, the Inspection SZW is currently carrying out risk-based monitoring of compliance with labour legislation, such as the minimum wage Act and the minimum holiday allowance. In this supervision, false self-employment can be part of the infringement and the inspection can be enforced. During the government agreement, the government significantly increased the inspection capacity by EUR 50 million, of which EUR 30 million is reserved for fair work. This means more inspectors who check for this kind of bogus self-employment, WML and WAADI legislation. What we have done is to clarify the authority criterion as of 1 January 2019. The handbook has been distributed and has been tried to give more guidance to employers and clients when it comes to the authority criterion that was very unclear about it. It was also one of the reasons for the lack of clarity about the DBA law, which also led to the suspension of enforcement, to the manual moratorium. Finally, the development of the legislative module, which must distinguish between who is there and who is not, is on schedule. It is expected to be ready by 2020, beginning next year. The Secretary of State for Finance will present a letter explaining the tax administration's further supervisory and enforcement strategy before the summer. Together, these measures should therefore be phased in to ensure greater security and clarity for all workers, including towards the entry into force of the new legislation, particularly in terms of better protection of the bottom of thezzp side and freedom at the top. With regard to the waterbed effect, I would like to add the following. The aim of the measures I am taking is to restore balance. They are not measures for just one group. That is why these measures must be seen in conjunction with each other. The risk is that one element will be highlighted each time, but it is the overall package of measures that must jointly restore the balance on the labour market. Again, all measures should start in this period, i.e. in 2020 or 1 January 2021, precisely in order to reduce or prevent the risk of a waterbed effect. That's what it's all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u6	I think it is very valuable for the Minister to mention all these points and tell us what is going to happen. It may be because of my limited prior knowledge of the whole dossier, but I wonder to what extent and at what points the answer to the waterbed effect is. So what risks does the Minister see in the current law, which are dealt with in this way? 'Cause they could be useful measures, I'm sure. But are they indeed the solution to the waterbed problem? Could you give me a little more explanation of that? My second question concerns timing. The Minister is right to say that it is good that it is both happening during this cabinet period. We wish the Minister that this cabinet period should last four years, but we are not sure of all that. That raises a question about that risk. If it will be shorter or if this legislation turns out to be more complex, what will be the consequences for the solution of the problems we have outlined?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u7	Mr Ganzevoort's first question was about the effect of waterbeds. The idea or fear, including from the Council of State, is that if we are going to increase the price of flexible work and the cost of doing so will be high, leading to excuses tozzp. It happened the other way around. The opposite has happened in the law for the introduction of the DBA: because of the uncertainty other constructions have arisen. So there's that waterbed effect. The labour market is creative and so are labour law lawyers. So I recognize that point. And the greater the cost differences, the greater the risk of the waterbed effect. If you look at where the biggest risk is, it is particularly at the bottom of the labour market. It competes on pennies, so to speak. The big problem is not with the ICT user who is hired by ABN AMRO for €200 per hour. The big problem is, to put it this way, in turning an employee into a self-employed person. With the coalition agreement in hand, we have now regulated the better protection at the bottom through a kind of minimum rate. That puts a bottom in the market. That also provides better protection. This also makes the waterbed effect less attractive. You're gonna live up to this risk. Then there is the second point. The entry into force of this envisaged legislation is 1-1-2021, but that does not mean that we are waiting for it. Before the summer, a letter will be sent to the House of Representatives, not only with the plans, but also with the enforcement side that I have just explained. Consultation legislation shall be made public in order to be able to consult. And in the second half of this year, the legislation must be in your chambers, otherwise we will not be in time for it to enter into force on time. Is there a risk in that? Well, I have just said in my contribution that I am testing a very large political basis, from left to right, in the Lower House, but also in the Upper Chamber, especially for the better protection of the bottom. No one wants some people to be pushed into a construction against their will, just to save on working conditions. So I don't think the political risk is that great. Again, from left to right I am called to urgency in the House of Representatives. It is said: enter this quickly, because we see the negative consequences of this. Incidentally, for the sake of completeness, last week I sent a letter to the House of Representatives about contracting and broadcasting. I have also sent a copy to your Chamber, because I believe it is relevant to this legal process. There we also see new forms of evasion, of avoidance, of which the social partners, particularly the trade union movement, of course, indicate that we must also maintain it strictly. As far as I'm concerned, it all comes together. I'm also confident this will work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u8	Trust is always a good thing, but we must of course consider today whether this law has enough certainty to be a good step at the moment, even if it cannot be followed up. But that's what we're gonna discuss over the course of the evening. I do have a question about the interpretation of the waterbed and how to combat it. I belong to the Minister for Employment in particular to address the question of pay. Of course, that's an important part, but it's not the only one. On the contrary, there are all kinds of other elements, such as payment of wages in case of illness, and you name it. Are you going to do something about that now? Is that included in the legislation onzzp or is that something out there?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u9	When it comes to sickness pay, I have reached an agreement before Christmas with the employers and with the Association of Insurance Companies to remove this particular point. We hear from a lot of SME employers that this is, in practice, one of the biggest obstacles to offering employees a permanent contract, in addition to the right to resign. Together with employers, especially SMEs in the Netherlands, we have developed a product: SME default and care insurance. It does not focus on the payment of wages sec, since 85% of employers are covered by the payment of wages, but it focuses on reintegration efforts. We hear from employers that certainly small businesses employing five to ten people simply don't know how to do it. I refer to reintegration into the first track, in the second track, the risk of wage sanctions. With that package, we're taking those risks away. This will start on 1 January 2020. I hope that goes with the SAB at the same time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u10	I knew that, but my question is what is laid down in thezzp package for working conditions that are not just about pay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u11	That's complicated, because they're entrepreneurs. And they have a fare. That fare, that's all there is to it. In terms of design, the government agreement states that the rate at the bottom should be between €15 and €18. This is not a coincidence; it is based on the social minimum, which is stuffed with insurance space, for running out, for not being able to bill every hour. That is precisely what the amount between €15 and €18 is based on, so that we can also lay the foundations for fair working conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u12	I hear the Minister say that it is important to look at the labour market situation in a broad context, in conjunction. I very much support that. I hear him talk a lot about all kinds of measures relating to thezzp'ers. That leads me to two questions. The first question is: if additional measures are needed to address the situation ofzzp'ers, does this mean that the Labour Market Act does not ultimately balance the labour market? The second question is: how should this Chamber derive the comfort that the Minister's proposals are feasible, enforceable and will actually reduce the waterbed effect?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u13	To start with the second question: I am going to go into the question of feasibility, enforcement and the rule of law in detail in my reply, so on all the points that are so very important in the Upper Chamber. I will come back to the different parts in a moment. The first question I find more of a semantic discussion. I have also indicated in the explanatory memorandum to the Labour Market Act in balance that it is part of a comprehensive package. This is the overall package of these measures, which focus on the types of contract, on fixed and flex, on the payment of wages in the event of illness and on the WIA and on the measures relating to thezzp package. The reason I cut them up in different legislative packages is to do with the implementation, with the capacity of the officials on different boards. The payment-in-aid measures relate to insurance. That is another part of the legislation, another part of its implementation. I cut them up to work them out in parallel, just to prevent that waterbed effect. Otherwise it would have been all in one big package and the risk would have arisen that we would have had to wait for parts and we would not have been able to move forward. This would also have caused all kinds of problems for implementation. I call it UWV, the SVB and the IRS. By doing it step by step, modularly, we make it manageable. I'll come back to the WW premium differentiation later, but it's a complicated job. I'm not running away from that at all. That is why we cut it up, so that it can be nicely phased out in time by the execution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u14	The Minister's first answer is not entirely an answer to my second question, which dealt with the feasibility and enforcement of the legislation that still comes into force in the field ofzzp'ers. I do not know enough about that to have confidence that the waterbed effects arising from this law, the Labour Market Act in balance, will be balanced by legislation in the field ofzzp'ers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u15	I understand. That is also part of the elaboration. You're right. What we run into is that the DBA Act has proved to be unworkable. That is why it has been shut down, the enforcement Moratorium has been set up and not very much is actually happening. In addition to drafting the legislation, we are now moving on to enforcement. In the coalition agreement, we agreed that the enforcement Moratorium should be phased out after the entry into force of the legislation. In the meantime, we do things to deal with the obvious evildoers. But the elaboration, the feasibility of the plans, is, of course, a very important point of attention, and rightly so. I do have comfort, when it comes to the minimum rate, for example, that it is feasible for enforcement and implementation. What is complicated is that for self-employed people very different data are available. For employees, we have the payroll declaration chain, which contains a lot of data, whereas for self-employed people we only have tariff and tax income in a year. This means that we need to take additional steps to implement it. But it's all about introduction on 1-1-2021.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u16	Finally, Mrs Sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u17	I am glad the Minister feels comfortable, but he has not convinced me that this comfort can also be offered to our Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u18	Maybe tonight will work, Mrs. Sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u19	I thank the Minister for his introductory remarks, but I do not quite understand it yet, in so far as the description he gives of measures to be taken should lead to the waterbed being prevented. At the same time, the Minister notes that the waterbed is already being moved. That is also understandable because under the WAB itself, the WAB sec, there is a cost increase for payroll. The discussion of a payroll pension scheme has also led to additional costs, but this is not related to the fact that the SAB itself has a cost increase. This cost increase is already leading to waterbed effects, to a market that reacts and takes action. The discussion on payroll pensions seems to me no longer to be so intrusive, because this other problem needs to be addressed. How can you make sure that this waterbed effect that is already underway is reversed?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u20	I had noted this question from Mr Van de Ven in the first term. It was under the other block, but I'd like to answer it right now. The first-term question concerned the impact of the SAB on employers' pay. The introduction of the WW premium differentiation does not change the total WW premium burden. The government will determine the high and the lag WW premiums in such a way that the total contribution income remains the same. There is therefore no increase in the burden. The reform of the transition fee, i.e. both the introduction of the transition fee from day 1 as well as the adjustment of the structure, leads to lower costs for employers on balance. Payment of the transition fee from the start of employment leads to about 300 million additional dismissal costs, the abolition of rounding over half years leads to 50 million additional costs and the abolition of the increase to 10 years of employment leads to 500 million less costs. As a result, there is a slight reduction in the cost of the transition fee. On balance, a savings of 150 million on dismissal costs for employers remains. In the case of equal pay for payroll workers, macro is pushed up the working conditions for those workers. In that sense, Mr Van de Ven is right. The idea is that we do not want unfair competition on terms of employment, but that the terms of employment become the same as those of the user or the client. This could lead to slightly more favourable working conditions and thus slightly higher costs, but that depends on the situation from which you leave. Of course, there are now payroll workers who have a pension scheme: the StiPP-Plus scheme. In the payroll pension legislation we are now presenting, we are going to go to a higher percentage. But that's not so much the burden; it's just in terms of working conditions, I'll say. In addition, a level playing field has also been created for flexible work by applying the same rate for fixed and flexible contracts in the premium differentiation, including, for example, temporary employment contracts. If you look at the total, you can see a shift of burdens, but on balance, not an increase in charges. In certain sectors, of course, you can see the effect. Mr Van de Ven is right: in the payroll sector, working conditions are, of course, rising. That is also the purpose of the legislation. We want to keep making payroll possible. We want employers to be able to take care of, but we want to avoid unfair competition on working conditions. That's part of the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u21	Let me summarize the Minister's detailed explanation as follows: overall, on the whole, there is no increase in the premium, but for payroll there is an increase in the premium, at least an increase in the cost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u22	Yeah, that's right. I think Mr Van de Ven is right about that. It is not therefore a question of taxes imposed by the government. In particular, it has to do with the equalization of working conditions, in order to avoid undue competition on working conditions. But that does indeed have an effect on working conditions. That's right, that's part of the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u23	The Minister has made it clear why this set of measures he intends to take together would lead to the balance he hopes for. He exudes a piece of optimism, in the vein of: I'm sure I can do it. But some things don't go the way we think. What is the consequence for the SAB at the moment that parts of what you are hoping and expect will simply not succeed?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u24	I find that a complicated question to answer, I say in honesty. I say to Mr Ganzevoort: when it comes to the waterbed effect between flexible work andzzp, it is particularly at the bottom of thezzp market. Again, I feel broad political support, but also broad support in society and inzzp'ers themselves. I have had two sessions withzzp organisations, which actually say: put a floor in it now and take care of that minimum rate, because we do not want to make vulnerable people dependent on azzp contract, I'll say. That is my confidence that this can count on broad political and social support. There is also the greatest risk of the waterbed effect. With the measures in the coalition agreement and with what we are now working on, which will be sent to the Chamber before the summer, we lay the ground in it and prevent that part of the waterbed effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u25	The Minister thinks it's a complicated question. That is also because we are faced with a complex issue, because you are only presenting the first part of what you want to do today. For the rest, we must do it with your hopeful expectations for the future. Or do you think it's gonna be a little tighter?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u26	In my opinion, reality is even more layered and complex. Of the risks employers have to offer permanent contracts, part of the right of dismissal lies in the right of dismissal. Part of it's in the cumulation ground we're discussing today. But a large part is in the payment of wages in case of illness. Mrs Oomen also addressed this in her contribution. That is not part of this bill, but it is something that needs to be done at the same time, because we, especially from SMEs, hear: this is why I do not offer people a fixed contract, this is why I continue to contract flex or hire other forms of flex. In a way, Mr Schalk is right. A lot of people who have pointed that out are right. That's why I'm trying to get all these separate routes introduced at the same time. Again: also with a view to implementation and implementation. One effect of this is thezzp effect. I agree with that, too. I agree with that point of the Council of State. That is why we are working so hard to get this legislation ready and to get it 1-1-2021. And again, next month, the next progress report will be presented with the details of these measures, including in terms of enforcement. I'm very positive and hopeful about that, and we're all working very hard on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u27	I would ask the Minister to reflect on seasonal work as well. You don't choose to do that. You're gonna get something done. That also means a waterbed effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u28	Can I give Mrs Oomen a full answer to that in the next block? I have a whole set of questions about flexible work, both payroll and chain determination as well as seasonal employment. I was still at my introduction. I would like to address two more points. The first point, for which Mr Ester of the Christian Union explicitly called for attention, is lifelong development. I very much agree with him that this is an extremely important part of future labour market policy. That is track 1 of the five tracks that we distinguished in December 2017. We're in the process of taking steps. Together with the Minister of Education, Mrs Van Engelshoven, I sent two letters to the House of Representatives. Soon there will be another letter. Together with Mrs Hamer of the Economic and Social Council, we are working to roll this out widely, including the R & D funds and the social partners. We are also in the process of transferring part of the learning allowance to the budget at the moment around EUR 200 million per year for the tax regime, precisely in order to encourage lifelong development, especially among those groups which do not participate in lifelong learning and development on their own. It's about the philosophy that people have to start directing their careers themselves. This has to do with the advice of the OECD and the Economic and Social Council in this area. It really calls for a cultural change. In the total of the Dutch economy, we now spend around 2 billion euros a year on a lifetime of development, on training, to a large extent through R&D funds. I think it is very positive that social partners really want to attract this because they also see that it is extremely important for the future to invest preventively in sustainable employability, in keeping skills up-to-date. That is a separate lot that is not in today's legislation either, but I think it is important for the future that we take great steps in that direction. Finally, I have introduced the Borstlap Committee on the regulation of work. Why? We see that the labour market is undergoing fundamental changes. A number of speakers have already said something about this in the first place. Think of the emergence of platform work and the emergence of new employment relationships between entrepreneurship and employment contracts in, or combinations thereof. It is precisely in addition to the steps now being taken in the coalition agreement, which are intended to restore the balance of the labour market, that greater, more fundamental changes in legislation and regulation are coming towards us. This has to do with labour law, social security and taxation. The committee advises on these fundamental questions. The opinion is expected in November. The interim report is expected in the summer, as Mrs Sent said. Mr Ester asked how the SAB relates to the Committee's opinion and to the evaluation of the WWZ. Mr. Ganzevoort also asked for this. I would like to stress that the Committee on the Regulation of Work is really investigating and advising on these fundamental questions about the future when it comes to social security, taxation and labour law. I consider the opinion of this committee to be very important for the establishment of the labour market of the future. The mandate of this committee offers scope to identify bottlenecks and to devise policy directions. In response to Mrs Sent and Mrs Oomen, I can say that more fundamental adjustments to the system of disability insurance and pensions are part of the committee's mandate. A more labour-neutral form of social security was also mentioned by Mr Ganzevoort on this issue, which is part of the mandate I gave to the committee. The discussion is indeed about: what future-proof social security system do you want? Are you assuming a mini-system? Are you assuming a universal social security system? Do you then assume a basis from the government and modules that are put on it from employers and employees or the market? That is all part of the committee's mandate. This also requires a fundamental review of our entire implementation of social security. In the Lower House I have the Wiersma c.s. motion. Court of Justice, in order to review this also in the execution by UWV and SVB and to align it with the committee's opinion. Mr Rinnooy asked whether the polder, the social partners, would also be involved. Of course, the government attaches importance to the views of the social partners. I would like to talk to them about the issues on the labour market. That is also part of the Borstlap Committee itself. It also consults the social partners, let me put it this way for the opinion. It is quite logical that employers' and employees' organisations play an important role in this, as do political parties. Mr. Chairman. I'm at the end of my introduction. We need to think about the future while we keep moving. Let us take a step-by-step look at what is the best way to achieve a balanced labour market. The government is working hard to develop the whole coherent labour market package and assumes that it will enter into force during this cabinet period. Don't stand still, don't slow down, but let's go. For this evening's follow-up, I will deal first with the chapter on flexible work, then with the right of dismissal, then with a separate section on the WW premium and finally with a few other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u29	Thank you to the Minister for his comprehensive explanation. It is quite remarkable how much is happening in the labour market. How many policies you have set out and are still planning to expand, there is a huge amount of action to be taken. I'm sure you've got that railroad book all in your head. I see some kind of master plan hanging on your study that's all marked out. But the trouble is a little bit we don't have it. We have a law to assess here without all those measures around it. You send a lot of letters to the House of Representatives, and you should continue to do so. But couldn't you make it a little clearer to us with a letter how these things are connected in that railway book? This does not have to be very long, but it would help my group and, I am sure, other groups. You have discussed the waterbed effects in detail. That's a bit of the crux today in the discussion of your law. Almost all the groups have responded to this. Are you being advised in this by labour market research? This country has a rich tradition in the field of labour market research. We need to monitor, monitor and explain these waterbed effects very thoroughly to see if they occur. Is there a trajectory for that? That could mean we're going to base less on intuition, but we're really going to be guided by empirical insights or, to what extent and where these waterbed effects are going to occur.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u30	I thank Mr Ester for his question. Indeed, I have the railroad booklet in my head, but it's good to put it on paper for once. If Mr Ester asks, I would like to do so. I'm gonna take a look too... Yeah, we're just gonna do that. In the short term, I try to outline the coherence between the different tracks as we call them, so lifelong development, zzp, WAB and all those topics, for your Chamber. The waterbed effect we see...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u31	Mr. Ester, one more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u32	Now, of course, comes the catch I forgot to ask and that would help us very much if we had to vote on this law next week. Would a letter like that be possible? I'll take you upstairs, too. Yes, there's a nod.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u33	There's nodding, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u34	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u35	There's nodding. This means that a number of people have to work very hard, but they are used to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u36	Is it there next Friday before noon, as always?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u37	This Friday before noon? Yeah, the room's asking, we're rolling. We are going to do our best, after what I have said, to outline for your Chamber what is going on at the same time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u38	I hear the Minister stressing the importance of involving social partners. I fully support that, of course. But I wonder how to reconcile this with the input of the social partners at the labour market law expert meeting in balance. There was little support to listen to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u39	The background to this is a public secret, so I can share that with you... is as follows. The social partners negotiated this package with each other for 14 months, including on the Work and Security Act and on the payment of wages in the event of illness, in fact on the coherent package of the government agreement. During the formation I was in a different role on the other side of this square, in the Stadhouderskamer (Stadhouderskamer) the social partners did not come out with each other. Those negotiations have stalled. This meant that we had to make a political decision on this urgent issue, so to speak. You see, and I believe Mr Ester said this in his speech, a complete symmetry in the reactions. Employers' organisations are satisfied with all the measures related to the fixed contract, the cumulation ground, the redundancy compensation and that kind of thing, whereas employees are very happy with the premium differentiation, the payroll measures and the transition fee from day one. What they are dissatisfied with are exactly the points the other party is satisfied with. Workers are happy with fixed, but find flexibility far too far and employers vice versa. That has to do with the fact that they didn't come out together. At the same time, I think it is the responsibility of politics to lay down a legislative package if the polder does not come out. In the beginning of this cabinet period, in October/November 2017, I had contact with employers' and employees' organisations to see if we couldn't get out of it. But unfortunately, it didn't work out. The negotiations on these points had stalled in the polder in the 14 months before. I'm allowed to talk about this because this is a public secret. It was also shared with the press during the formation that Hans de Boer and Han Busker did not get out of this together. Mr. Chairman. My second block: flexible work. Many questions have been asked about chain determination and payroll in particular. I'm going into that now. As I indicated in the introduction, the government's intention with the legislative proposal is to prevent the choice of a flexible contract from being determined by differences in costs and risks between contracts. Mr Ester said it in the very first sentence of his speech: flexibility has a price everywhere, except in the labour market. That is, of course, a strange observation when you look at it as an economist. Therefore, as a cabinet, we have put forward proposals to limit and price the negative effects of flexible contracts, so that flexible work is used as required by the nature of the work, and not primarily because it provides a cost advantage. Flexible contracts must remain possible. They are also necessary in the government's view to ensure that employers can respond to changing circumstances. I therefore refer to the measures on chain-setting, call-for-call agreements and payroll. I'll start with the chain determination. The aim of these measures is to ensure that the design of employment relationships is in line with the needs of employers and employees and the nature of the work. This will allow employers to continue to employ temporary work where necessary for their business operations. This legislative proposal contains three changes to the chain definition. In the first place, the period after which successive temporary contracts are transferred into an indefinite contract is extended from two years to three years. In addition, it will be possible to shorten the period between a chain of temporary contracts by collective agreement from six to three months in the case of recurrent temporary work which can be done up to nine months a year. This is particularly aimed at seasonal sectors, I say to Mrs Oomen. Finally, the third point. Special education is excluded from the chain definition for temporary in-house workers in primary education if they replace a sick teacher. A number of questions have been asked about this too, which I will come back to in a moment. At the same time, as a cabinet, we are taking a number of measures in the legislative proposal to make fixed contracts more attractive. Due to the measures of the premium differentiation in the WW and the introduction of a transition fee from day one onwards, it is expected that employers will not hold employees unnecessarily on a temporary contract, as this becomes more expensive for example because of the premium differentiation and unnecessary because the transition fee starts from day one. In fact, in the current practice, the combination of the transition fee that starts after two years and the chain clause that leads to a fixed contract after two years, creates a kind of ceshour on the labour market. There are a lot of contracts and constructions, for example, 7-8-8-constructions; 7 months, 8 months, 8 months, which are actually aimed at preventing you from ticking the duration of two years, because then you are entitled to a transition fee and to a fixed contract. The combination of these measures ensures that these hours are broken, so that there is less reason for employers to fine tune them, to operationalise them, or to optimise them. This is achieved, for example, by allowing the transition fee to start from day one. That is why it is also a coherent package of measures. All the separate parts really have a connection with each other. The aim is to reduce the differences between the forms of contract. In response to Mr Ester and Mr Van der Ven, I would like to draw attention to the many reports that have appeared in the media when the Work and Security Act was introduced. Employers then indicated that workers would lose their jobs rather than reducing the maximum time limit for the chain determination after two years. Of course, you can also see in practice that employees are exchanged for another employee with a temporary contract if they are likely to come close for two years. The government received the confirmation during the internet consultation of the WAB of employers that the adjustment of the chain determination is very welcome. I therefore say to Mr Köhler that I do not want to wait for the evaluation on this point and that I want to include this part in this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u40	The Minister brings in a new element on this point. He says that you see in practice that employers have only been giving people a contract for two years and that they are replacing it with another employee. Does he have any figures on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u41	Mr Köhler is right: we have not been waiting for the evaluation of the Work and Security Act, precisely because of the social signals that emerged on this point. Again, the tendency is to consider all these measures in the Labour Market Act separately. I regard them more as a coherent part of measures. One thing that is very positive for employees is the introduction of the transition fee from day one. One reason not to offer a permanent contract is that you are entitled to that transition fee. On the other hand, there is more flexibility for the employer in the chain determination. There is also a political balance in this. This attempt is being made to break the hours spent on the labour market with these temporary contracts. But if Mr Köhler asks "do you have any figures?', Then I have to say: no, there are hardly any. However, there are a great many indications and signals that it is actually happening in practice that workers are fired just before the end of a two-year contract and that someone else is hired. I refer, for example, to the 7-8-8-construction. That construction with 7 months, 8 months, 8 months results in 23 months of a contract, leaving you just under 2 years, and so you hire another employee. But Mr Köhler is right: we have not been waiting for the evaluation of the Work and Security Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u42	Apart from that evaluation, we all know that you did not want to wait and see; we already knew that in the coalition agreement, you have an argument if you say that it is already in practice. You're even saying it turns out to be a lot of times. Isn't that what you can only say when you have figures? What's "extremely often"? Do you receive thousands of signals, or hundreds? Or have you heard it twice from an employer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u43	Employers don't tell you this. You hear these signals, especially from employees. They say: over time I will be fired; then someone else will be hired in my place and I can start the next temporary contract again. So it's also a kind of carousel. These social signals, I have also referred to them in the explanatory memorandum, have given rise to a review of this total of flex-side measures. Mr Köhler is right: we do not have these figures. But those signals are definitely there. We also got back the signals from employers who said "this actually only leads to earlier dismissals" when the Act was introduced, in the internet consultation of this law. It is true that stretching the chain clause simply leads to greater flexibility and more opportunities for employers to cope with the differences in production, precisely in order to break those hours on the labour market.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u44	Finally, Mr Köhler. Oh, no, you didn't want to say anything more. Mrs. Sent would like to say something.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u45	Very briefly. I find it very problematic to refer to social signals without them being substantiated. That makes it very complicated for this Chamber to assess how desirable it is to adapt that chain clause. In this context, I am very curious to hear the Minister's assessment of the steps taken by the German Government to precisely limit the maximum period of the chain from 24 to 18 months, with exactly the same objective as the current government has.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u46	A little further down in my text, this question is also mentioned as a question from Mr Nagel and Mrs Sent. Complicated about this separate question is that this is part of a broader set of institutional arrangements. You can't separate it from transition compensation, dismissal protection and all kinds of other arrangements. In Germany the proposal has indeed been made to shorten the chain clause from 24 to 18 months, but I think you should have a broader institutional outline of the differences between fixed and flex in Germany. If I recall correctly from the OECD analyses of employment protection schemes, the difference between fixed and flex in Germany is much smaller than in the Netherlands. I don't think you can put it one-on-one together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u47	Are there any other signals coming out of society in Germany?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u48	In any case, I know that Germany has only recently re-established the minimum wage following the 2003 reforms of Mr Schröder, the Hartz reforms. So it is complicated to compare institutional arrangements one-on-one anyway. I can see that in Germany, but very broad in Europe, there is the same search for the balance between fixed and flex. The same search is made, for example, for how we react to the platform economy. When I speak to my German colleague, we are also talking about how we are dealing with the new challenges to labour law. Mr Ester asked about the position of temporary invaders in primary and special education. With the entry into force of this legislative proposal, temporary employment contracts concluded in primary and special education with substitute workers who replace a permanent teacher for illness will be excluded from the chain determination. This means that work can be done on a temporary basis to replace a sick teacher. If these workers are on call, they will of course be prevented from being permanently available. They must also be called up for at least four days and the employer must offer them a contract if the contract lasts longer than 12 months. So that's what the same provisions apply. Mrs Sent asked whether the exception to the supply chain clause would improve the force of intervention. Let me begin by stressing that this exception is limited to the replacement of a teacher for illness. Research has shown that short-term replacements by many invaders are not found attractive because they quickly reach the maximum of the chain determination at a school or a school board for which they prefer to work. These were also the signals from the social partners a number of years ago, which are actually the basis of this part of the legislative proposal. As a result, governance has a lot of difficulty finding sufficient temporary invaders for short-term replacements. The bottleneck is thus addressed, so that the design of the employment relationship is in line with the needs of both the employer and the employee. In the explanatory statement, I gave a detailed account of this examination and of the requests made by the social partners and their design. By the way, I do not intend to make any other exceptions to the chain clause. Mrs. Sent asked for this. There is, of course, also room to deviate from collective agreements if the intrinsic nature of business requires this. Mrs Oomen asked whether the criteria could be made more specific. As a cabinet and government, we would like to leave this to the collective bargaining parties, who can offer tailor-made work at sectoral level to make different agreements. Employers' and workers' organisations are involved in this together. They can better assess what is truly intrinsic to the nature of the services and business. This is already being used in practice. For example, the VSNU, the Association of Universities, makes an exception in its collective agreement with regard to the recruitment policy of researchers, precisely in order to make tailor-made work possible there again. This is done with the agreement of the trade union movement. I believe that the parties' freedom of negotiation is also the right way to proceed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u49	I have two questions about that. The parties' freedom of negotiation is restricted if it is incorporated into the Civil Code. I have indicated that labour market considerations do not belong in the Civil Code. The second question is the following. The social partners have proposed a maximum of 36 months. I don't see that coming back in the present bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u50	I just need to dig into my own memory. The social partners have requested that this derogation be incorporated into the legislation. That request was received in mid-2017, I say memorized. My predecessor, Mr Asscher, has made a temporary arrangement for this. It has now been made permanent in this legislation, precisely at the request of the social partners in this sector. In the explanatory statement, I have explained in detail why we, as a cabinet, consider this to be fair, also because there are simply fewer opportunities within primary education for intermediate hours, other than, for example, in secondary education. In primary education this is a real problem and we also see every year, especially in winter and spring, that there is a major social problem. That is why we have incorporated this into the legislation in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u51	Mrs. Sent just a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u52	Finally. Maybe I don't understand. If I understand correctly the legislative proposal before us, that leaves aside the maximation in the case of invaders, where the social partners have proposed a maximum of 36 months.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u53	If you don't mind, I'll come back to that in the second term. On that side, yes is nodded, but I can't really appreciate this. In my memory, the social partners had asked for infinity, but I will come back to that in the second term. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the measures relating to payroll. A lot of questions have been asked about that. These measures are also part of the package to achieve the new labour market balance. The cabinet considers payrolling to be a legitimate and necessary tool to take care of businesses in their tasks. As an employer, the payroll company can perform the various employers' tasks well, for example with regard to the payment of wages, sickness, reintegration obligations and also training. Payrolling in itself therefore considers the Cabinet a legitimate instrument, but the Cabinet considers it undesirable that the choice should result in less good working conditions or less good legal status for the employee. Payrolling should not be used as a means to compete on working conditions. The cost differences between own employees and payroll workers are undesirable. This has been the case in recent years, in particular by the trade union movement, because employers who do not use payroll are unfairly disadvantaged in terms of competition. Many business organisations therefore want a level playing field to prevent competition on working conditions and companies from operating under the collective agreement and thus competing unfairly. That is why the legislative proposal strongly aligns the legal status and working conditions of payroll. I must say that as much as possible is equal to the employees who are directly employed by the client. This also has to do with the special position of payroll forces, because they have been recruited and selected by the client or someone else and work exclusively for the client, but the employership is carried out by the payroll employer. Because a payroll employer does not have a so-called allocation function, payroll workers deserve the same position as employees who are directly employed by the client. Payroll forces are entitled to the same conditions of employment, for example a thirteenth month. That is not the case now. Also, there can be no longer any temp clause in the contract. In this way, the legal situation has been levelled. Of course, this legislation must be enforceable for employers, for the principals and also for the employees. Therefore, special arrangements have been made for collective agreements and pension schemes and the client is also made responsible for communicating the terms of employment to the payroll company. As you may know, there is also an initiative law of the SP, GroenLinks and the Labour Party in the Lower House. Compared to that initiative law, the cabinet has adapted a number of parts, precisely for the purposes of feasibility, so as to make it possible. This is particularly about the pension side, which I will come back to later. Payroll workers working in a company or sector in which a pension scheme applies shall be entitled to an adequate pension scheme. In many cases, this will give them a better pension. This will prevent unfair competition on working conditions. The proposal prevents the payroll employers from having the difficult task of joining many different pension schemes. That was the Council of State's criticism of the other initiative proposal, which assumed that you had to join the pension scheme of the sector itself. This would lead to a great deal of administrative burdens and complex implementation. That is why we have chosen to join an average pension fund. Mr Rinnooy Kan asked whether the measures in the area of payrolling now lead to an improvement in the situation of individual workers. Indeed, I believe that this bill improves the position of payroll workers, because workers currently employed on a payroll basis are entitled to the same working conditions as those employed directly by the user. The exact difference in pay between payroll workers and employees who are directly employed is not known. That is also different from one situation to another. A lot of payroll workers follow the ABU-cao, for example. There are also payroll employers who do comply with the conditions of employment of the user company. However, no figures are available. What is known, also in response to signals from the trade union movement, is that there can be large differences in pay and actually exist. A payroll power covered by the ABU-cao, i.e. the collective agreement of the General Confederation of Broadcast Enterprises, which has been declared generally binding, is not entitled to a thirteen-month period, no right to an individual selection budget, no right to additional holidays in relation to age or length of employment and to a supplement to the WW and WIA benefits. There may also be differences in pay for sickness and holidays. The difference depends on the sector, but there are differences. It is also not surprising that some payroll companies are resisting this bill, because payrolling is also becoming more expensive in some sectors, as Mr Van de Ven rightly said, because you are aligning working conditions. Companies considering the use of payrolling will have to make a new assessment. Payrolling will not be more cheaper than hiring an employee directly. That is why it will also be more attractive to employ these workers directly. If the employer wants to be cared for in all these obligations, he could still continue to use payrolling. This is what the cabinet really considers to be a legitimate form of care relief, especially for SME employers. Companies already working with payroll workers will also have to make this assessment. These workers will in many cases become more expensive because they will have more rights and better working conditions. These companies must consider whether they want to continue to payroll or hire these workers. Then there's the position of payroll companies. I think it is justified that payroll companies that offer less working conditions should be confronted with these cost increases. The aim of this proposal is to prevent competition on working conditions within a sector or company. These costs will also be passed on to clients. I also hear Mr Rinnooy Kan and Mr Ganzevoort's concern that payroll companies might be looking for other ways and that these workers would suddenly be regarded as temporary workers, a different type of waterbed effect. Indeed, the fact that there will be companies following this route is likely, because there will be cost differences between payrolls and broadcasting. This is indeed an incentive to use another regime. However, employees who are now employed by an employee as a payroll employee cannot suddenly be labeled as a temporary worker, while they continue to perform the same function with the user. The employee has already been recruited and selected for the job and not by his employer. In that case, there is payrolling and it will continue to be. Similarly, workers who are first employed directly by the user and then employed on a payroll basis cannot suddenly be classified as temporary workers. For the future, that could be a risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u54	Not only for the future, but also for people who are now in that situation. If a payroll company wants to make that transition, these people run the risk of being evicted, perhaps being eligible for another regime. Apart from that, the costs of payrolls must be changed. The question is how then the security for these people will be guaranteed. Perhaps you could say a little more about it, just before that transitional phase.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u55	I just tried to point out that the payroll contract cannot be converted into a temporary employment contract in one go. It's just contracts, especially since it's often about exclusive posting to one company. This is also one of the reasons why clients want to use payroll forces, because they are made exclusively available to one employer for an extended period of time, as opposed to temporary employment contracts. Again, in my view, this remains possible, even in the case of the new legislation. Although you cannot compete with this construction on terms of employment, I believe that GroenLinks is also very much in favour of tackling it, but the care function remains. I do not want to run away from the fact that contracts will end and a new situation will arise. At the same time, the labour market is very tight at the moment. Employers are looking for people. This morning, in the last CBS figures, we also saw that the share of fixed contracts in the last period was affected by this cyclical situation. If there is a time to do this, then it is now, and not in a period of low economics.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u56	Today's NRC contains a piece on plans to circumvent the payroll law, with the text: payroll companies already know how to avoid the law that the Senate discusses on Monday. I would very much like to hear from the Minister what he is going to do if this kind of bypass is indeed undertaken and proved successful. How's he gonna protect the fakes?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u57	In this respect, fortunately, there are active social partners who can bring this before a judge. That happens all the time. We have a clear regime for the future. The social partners may request enforcement. The Inspection SZW can also play a role in this. Then, of course, the facts and circumstances are guiding the assessment of the situation. I myself find it somewhat odd that parties should put in a newspaper that a new law will come into effect and that they will figure out how to circumvent it. That's point one. We just have enforcement for that. The second point is that I think that clients are indeed sensitive to legislation. A lot of clients just want to do it nicely. They do not want to use a construction every time, but want to be cared for with the law in hand. They want to be helped in terms of reintegration obligations, payment of wages and dismissals, and do not need to use all kinds of phony structures to prevent this, with a high risk to their image. So it's a combination with enforcement. The social partners have been designated for this in the Dutch system. That happens all the time. Trade unions often bring cases to the courts to check them, possibly supported by the SZW Inspection, with a report on them. That works very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u58	I would like to be convinced by the Minister that enforcement is the solution to this problem. What role does he see for himself? Does he also envisage the possibility of additional legislation being needed to protect the tempest?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u59	I recently had a discussion with the House of Representatives about contracting, about the WAADI, the Wet allocation labor by intermediaries. The measures I have announced are indeed about new discussions within the broadcasting industry, including on the platform economy. Is that, for example, temporary work, or is that really self-employed work? Last Monday, I sent a letter to your Chamber with a number of announcements of actions in which we will work together with the social partners to deal with unwanted forms of avoidance and evasion. This includes thinking about administrative enforcement on this side, i.e. through the inspection SZW. That's what we're working on right now. The WAADI will be evaluated more quickly. Originally this would happen in 2020, but I brought this forward precisely because there are all kinds of signals, and also because the House of Representatives, Mr Heerma and Mr Van Weyenberg, called on me to look at this more specifically. That's what I'm doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u60	I've heard some very nice things from this minister. He says he's always gonna make it possible for payroll to take care of small businesses. One. Two, then he says there's got to be a level playing field. How do you achieve that level playing field? By making payroll more expensive. Then there'll be new contracts. And in that new contract, I'm not a payroller anymore, but I'm going to broadcast. So that means something to that employee. What's in it for him? 'Cause it's evasive behavior.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u61	I cannot deny what Mrs Oomen says. The first point is that the equalization of working conditions, not only the user's remuneration, but also the thirteenth month and that kind of thing, leads to higher costs. Mrs Oomen is right about that. That's gonna make payroll forces more expensive. The second element making them more expensive is the pension scheme. The employer's contribution of 13.6% must be in line with the average of the Netherlands. The broadcasting clause for payroll contracts is also repealed. That's gonna make it more expensive. On the one hand, this can mean strengthening, strengthening their position for payroll forces. This means that there is no competition on working conditions and that it is a desirable development for sectors and industries. Otherwise, companies would continue to compete unfairly. On the other hand, Mrs Oomen is right in saying that broadcasting is the alternative, where you do have other labour-conditional arrangements. Well, the ABU-cao loan does apply, but for example, there is no thirteenth month and that kind of thing. The broadcasting regime will then continue to apply. Again, the situation on the labour market is very tight. I have just said this in the direction of Mrs Sent. I don't think all employers are gonna be able to trade payrolls for agency workers. These will be two separate, clear regimes that are both possible under Dutch law: a temp and a payroll force. You prevent unfair competition in the workplace between people who are employed and those who have been made available via a payroll construction exclusively for a longer period of time. This is often the hallmark of payroll: for a longer term, exclusive to one company. Mrs. Oomen says something outside the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u62	I want to say it out loud, too. That's what you can do with temporary workers. You can have it for a long time. They also have no position equivalent to the position of the user's employees. There are also a number of pieces missing. With regard to the pension scheme, they depend on StiPP. Then you know and I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u63	Mrs Oomen is right about that. At the same time, the ABU and NBBU cao have a phase layout. If a temporary agency worker has a contract for a longer period, it goes from phase a to phase b, from phase b to phase c, with higher hourly wages, more rights and also more pension building in the StiPP Plus scheme. That has a structure in that collective agreement. Mrs Oomen is right that there is a risk. At the same time, equalization of working conditions for a large group prevents unfair competition on working conditions. That is a direction which is widely shared politically and which Mrs Oomen also shares. In my introduction I made a lot of comments, when it comes to the waterbed effect towards zzp. It is incredibly important inzzp that it is not just possible. The facts and circumstances shall determine whether there is an exercise on the basis of an agreement or contract, or the adoption of work on the basis of an independent profession or business, or whether there is an employment contract. That is also part of this enforcement that we are now going to extend step by step. Mrs Sent and Mr Nagel asked about the effects of a ban on long-term posting to third parties. I am against banning the long-term or permanent posting of a third party, because it also affects long-term temporary work structures. I don't think so. The cabinet does not intend to do that either, because this would mean that workers would no longer be able to be made available as temporary workers or payroll workers for a long time, whereas flexibility is sometimes needed. Again, the cabinet won't forbid it. Legitimate forms remain possible, as payrolling plays a useful role in the labour market. Payrolling allows the client, especially small companies, to be taken care of in the tasks he would otherwise have had to perform as an employer and for which he simply does not have the expertise, time or capacity for. This concerns the employer's responsibilities in the fields of training, reintegration into sickness, pay transfer, guidance and other employers' responsibilities. Moreover, I do understand the concerns of various parties about the long-term separation between formal and material employership and the consequences that this has for those involved. That is why I gave this to the Committee on the Regulation of Work, the Borstlap Committee. As part of its mission, that committee will look into this. Mr Ganzevoort asked for a ban on specific payrolling. This is a more limited ban than a ban on long-term posting. I repeat that the cabinet believes that payrolling plays a useful role in the labour market. We want to keep it, and that's why I'm not considering banning it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u64	The Minister particularly mentions the small employer. I get the idea of taking care of it. I said in my contribution that we see payrolling also occur in larger companies. In certain situations they also use payrolling, when they don't really need it, because they don't need it to take care of. How does the Minister see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u65	The idea behind this bill is to harmonise working conditions and prevent unfair competition, whether it be in a small or a large company. In smaller companies I see more the added value of caring for the employer, because he is simply engaged in entrepreneurship and finds all these tasks complicated. This can bring real added value. When it comes to larger companies, it can also have a function, but that often has the smell of "smell" what do you call it? It's a kind of circumvention structure. With this legislation, we are trying to do this on both sides. In fact, working conditions are being levelled to prevent unfair competition. So I think Mr Ganzevoort actually agrees with the cabinet on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u66	That's pretty quick.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u67	I can try.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u68	You can try, yes. You can think about a certain button that you could run to make payrolling possible or not. I have another follow-up question on the maintenance of the equalisation of working conditions. Then there is always the question: how do you compare it within a sector and can an employee use it if the precise conditions of employment, of which there is only one, are not fully understood and is not clear what its comparability is? In what way can the employee enforce that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u69	The law is giving it a clear picture now. In practice, the following is now happening. You have the user reward, but I have just mentioned a number of elements that may differ, such as the thirteenth month, the supplement for WIA and WW and that kind of points. This is aligned with the law. The client is therefore required by law to offer the same employment conditions package as he offers to his regular employees. This is a clear legal framework, which allows the individual worker, but also the trade union movement, to say: something is happening here that is not in line with the law. If this is the case, you can also maintain and go to court. Moreover, a large part of our whole system is that social partners themselves carry out a lot of enforcement, precisely because in practice they run into these examples and say: we do not want to do so, so we go to court with them. The legal framework is very clear in that sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u70	Finally, Mr. Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u71	But this presupposes transparency and clarity of the data on working conditions in a sector or in a company. The question is, as I believe the Minister said earlier, whether transparency and clarity are always there. If there aren't, enforcement is a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u72	In my view, Mr Ganzevoort underestimates practice and how many trade unions maintain in this kind of way if they get signals that there is inequality in working conditions between employees within a company. I don't see the biggest risk there. It is also very clearly defined: you get the same terms of employment as the employee. Finally, Mr Van de Ven asked whether payroll companies could still carry out their care tasks in the proposed premium differentiation of 5 percentage points, with a distinction between fixed and flexible contracts. In the existing systems, payroll companies for the WW premium are covered by the temporary agency sector, with corresponding high WW premiums, or, if they mainly broadcast to one sector, in another sector. There has been a period of exemption to be classified in another sector. My predecessor froze that at some point, because he saw that it was being handled strategically creatively. The new system of premium differentiation aims at a low premium for employers who offer a fixed contract and a high premium for employees who have a flexible contract. The same system applies to employees employed by a payroll company and to employees employed by an ordinary company. Payroll companies which offer a fixed contract therefore pay the same low premium as employers where employees are directly employed. It is about the nature of the contract. So if an employee is employed for a long time at a payroll company, that pays the low premium. It can therefore be an advantage to offer a contract for an indefinite period. For a permanent contract with payroll companies, no higher premium is therefore applicable than for employees with permanent contracts with other companies. Mr Van de Ven also asked for payrolling in relation to equal treatment. Payrolling indeed creates a difference in treatment between payroll workers and temporary workers. I believe that this difference is justified. Payrolling involves an employee who is not recruited and selected by his employer but by a third party and is made exclusively available to the user. That's different from the temp structure, which isn't exclusive. This payroll employee is treated equally with an employee who is directly employed by the user. Therefore, the distinction is not contrary to equal treatment legislation. They are two separate legal regimes. Finally, Mr Van de Ven asked for a commitment that in the example he mentioned, in which a temporary employment agency lends five employees to another agency, which makes these workers available, there should be broadcasting rather than the new payroll regime. This case was also discussed in the reply. I indicated at that time that in this case there is indeed no payrolling but broadcasting. I think it is important that I commit this to Mr Van de Ven in this legal process too. After all, the temporary agency which lends its employees to another temporary agency remains formally the employer and has recruited and selected the employee himself. In this case, he played an active role in bringing supply and demand together in the labour market. Whether there is a similar case depends on the specific circumstances, but in this case I can be clear; it continues to broadcast.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u73	Mr. Van de Ven? Yeah, you were just standing there waiting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u74	No, that's totally correct. I was also concerned with other case positions because you cannot always catch everything, but the Minister has just confirmed that this will also apply in similar case positions. So I thank the Minister very much for this explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u75	You're welcome. Several speakers, Mr Rinnooy Kan and Mr Van de Ven, also expressed concerns about the definition, including in the written report on the explanatory statement. With the definition and the indications in the Explanatory Memorandum, I have provided employers and employees with sufficient tools to determine whether payrolling or broadcasting is involved in their case. That is what I have done in response to criticism from the Council of State. There have been added indications to give more clarity about what payrolling is and what isn't. Employers know very well what role they have played in the recruitment and selection of workers. By the way, in communication, extra attention will be paid to informing clients. If there is a need for care, small businesses can continue to use payrolling with confidence. I also avoid the definition of broadcasting being affected by making a distinction between regular broadcasting and pay-rolling. If a temporary worker fulfils his or her assigned function to the temporary worker, he or she shall not be affected by the legislative proposal. I therefore do not expect temporary employment agencies to be deterred from making people work. Mrs Oomen also asks for specific possible problems with the definition of payrolling, for example in procurement situations. I believe the definition of payrolling is clear. Of course, there will be situations that some parties did not previously see as payrolling but that are qualified as payrolling after the bill. One example of this, Mrs Oomen, has also said this in her contribution "is the transfer of procurement, whereby one contracting party is taken over by the other contracting party. In the event of a subsequent call for tenders or a subsequent call for tenders, the existing temporary agency workers often switch to the next temporary agency. That's what the client often wants. He also often wants to take the people, the experience. This is not the case with the existing contract of employment, but with a new contract between the employee, the new user and the existing client. In that case, the definition of payrolling is fulfilled. There is no allocation of the new employer. The employee had already been recruited and selected for the job and not by the new temporary agency which then becomes an employer. So there has been no allocation. I do not agree that this leads to an unacceptable situation. Employers and borrowers have different possibilities here. First of all, if the user attaches to the specific temporary agency workers, he may decide to hire those workers directly or to have them employed with the new employer on a payroll basis. An employee may also remain in service with his current temporary worker as a temporary worker. I think that is very important to say in this legal process. If he stays temp, he'll be loaned to the other temp agency. In fact, that is the example of Mr Van de Ven I was just talking about. You can do that construction. Then it also remains a temporary contract, whereby one is loaned out to the user. Again, when it comes to taking over the contract, it is often the user's wish that those specific employees remain available because of their knowledge and expertise. In the latter situation, it simply continues to be broadcast. I hope that this will also reassure Mrs Oomen and Mr Van de Ven on that point. It is up to the contracting authority to take this into account in the procurement process, but, once again, many borrowers do, of course, want to retain that specific labour force, because they are already working and have specific know-how on the work that is taking place there. That is also possible in this way. I hope I have been able to deal with some unrest there. Thirdly, during the written preparation and also today, much attention has been paid to the obligation of a payroll employer to ensure an adequate pension scheme. That was also the discussion in the Lower House. I believe that a motion on which pension legislation has to comply has been passed in plenary. The conditions of employment are being levelled, but it must remain practicable. That is why we have been looking for a system that is also feasible for companies. We have joined an average of the employer's contribution across the Netherlands. If you had to comply with all the specific pension schemes in all the different sectors, it would become really impossible. Then you get big administrative burdens and unclearness. So we have chosen to create an adequate pension scheme. Let me explain how that works. An adequate pension scheme for payrollers can be completed in two ways. This can be done in the first place by allowing payroll employees to participate in the pension scheme that the client applies to comparable employees. There is also the possibility of participating in the regular pension scheme. This can be done by concluding a pension scheme which fulfils the conditions to be laid down by AMvB. The conditions laid down by AMvB for an adequate pension scheme do not go beyond "necessary to prevent competition on working conditions at macro level." With this I am also carrying out the Van Weyenberg motion c.s. to ensure that a payroll employer is obliged to pay at least the average employer's contribution in the Netherlands, to provide for old-age and survivors' pensions and not to apply a waiting period. The latter was also a special focus in the motion that was almost Chamberwide adopted in the Lower House. This leaves room for own interpretation but is based on what is common in the Netherlands on average. Mr Van de Ven asked me whether payroll workers in sectors where no pension is being built, with the new AMvB in contrast to the current situation, do not build up a pension. This bill entitles a payroller to an adequate pension if, in short, the comparable employee of the user is entitled to a pension scheme. That is indeed the condition laid down in the regulation, in the sense of preventing unfair competition on working conditions. So Mr Van de Ven is right: if there is no pension scheme, then this adequate pension scheme does not apply either. This is another problem: that there are white spots in the Netherlands, that there is no pension scheme in some sectors. In another conversation with the social partners, we drew attention to this, namely in the pension talks. Mr Van de Ven also asked about the situation that a payroll employer should have an adequate pension scheme. This obligation applies even if a payroll employer does not fall within the scope of StiPP. This adequate pension scheme can be designed in two ways. The first, as I have just said, is to join the sponsor's pension scheme, the borrower's. Or you can make your own pension scheme. Mr Rinnooy Kan, Mr Van de Ven and Mrs Oomen asked about the AMvB for a payroller pension. There are indeed many questions about this, which were also raised in the written round. We've also been in contact with StiPP. I also understand very well that it is complex, complex legislation and that it takes time to work it out properly. Mr Ester also asked for this. I am prepared to take this complexity into account when setting the date of introduction of the payroll pension scheme. In the context of the internet consultation, the pension fund of the temporary agency industry, the StiPP, has indicated that an adequate pension scheme can only be implemented after the decision has been published. The parties concerned have informed us that they need four quarters for careful implementation. Thus, StiPP does not consider it feasible to enter into force on 1 January 2020. The ABU and the NBBU, the two skylights, also have major objections to the early entry into force due to the complexity. It would also lead to implementation technical problems. It's a complicated arrangement. Retirement is just complicated. That is why I am also prepared to meet the sector in this by postponing the entry into force of the obligation to provide an adequate pension scheme for payroll workers until 1 January 2021. That also gives us time to do this in a proper way. In this context, Mr Van de Ven asked whether there would be any confusion in the event of a postponement of the AMvB. My answer is no. It is precisely because payroll workers are subject to the same working conditions as the user that they are, that clarity is created as from 1 January 2020. The right to an adequate pension scheme will then apply from 1 January 2021 in order to allow the parties to agree on that adequate pension scheme as well. Mr Rinnooy asked if this payroll pension scheme could be put forward so that the Chamber could give its opinion. There is no formal advance procedure for this Decision. This must be regulated by the law. You have also received the decision for the internet consultation that has taken place as an annex to the reply. Following the internet consultation phase, the decision is now being adapted to a number of aspects. It is possible to send this draft decision to your Chamber in two weeks' time. Then I would like to give you four weeks, as with a formal veil, to respond to this. The amended decision will then be forwarded to the Council of State. In doing so, there is de facto a procedure for the Court of Justice to deal with these rules. Finally, in the block of flexibility, a few questions about the call for action. Many questions were asked about this in the written round, in particular on compliance and enforcement. Mrs. Sent asked about it in her contribution this afternoon. Whether and how employees implement their rights ultimately depends on different factors. I recognise that it is sometimes difficult for some individual workers to take the step to enforce their rights, because they are at risk of not being called up anymore. That is why we have turned it around in the legislative proposal. From 12 months onwards, the bill encourages the employer to make an offer. I know that Mrs Sent has asked about the capacity and nudging, behavioral economy. From that point of view, we have, as it were, reversed the system in this law in order to impose more obligations on the employer. We know that in practice there are very few employees who are going to get their own rights. That was the thought of the reversal in the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u76	In this context, could the Minister just as specifically consider the four-day call period and the extent to which employees will make use of it, given their limited capacity to act if it is not met?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u77	Mrs Sent is right about that. That is a complicated point in practice. This will also be the case if employers give structural support to this, it will be a matter for trade unions to achieve their rights here. Individual workers, especially those who depend on a call contract, are simply not so strong here. That's right. At the same time, as the written answers to the Chamber say, there is a legal obligation here, people can get their rights and there can also be an example for bad employers that they are tapped on their fingers by the judge. In this context, Mrs Oomen asked for the mandatory supply of work to be maintained after 12 months. The employer's obligation to offer permanent size after 12 months shall also apply to persons employed on a temporary contract of employment. Here too, I realise that it may be difficult for some callers to obtain their rights, but I believe that there are sufficient tools on various parts, such as the indication on the pay slip and the right to pay if no offer is made for the employee, to ensure that the employee is also entitled. From that point of view, I have reversed the burden of proof and built in a number of safeguards, precisely in order to strengthen this part, including learning from the ability to act. Following a question from Mrs Sent, I have promised to come back to it in the second term. Here's the deal. The social partners, including educational associations, have anticipated the debate... It is about primary education, about the desire to exclude those invaders who replace them for illness from the chain determination of up to 36 months. In doing so, they have supported the fact that substitute workers in primary education are a special group for which such an exception is justified. I have granted this request, allowing collective bargaining parties to limit this exception to 36 months. However, in the first period I suggested that the social partners asked for the exception in the SAB. That's not the case, so I apologize for that. I thought I could remember that, but it turns out that's not right. The social partners therefore remain free to determine by collective agreement that the chain determination applies after 36 months. So that remains also the freedom of negotiation of the social partners in this sector. With that, I've done the block of flexible work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u78	I see that Mrs Sent and Mr Ganzevoort are jumping, but I say to both: one interruption, because if I can, I do not want to be done with this much later than midnight. You'll also get a second term. I also think that the Minister is extremely willing to answer all the questions. So each one interrupting at the moment. And how many more cubes would you do, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u79	I have here a block of dismissal rights, an extensive block with lots of questions, then a block about premium differentiation WW and a small block of other, which is not that much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u80	Well, you just heard my comment about midnight from me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u81	I'm going to do my best, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u82	Okay. Oh, Mrs. Sent is sitting down. He's so freaked out about this. Mr. Ganzevoort, one, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u83	I'm gonna stick to one, even if she sits down. On the issue of flex, call forces and the like, and the steady supply after a year, the question was not only how the employee can achieve this, but also what incentives the employer has in this area to end it, for example, within that year or simply not invite the call force anymore. It's all well-meaning and we support it, but is it going to work or are employers just going to avoid it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u84	There's definitely a risk of evasive action. That's right. At the same time, I have outlined the following to Mrs Sent: it is now the case that the worker himself must obtain his right. After that 12-month period, we are now, as it were, reversing the burden of proof, also from the capacity of employees themselves. This means that employers have a duty to offer this. That will certainly be an additional incentive to offer people that contract for an indefinite period of time or a longer flex contract and to give that assurance if they are indeed called up for so many hours in the last year. Mr Ganzevoort also agrees with the cabinet that continuing to depend on a long-term call contract is not conducive to the employee either. This is an attempt to address and make it executable and to effect it for the employee. At the same time, I agree with Mr Ganzevoort: if people want to get out, they can always do so. Then they can just end it by a year. But with all the other measures, we are trying to make fixed contracts more attractive. I'll mention the premium differentiation, the right of dismissal and that sort of thing. That is why I keep saying that it fits in a broader part of the labour market in balance. Mr. Chairman. Then the right of dismissal. That's the third block. It concerns in particular the cumulation ground and the transition fee. Here, this part is really intended to make the fixed contract more attractive compared to the flexible contracts. Employers are now too reluctant to offer employees a permanent contract, which means that workers are at work too often and for too long on the basis of a flexible contract. That is because the rules of dismissal are now so strict, I say in response to Mr Ganzevoort's question. The OECD has also pointed this out with the Employment Protection Indicator. If the employer is confident that he can fire an employee when necessary, employers will be more willing to offer employees a permanent contract. Existing research shows that more dissolution requests have been rejected since the introduction of the WWZ. A dismissal ground must be fully satisfied before it leads to dissolution. Inadmissibility simply cannot be dissolved and it pinches. Mr Ester and Mrs Sent asked me to better justify the need for the cumulation ground. I'll make the comparison with the dissolution practice before the WWZ. Four times as many dissolution requests are now rejected as before the introduction of the WWZ. This is 9% for the WWZ compared to 36% in the first three years after the introduction of the WWZ. Research carried out by Erasmus University in 2018 shows this. The fact that so many more requests for dissolution are rejected is a sign that this regulation breaks down. If you increase the right of dismissal, you reduce the risk for employers when entering into the permanent contract. They are less reluctant to offer this. The need for this also confirms the input to the internet consultation. I am now going to mention a number of experts and bodies which are positive about the introduction of the cumulation ground. The Vereniging Arbeidsrecht Lawyeren Nederland, Vaan, is positive about the cumulation ground. The Council of State welcomed the introduction of the cumulation ground. In an opinion on the legislative proposal, the Judicial Council also indicated that the introduction of a cumulation ground could give the judge more room for manoeuvre and that the judge would also be expected to use this space. Several experts, including at the roundtables in the Lower House and also in the Upper Chamber, have also expressed a positive opinion on the cumulation ground. I would like to quote a number of experts, because I found that in the first period the experts were somewhat selectively quoted. Professor Laagland of the University of Nijmegen was very positive about the cumulation ground. Professor Wilthagen of the University of Tilburg was positive about the cumulation ground. Professor Peters of the University of Groningen is positive about the introduction of the cumulation ground. Mr Van Gelderen, labour law attorney, welcomed the introduction of the cumulation ground. Mr Keulaerds, I also saw here tonight, is positive about the introduction of the cumulation ground. He's nodding. Mrs Dingemans, chairman of the Vaan, the Association of Labour Law Lawyers Netherlands, is positive about the cumulation ground. Mr Besselink, labour law lawyer, also welcomed the introduction of the cumulation ground. So there are a lot of bodies and experts who do see that there is a gap here that is resolved with this bill. Why I'm going through this whole list so extensively is that I've only heard some experts today and I wanted to put the other picture to that, I'll say. This undisputed list of positive reactions to the cumulation ground is based on the fact that in practice there are situations in which the court finds the termination of the contract of employment justified while one of the reasonable grounds for dismissal is not fully satisfied. In the present system of dismissals, judges may not terminate the contract of employment, whereas in reasonable terms the employer may no longer be required to continue the contract of employment. Then there is insufficient customization. The cumulation ground will lighten this. Conditions arising from two or more dismissal grounds, such as dysfunction and a distorted relationship, may lead to dissolution, but of course only in so far as the court considers that the employer cannot be required to continue the contract in the specific case. Hence the measure to make it possible to fire even in the event of a sum of circumstances. Mrs Oomen asked whether there was a need for cumulation in view of some of the decisions of the Supreme Court which would show that practice had settled. I think she is referring to the decisions of the Supreme Court of February 2018 which ruled on the legal right of evidence in the winding-up proceedings. As a result, legal practice has been given greater certainty as to the scope available to the judge in assessing a reasonable ground, but there are situations where it cannot be sufficiently plausible that there is a single, reasonable ground. If, however, there are circumstances from different grounds of dismissal which together make it reasonable not to require the employer to maintain the employment contract, the judge with the current grounds for dismissal cannot escape. It won't be possible to disband. The cumulation ground is therefore still needed, despite the ruling of the Supreme Court at the beginning of last year. The cumulation ground shall be added to the existing reasonable grounds for dismissal. It is important to stress that the closed system of dismissal grounds is also maintained with the introduction of the cumulation ground. I'm not gonna change that with this bill. However, in practice, there may be circumstances from several grounds of dismissal which together justify dismissal, where the canton court must have the space to dissolve. Then the cumulation ground makes that possible. This is a combination of two or more grounds for dismissal in such a way that the continuation of the contract of employment cannot reasonably be required of the employer. Of course, it cannot be that the employee can simply be thrown out. That is why I have designed this extension of the right of dismissal in such a way that the employee is adequately protected against dismissal and that he can receive an additional redundancy allowance of up to 50% of a transition fee on the basis of the cumulation ground. Mr Schalk of the SGP asked how this proposal would contribute to the labour market balance and whether the introduction of the cumulation ground would not upset the balance. With the establishment I have just outlined, the government has tried to strike a balance between the interests of employers and employees without compromising legal certainty. I would like to outline a little more context in this measure. Since the WWZ, the law has established a closed system of reasonable dismissal grounds. If the employer and the employee do not emerge from each other, a preventive check shall be made as to whether the employer may terminate the contract of employment. For termination for a reason situated in the person of the employee or in the relationship between the employer and the employee, the employer must ask the court to terminate the contract of employment. There are situations in which circumstances arise from different grounds of dismissal which are in themselves insufficient for dismissal on one of the grounds of dismissal, but if all these circumstances can be taken into account together, a situation may arise that the continuation of the contract of employment can reasonably no longer be required of the employer. Mr Schalk asked whether the land to be accumulated should be increased to 100%. In the case of cumulation, it is not a question of percentages, it is of course complicated to indicate the percentage by which you meet the dismissal ground, but the circumstances put forward must convince the court that it is reasonable not to require the employer to continue with the employment contract. Only if this is the case and relocation is no longer possible can the court dissolve. This does not alter the fact that an employer still has to motivate and justify his request for dissolution. It can only be done if the employer has a proper record of facts and circumstances on which the request is based. It is then up to the court to determine whether the circumstances relied on by the employer in conjunction with the employee's defence also constitute a reasonable basis in the case of an appeal to the cumulation ground, I would also say to reassure Mr Schalk. I would like to point out that the employer, as in the case of an appeal to a single dismissal ground, would not be very likely to have an inadequate record. Mr Schalk asked whether it was possible to indicate that there was a need to establish consistency between the various grounds when using the cumulation ground. In the case of an appeal to the cumulation ground, there must be circumstances on different grounds which, in combination, result in the employer being prevented from being required to continue the employment. It is up to the court to determine whether that is sufficiently established. The judge then sees for 100% reason to terminate the employment contract. It is important, also to Mr Schalk, to indicate this. Mr Schalk also asked whether there were limits to the cumulation ground, for example by introducing a maximum of three grounds. I would suggest that, even in the event of dismissal on the grounds of cumulation, there should always be reasonable grounds for dismissal, and that there should no longer be any possibility of relocating the worker. The judge will have to check whether those circumstances, from the various grounds of dismissal, are not sufficient to form a reasonable basis. Under the current system, by far the majority of dissolution requests are based on the d, e and g ground. These are dysfunctions, culpable actions and a distorted relationship between the employer and the employee. It is likely that recourse to the cumulation ground will mostly be based on two and a maximum of three of the grounds, as certain grounds will not be able to be quickly combined with each other, even in substance. I therefore expect that the combination of the aforementioned grounds will be more frequently discussed, i.e. the combination of dysfunction, culpable behaviour and a distorted employment relationship. It is therefore a question of how often three grounds or more will be required for dissolution. The expectation based on the available information on the current winding-up practice is that this will not happen very much, I also say to reassure Mr Schalk. I shall return to another question from Mr Schalk in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u85	Thank you to the Minister for the comprehensive answer. He's gonna ask me a few more questions. If it doesn't have to count to 100%, then the judge with two grounds that are so to speak can say 30%: that dysfunction is now so big, together with the other; let's put an end to it. That's the first thing. Then the second. The problem is, I think, also very big if you... Let me leave it to the first question. The second one will come on its own.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u86	Mr Schalk is right. In practice, this is also the criticism we received from the lawyer or the judges. There is an inadequate file, there is no full file. At the same time, the court finds in practice that, for example, the relationship has been seriously disturbed. Especially with an SME employer, it simply cannot go on. In the current legislation, there is no possibility, no reasonable grounds for dismissal, to dissolve. The canton court states: give us the room to make that decision. This includes a higher fee, which does not exceed 50% of a transition fee, precisely in order to allow for more customisation. The court must then decide 100% that the contract of employment must be terminated. In that sense, two times 30% is not enough, if possible; it is difficult to indicate a percentage. The court must find that the contract of employment must be dissolved and then has the possibility to use the cumulation ground and to provide an additional remuneration, precisely because it finds that there is no reasonable follow-up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u87	The Minister's reply brings me back to my second point, namely the formation of a file. In practice, I have understood, it is very often apparent that, because there is no good record, one ground is not a reason to make a full discharge. Then, for example, the dysfunction becomes very easy or it can no longer be done through one door. I understand the Minister says it won't be like this. But at the moment when there is a problem between an employer and an employee, but that employer has not formed a good file, that gives rise to grumpy. That could also very well lead to several grounds. It is therefore very important to at least make it very clear that there should be some kind of coherence. This is also important for legal history.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u88	I agree with Mr Schalk. That's what I expect; see the answer I just gave. Most dissolution requests are based on a combination of dysfunction, culpable action and a disturbed relationship. Mr Schalk is right about that. At the same time, I do not believe that this calls for a bad file. What we often encounter in practice is the following. There's a flawed record of dysfunction. This leads to non-disbandment, while the judge finds that there is a serious disturbance in the employment relationship in the workplace. There's no disbandment. What happens then? People call in sick and stay away for a long time. Especially for an SME employer, this is a real risk in practice, so he does not hire people in permanent employment. The cumulation ground tries to make customization possible. The combination of d, e and g soil will in practice be the combination most commonly used. But it's not a free pass, because the grounds remain. So the judge will have to be convinced, one hundred percent, that there really needs to be disbanded. That remains the guarantee in the bill. Mr Ester asked what the impact would be on vulnerable groups of workers. I would stress that the current legislative proposal does not constitute a serious infringement of the protection of dismissals, not even in the case of vulnerable workers. Although a new dismissal ground is being introduced, the judge also checks whether there is a reasonable ground. It also examines the possibility of relocation. Those grounds therefore remain in place. In the current closed system of dismissals, judges are often unable to dissolve contracts of employment. If the single dismissal ground is not fulfilled, the law will not allow dissolution. This bill doesn't change that. I think it is important that this change... Sorry, I just said it wrong. In the current system, judges are often unable to dissolve if the single grounds for dismissal are not fulfilled. Then dissolution is not allowed. Take the example I just mentioned: the 36% that has not been dissolved since the introduction of the WWZ. It is therefore important that customisation is made possible by judges by adding the cumulation ground. Mr Ester asks how we can prevent dismissal on the basis of the i-ground from becoming a new practice. With the SAB, the cumulation ground has been introduced for those cases where dismissal on a single basis is not possible but where the cumulation of parts of various grounds leads to fair dismissal. This is limited to situations where there is a cumulation of circumstances from multiple grounds of dismissal and the continuation of the employer's employment cannot be required. This means that the guarantees are still guaranteed in this law. Mr Schalk asked about safeguards for conscientious objectors. Then it's about the f-ground in the law. Mr Schalk asked whether I agree with him that conscientious objection cannot be partial and that the employer cannot make part of it plausible that the work could be done in a suitable form. He also asked whether I could confirm that, in the event of an action for a declaration of conscience, the dismissal of a conscientious objector would not be made easy within the cumulation ground, so that the status of the conscientious objector would not be weakened and undermined. Finally, he asked whether I could encourage the judge to be reluctant to involve the conscientious objection in the cumulation ground. The cumulation ground ensures that the conditions from several grounds together can lead to dissolution. I understand your concern and I also understand the concern of workers with conscientious objection to the introduction of this land. Of course, it can happen, but it is really very exceptional cases where the F ground is not fulfilled and the circumstances on other grounds mean that the employer cannot be required to continue the contract of employment. But these situations are very limited. I would like to explain that. Rejection of labour because of serious conscientious objection is one of the current grounds for dismissal. The conditions for successful recourse to this dismissal ground are that the employer has made it plausible that the work cannot be carried out in an adapted form. That's right, and it's gonna stay that way. I note that, since the introduction of the WWZ, the objection of conscience has only been raised once by an employer and has also been rejected by the judge. This is evident from case law over the past few years. In view of this, my expectation is that the frequency of use of an F-ground will not be different in the future, not even in combination with circumstances from other grounds. Rejection to work on the basis of a serious objection of conscience may consist in refusing part of the work or the entire work, but a objection of conscience will not be partially raised. Mr Schalk also said it: it will not be partly conscientiously difficult; it is zero or one. Even with the introduction of the cumulation ground, this does not change. I hope this has reassured the Chamber and Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u89	Mr Schalk, once.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u90	Mr President, may I add a few more sentences? It's about the same theme.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u91	Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u92	What also does not change is the general obligation for the employer to make an effort to relocate the employee. That obligation applies to all grounds of dismissal, even if the grounds for cumulation are raised on grounds of conscientious objection. That doesn't change with this law either. The court also continues to examine whether the employer has complied with this obligation vis-à-vis the employee in the event of a cumulation ground. The employee's interests are thus without prejudice to the judicial review. The employee remains protected. That's just to finish the whole story for legal history.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u93	I've been trying to understand the quick reading.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u94	Sorry!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u95	Let's get back to the position of the conscientious objector. I have to ask the question at once, so I need to get back to the way it was. Previously, an employee was not allowed to be fired because of the mere fact that he had conscientious objection. This has actually been reduced to the fact that the employee should not be dismissed in the event of refusal to work in connection with conscientious objection, provided that the employer can make it plausible that the work is carried out in a different way. That's already a deterioration, I think. At first, it was just about the nature of the situation, but now, in fact, the employer already has a bonus. I can't imagine a situation where you would have to add another ground to the objection of conscience. At that time, you do not do justice to that employee and his conscientious objection, but you also do not do justice to the purpose of the law. In other words, my argument would be that the f-ground is actually not part of the accumulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u96	I see you looking, Minister. I understand that this comes in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u97	This comes in the second term. Again, it's very rare. It was used once in case law. I agree with Mr Schalk that conscientious objection is a zero or a one: it is or is not. This includes the debate on relocation. For the sake of completeness, I will come back to this in the second term in order to put it right. Mr Köhler's question was: why 50% and not another percentage? That was indeed the case in the House of Representatives, where an amendment was tabled to do so infinitely or up to 100%. Infinitely would mean the re-introducing of the canton judge's formula, which would undermine the closed grounds of dismissal, because then there would be room for the canton court to award an infinite discharge fee. For that 50% was chosen on the assumption that while an additional fee is justified because you use the cumulation ground, you also do not want to run the risk of creating a kind of canton court formula light again. That's what 50% is based on. That is why I did not recommend the amendment of the House of Representatives to increase this percentage. This would, in turn, lead to an increase in redundancy payments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u98	One, Mr. Köhler.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u99	This also applies to the fact that it can't be halfway through, so it's going to be one interruption! I understood this explanation from the Minister's documents earlier, but my position was that this resignation on the cumulation ground would immediately replace what is now being done by a fixed agreement. Most of the time, the canton court formula is still used. I find the gap between that one and a half times the legal transition fee, or half a month's salary per year of service, and the formula of a whole month's salary per year of service, very large. That is to say, the decline for the employee. That 200% supplement had narrowed that gap while maintaining the fact that it is not as high as the old canton court formula. In the Minister's reasoning, that would have seemed to me a better conclusion, which would have made it more acceptable to us. That is why I regret that he does not want to raise it, because that one-and-a-half times that is not really that big of a deal, you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u100	I do not agree with Mr Köhler. It is indeed an additional fee of 50% of the transition fee, which is above the 100% transition fee. Mr Köhler was right to say that the dismissal allowance was reduced in several steps: in the case of the canton judge's formula, for the introduction of the Work and Security Act, after which the Work and Security Act introduced a horizon clause for over 50 years and after ten years of employment. It would end in the Work and Security Act by 2020. That's gonna be a little bit on top of it now. The biggest difference between the canton court formula and now is really in the horizon clause for that. Why did we do that? Because we actually want to make it even, regardless of the length of the employment, because we think it is justified that, as people have worked for a certain number of years, they are entitled to a fixed transition fee per year worked. If a cumulation ground is used, it may be increased by 50%. Again, there are two reasons. One: 100% would actually undermine a part of this movement again, which means that there is a risk that employers will not offer people a fixed contract and that this is a reason for employers not to give people that certainty. The second reason is that there is also a risk that the canton court formula or a variant of it will be introduced again via a back door. I do not think that is appropriate to the closed system of dismissal grounds. Mrs Sent has asked whether the various fees in the SAB do not make it very complicated. Since the WWZ we have both the transition fee and the fair remuneration; that is the other fee that exists in the law. The employee is entitled to this transition fee regardless of the grounds for dismissal. Only if the termination is the result of a serious culpable act will there be no right to transition compensation. Fair remuneration shall apply to situations in which termination of employment is the result of serious culpable action or omission by the employer. In the meantime, in the so-called New Hairstyle judgment, the Supreme Court has provided guidance for the calculation of this remuneration and the circumstances to be taken into account. The WAB adds to the fee system introduced with the WWZ that additional fee of up to 50% of the transition fee in addition to the transition fee and separate a fee in case of termination on the cumulation ground. That makes it quite clear. At the same time, we will see in the near future that the introduction of the SAB will certainly lead to case law. This is also what the Council says for the case-law in the implementation test of this law: in the first phase there will be more court cases to crystallise that case-law, but after that it is expected that the number of cases will decrease if this is crystallised. This was also the subject of a question by Mr Ester about the consequences for the judiciary. We have attached the Council's implementation test for the case law, which endorses this point, to the documents. We have also noted that, as soon as a peak is visible, this increase in volume will be included in the budget of the judiciary, of the Council of Justice, in the expected financed production. That is something the Chamber can rest assured of. Mr. Chairman. Then there are the measures on the transition fee itself. The transition allowance can serve as a relief for the decline in income, but can also be used as a training budget to facilitate the transition to a new job. At present, the employer does not have to pay a transition fee for a contract shorter than two years. This results in an unnatural moment of choice for the employer after those two years, which means that a lot of constructions are aimed at a period up to those two years. By allowing the transition fee to be payable from the start of the employment contract, this becomes unnatural due to differences in costs. We took away that moment of choice for this. In addition, the incentive not to dismiss long-term workers because of these high dismissal costs does not contribute to the proper functioning of the labour market. This law therefore amends two points in the structure of the transition fee. Firstly, the two-year reference period will be abolished. So from day one there is a transition fee. Secondly, the increase in the construction of jobs of ten years or more will be abolished. These changes in the structure ensure that the transition fee is one third of the gross monthly salary per year of service, regardless of the length of the employment. These measures reduce the impact of dismissal costs on the choice of contract form. It removes the unnatural moment of choice after two years of employment and reduces the differences between shorter and longer contracts. I therefore believe that it is good for transparency in the labour market. Mr Ganzevoort asked whether it would not be more logical not to lay down rules for the transition fee but to leave it to the judge's discretion in relation to customization. I have just answered that question to Mr Köhler. I don't think that's wise because you'll get the canton justice formula back in the law, as it were, through the back door. Mrs Oomen asked whether the introduction of the transition fee from day one to day one was consistent with the purpose of a transition fee, namely to allow these small amounts to contribute to the transition from work to work. As I have just said, it is two-fold: compensation for dismissal and compensation for training. Mrs Oomen is right that it is not very much money in small contracts. It also has to do with that artificial distinction in the labour market; that there is no transition fee for two years. It's actually aimed at constructions to dissolve the contract for two years. Mr Ester, Mr Ganzevoort, Mr Köhler and Mrs Oomen asked about the labour market position of older workers, together with the reduction of the redundancy allowance for those longer years of service. Of course, I am aware of the labour market position of older workers. For unemployed persons from 60 years of age with a WW benefit who have not yet found a job after WW law, there is the safety net of the IOW, as has been the subject of extensive treatment in the Lower House. There was an amendment by Mr Stoffer not to have a power and no partner test for employees over 60 years of age, as a kind of compensation for this scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u101	I have a quick question. Can the Minister give us further details on the extent to which the compensation for training and other continuing training costs with the transition fee is now fully covered by the law as he sees it for himself?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u102	They are three elements and three questions have also been asked. Firstly, it is true that the pension ceiling is lacking, in that the transition fee is limited to the expected loss of income up to the retirement age. It is true that this is not provided for in the law. The transition fee is a compensation for dismissal, which is also relevant for these employees. I see as a possible undesirable effect of such a pension ceiling that workers will be dismissed shortly before retirement age and thus enter the WW until retirement age. For this reason, we did not opt for a ceiling on the pension transition fee, because we can in turn provoke strategic behaviour from employers, in order to allow people to drain through the WW. Secondly, development and training costs are indeed deducted from the transition fee. This measure in the coalition agreement requires adaptation of an AMvB. This is in preparation. The draft decision has already been approved for internet consultation. It is planned that the decision will be sent to the Council of State for its opinion as soon as possible and can enter into force on 1 January 2020. Then there is the third point. Mr Rinnooy Kan rightly says that the effects of the proposed change on the level of the transition fee are difficult to predict. The parliamentary documents provide an estimate of the effects of the various measures in the area of the transition fee in the SAB on the dismissal costs for employers. Some measures lead to higher dismissal costs, as I have also broken down towards Mr Van de Ven, for example from day one. Some lead to lower dismissal costs, such as ten years of employment. The level of dismissal costs is regularly examined. The effects of the change on the transition fee and the dismissal costs for employers will also be part of the evaluation of the SAB. Then there is the final question on this point. Mr Ester has asked another question about the probationary period. I can confirm that I do not intend to make another proposal on probation during this cabinet period. I hope that reassures him. Mr. Chairman. Then the fourth block: the premium differentiation. Seasonal work also comes back, in response to Mrs Oomen. The main rule is that the low WW premium is paid for a written contract of employment for an indefinite period, provided that it is not a call agreement. The high premium always applies to calls for tenders. There are two exceptions to these main rules. The first is that a person in a vocationally assisted learning path, the b.b.l., always has the low premium, i.e. in the context of training, because we are keen to encourage training. That is the first point. The second exception follows an amendment by the SGP Group in the House of Representatives: young people under the age of 21, who work less than 12 hours a week, also receive the low premium. This is also aimed at excluding students and students from the higher WW premium. This law also addresses seasonal sectors. Mrs Sent asked for the justification of this age limit of 21 years. It is based on the aim of the applicants, namely to exclude students with a small side job from the high premium. This limit can also be objectively justified, since from the age of 21 the maintenance obligation of the parents will cease. A combination of these two reasons is in line with the SGP amendment in the Lower House. Mrs Sent also asked me about the risk of displacement as a result of this exception. Of course, this always exists with exceptions, but I think the risk is manageable because it is really about students and students, and less than 12 hours a week. It's really about side jobs, not regular jobs. Mr Ester has asked for my expectation of the effects of the new premium differentiation, especially for SMEs. Again, everything can be seen in conjunction. The incentive to offer fixed contracts is a guiding factor in determining the difference between the high and the low premium. The effects of different heights cannot be accurately predicted. This applies to large companies, but also to SMEs. Of course, it will probably be cheaper, and flex more expensive, bearing in mind your first sentence of your contribution this afternoon. That seems to me to be economically justified. We have taken the damage burden between people with a fixed contract and people with a flexible contract as the starting point. This has also led to the justification of the difference of those five percentage points of premium differentiation. The influx into the ww is for people with a flexible contract significantly higher than with a fixed contract. This is reflected in the fixing of premiums, from the point of view of 'polluter pays'. That sounds a little disrespectful. Questions have been asked about control and enforcement. Paying the right premium is the responsibility of the employer. He knows what type of contract he has entered into with the employee and whether there may be a situation in which the higher premium should be paid with retroactive effect. But it is of course important to check whether employers give up this in the wage statement. Several members, including Mr Rinnooy Kan and Mrs Sent, have therefore drawn attention to the persistence of the proposal. That attention is quite right, because good enforcement is essential for effectiveness. I have taken a number of measures in the bill to promote enforcement. The first, of course, concerns the regular book surveys by the Tax Administration. They're part of the payroll chain. This is part of the regular book check. Secondly, and this is a novelty, the nature of the contract must be stated on the pay slip. We know that employers attach great importance to good information on the pay slip. This also means that employees can say to their employer: on my pay slip it says that I have a fixed contract, when you actually give a flexible contract. This improves the enforcement of this measure. Moreover, this piece of pay slip is also included in the payroll administration software. This also makes it easier to maintain and better to demonstrate that there is deliberate fraud if the pay slip deviates from the income statement found by the Tax Administration. Thirdly, in order to prevent abuse, various situations have been included with retroactive effect, where we can retroactively see whether strategic behaviour has taken place, with contracts that have been identified as fixed, but were found to be temporary in practice. We have chosen four control mechanisms for this, together with the Tax Administration and the UWV. There are also high fines on fraud with the WW premium. If there is falsehood in writing, even prison sentences can be the result. In my view, therefore, the combination of these three is a good way to maintain the new system. Mrs Sent asked me to go into the feasibility of the Tax Administration and the UWV. The Tax Administration and the UWV have been preparing for the introduction of this bill for months. I can give you a brief update on the state of play. The most important change is therefore the wage declaration. Employers provide a fixed set of data to the Tax Administration each month and that set needs to be adjusted. I can tell you that this work is progressing well. A month ago, the Tax Administration published the modifications. The UWV, the Tax Administration and the software developers can prepare themselves for introduction as of 1 January 2020. Of course, it is also important for employers to be able to cope with the system. This is why the last year has worked closely with the developers of salary software. For example, we have ensured that employers are given the best possible support when completing the wage declaration. Finally, the Tax Administration and the UWV have to make system adjustments, inter alia because of the enforcement of the scheme. These adjustments are also on schedule. So we are on track for the introduction in 2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u103	Mrs. Sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u104	Well, the last sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u105	Yeah, okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u106	But that doesn't mean that this is a simple job for the Tax Administration and the UWV. It's a complicated job. It's a major ICT operation. That is also what I am saying in response to Mrs Sent's questions. The sector classification changes, disappears. There is a complex ICT adjustment throughout the payroll reporting chain.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u107	It sounds scary, to be honest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u108	That's not my question. However, my question is: how does the image that the Minister is now presenting relate to the previous rulings of the Tax Administration? I refer to the statements that it is not fraud-proof, that the Tax Administration in the execution is dependent on UWV, that the UWV itself states that retroactive action is not error-free or conclusive, that it is a matter of substantial numbers, that the implementation problems are large and that it has consequences for the feasibility and enforcement of the bill. So I don't quite understand how those earlier statements by the Tax Administration and the UWV relate to the statements made by the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u109	That's where I was in my answer. One of the biggest tasks for them is indeed the exchange of data between the UWV and the Tax Administration, especially when it comes to the revisions. I would like to emphasise that the regular payroll reporting chain is just the regular software and the regular book researcher of the Tax Administration. So this is really about retrospective adjustments that are being revised. In order to be able to bring those revisions up and report back to the Tax Administration, four tools are developed by the UWV. Especially in the beginning it will be a complicated process that the UWV reports back to the Tax Administration. That really needs to be dealt with in that first phase. Both services warn that we need to pay close attention to this because there are risks involved. But the system is robust enough to start on January 1st. In the coming years, the UWV and the Tax Administration will make an extra effort to improve the quality of the data in the payroll reporting chain. It is a combination of these two points. Also from 2020 onwards, we will continue to monitor the wage declaration to ensure that the implementation of the new payroll differentiation is successful. There are certain risks. I have already stressed that it is a complicated ICT task, but preparations are on the rise and all parties are involved in implementing it. I'll get to seasonal work. Mrs Oomen and Mr Ester have drawn attention to this. I have already stressed that the introduction of the premium is two-fold. Firstly, it is encouraging employers to enter into fixed contracts and secondly, it is promoting entry into the WW. I would like to take away the idea that the WW premium for seasonal work is going to be much higher. For sectors with high seasonal employment, such as the agricultural sector and the catering industry, this higher WW premium already applies to short-term contracts. It already exists in the current system. Mr Ester has already referred to this in his speech. In fact, in some sectors these premiums have been higher in recent years than the new high WW premium. Then it's about construction and the cultural sector. That's where the high premiums were already higher. In the agricultural sector, the high WW premium increases, but only limited, from 7.5% to 8% on the introduction of the WWF. For seasonal work, employers can also offer a fixed contract with a standard of annual hours and the low WW premium applies to this. A number of measures have been taken in the Lower House to meet seasonal work. Firstly, it concerns the amendment of the SGP which makes an exception for students and pupils under 21 years of age by 12 hours. Secondly, the amendments tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats have allowed the social partners to derogate from certain provisions in collective agreements. Thirdly, we have made 12 million available for bbl-spots in seasonal sectors, precisely to meet those sectors. Finally, a motion was adopted to remain in dialogue with the social partners on the bottlenecks in this area. These talks are both about monitoring and removing seasonal effects. Of course I'm gonna do that. Mr Ester asked me about the discussions between the cabinet and the social partners on this issue. He also asked for the impact of the agricultural bill to be part of the legislative review. In any case, I'd like to make a commitment to the latter. We're gonna take this with us in the law review. I'd like to talk to the social partners. Another meeting with the social partners is scheduled for June, in particular to see what signals there are in the agricultural sector in terms of seasonal work. A proposal for an exception was made in the written round. Turns out that's not enforceable. That is also what I have answered in response to your questions. I am sympathetic to solutions to practical bottlenecks, for example when it comes to the application of the annual standard. Mrs Oomen drew attention to this. As seasonal work is generally more frequent in agricultural holdings and the cabinet remains in dialogue with social partners on seasonal work, special attention to the evaluation remains good. I'm gonna keep talking to the social partners. I also explicitly agree that the impact on seasonal work, including on the agricultural sector, will be taken into account in the assessment of the premium differentiation. Finally, I would like to point out the following. In the Lower House the Wiersma motion has been adopted, with which there has also been a reconnaissance of long-term temporary contracts. For example, in the supermarket sector there are three- or four-year contracts. In the context of this motion, I would also like, as a commitment to your Chamber, to see if there is any possibility of meeting seasonal work. So that's really about a separate contract form for seasonal sectors. I'd like to give you my word on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u110	When we talk about seasonal work, we act as if it is only that half-percent premium. But there's more to seasonal work. I am thinking of the transition fee, but also of all the measures in the call for work. That certainly pinches with the weather supply in horticulture.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u111	Agreed. I'm just gonna peel it off. First, the premium differentiation. There is indeed a difference between 7.5% and 8% in the agricultural sector. In the case of call-for-call work, we also, with an amendment by the SGP Group in the House of Representatives, gave the social partners the opportunity to deviate from that in collective bargaining. That is also a move towards those sectors. Thirdly... Let's think about it! What was the third one again? I just lost the answer. I've just lost the last point we're gonna meet with seasonal work. With the transition fee from day one it is true that it leads to 3% higher costs per year. That is also the case with the fact that... Oh, my God, I'm out of line!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u112	Otherwise, do it in second term. It's something with millions; that's obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u113	Something with millions, indeed. It's over 12 million; that's right. The transition fee from day one indeed costs money for seasonal work. That also has to do with the WW input, which is also taxed, so to speak. This indeed increases costs. The annual standard remains possible. Other ways remain possible. We've been trying to accommodate the sector. We'll keep monitoring that. We hope to be able to prevent the undesirable effects. Then there's the division of the sector. Mrs Sent was concerned about the fund assets to be transferred to the General Unemployment Fund. As you know, it is important that the WW sector classification be abolished in order to implement this. Moreover, there are around 1,000 to 1,200 court cases per year on the division of the sector. So the current classification is also rather labour-intensive and sensitive to strategic behavior. So that is the profit of abolishing that sector classification and replacing it with a distinction between fixed and temporary contracts. So it is indeed accompanied by pluses and minuses, also in the execution for the Tax Administration. I have indicated that I have not seen any possibility of allowing all surpluses to be phased out. I have, of course, already announced to those sectors that the surpluses would be reduced. That's what happened. This year, premiums were set at €0 in a number of sectors in order to cover surpluses, but for some sectors there is a surplus. It'll be part of the new system. On the other hand, most companies in surplus sectors, such as the construction sector, have an average lower premium burden after the introduction of the premium differentiation than in recent years. So occasionally it concerns EUR 60 million for the construction sector. On the other hand, the payment burden is falling structurally by 60 million per year. Thus, the introduction of the premium differentiation is also a major benefit for that sector. So there are indeed pluses and minuses, also for the feasibility of this scheme for the Tax Administration. Mr. Chairman. In the last block a few other questions. There have been detailed questions asked, and for the history of law it is important that I treat them properly. Mr Ester asked how the proposed measures relate to European legislation. Of course, I have ensured that the measures in the legislative proposal are compatible with higher regulation, including international law and ILO conventions, i.e. the International Labour Organisation, and European regulation on the internal market. Where the measure affects international law, attention has been paid to it per measure in the explanatory memorandum to the bill, for example in the case of payroll measures and the change in the chain determination. The Council of State is also, of course, reviewing legislative proposals on these aspects. Mrs Sent asked whether the government sets a good example when it comes to providing permanent jobs to employees. Of course, the government considers it important to set a good example and offer structural work with a permanent job, and to take this into account the position of employees. From the point of view of good employership, the government is also involved in the hiring of temporary workers and payroll workers. This is also the responsibility of the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations in its coordinating role for working conditions and the government as an employer. But in the national circular on the lending of temporary agency workers, it says that the duration of the loan must be taken in to prevent revolving door constructions. This creates at some point, especially for this target group, the right to a fixed contract from the point of view of good employership. In addition, it has been agreed that the government no longer uses payroll, because of the negative legal consequences this has for the employees concerned. This gives a good example to the government as an employer. I have answered the effect of the wage bill, a question from Mr Van de Ven. Mr. Chairman. I think that answers the questions raised by the Chamber. Again, in summary: the SAB is part of a wider range of labour market measures. It coincides with payment of wages in the event of illness,zzp measures and forms of labour law. It is also linked to the Committee on the Regulation of Work, the Borstlap Committee. I think it is important that during this cabinet period the first urgent steps are taken to settle this, because we are facing bottlenecks in practice, especially when it comes to employers who no longer offer permanent contracts through the accumulation of risks, and certainly also for workers who depend on temporary contracts. In doing so, I hope to have a picture of the whole agenda. In order to respond to Mr Ester's request, I will illustrate, before the vote next week, the timetable of what is going on at the same time, in terms of lifelong development, in terms of WAB and in terms of WAB, in order to give your Chamber an insight into the overall package of measures that the cabinet is now planning to introduce. Thank you for your questions and I hope you will have answered them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u114	Thank you. I have received a request from the Chamber for a short suspension. I'm suspending the meeting for a good ten minutes, until 5:30.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u115	We will continue to deal with bill 35074, labour market law in balance. We have arrived at the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Ester.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u116	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister and his officials for answering my group's questions. We had an intensive debate today on the role of this bill in tilting the thriving flexibility of the labour market. Let me point out that there is little wrong with self-chosen flexible employment contracts by employees. That also exists. We and the Minister are particularly concerned with the negative excesses of involuntary flexibilisation, the emergence of a caste of workers with small jobs with little future prospects, of vulnerable groups of workers including many young people. We support the Minister's commitment to making flexible work more expensive in offering fixed contracts. As far as we are concerned, the direction of policy is the right one. However, it is striking that a number of measures are based more on intuition than on facts. That is also because the evaluation of the WWZ is not in progress. In addition, a more fundamental reflection on labour market developments has been given to the Borstlap Commission. Training policy is also subject to a separate update. And that is a bit of a burden on today's debate. What is also a burden on the debate is that this bill concerns only part of the labour market. We have talked about this in detail. It is not an integral policy. The rapid growth of the number of zzp'ers I mentioned that a silent revolution in the Dutch labour market is not part of the bill. The Christian Union has expressed its fear, along with many other groups, of waterbed effects between measures now being proposed and the stimulation of zzp-shine structures. Fortunately, the Minister clearly showed that he has an eye for these substantive omissions and potential waterbed effects. His analyses and his commitments are crucial to my group's consideration. The motion by Mr Van de Ven, which has yet to be submitted and which we have signed, marks and anchors these commitments. The support for this motion by the Minister will be part of our final judgment on the law. We see that the minister plays chess on many plates and apparently also has a bigger master plan, a sort of railway book, so to speak. Thank you to the Minister for giving us, for next week's vote, an overview of all the measures and proposals that need to be taken and of the time when they are to be introduced. Mr. Chairman. Much of this law is based on signals and intüition and less on firm empirical evidence. That may not always be possible either, but it seems to me very important to make scientific labour market research much more rigorous in the competition and, above all, to have unintended side effects of the Minister's measures examined. Can the Minister still promise that? The flexibility bar really needs to be reversed. We do not want a generation of young people going from one flex job to another, without a perspective, without a pension scheme, without good insurance, without training. The balance between flexibility and security is now really a core issue on the Dutch labour market. Mr. Chairman. This debate was useful and necessary. It was fun, too. The Minister is clearly competent in this field and he masters his profession. We, as a group, are now going to decide our final judgment. This debate has provided good input for this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u117	Thank you, Mr. Ester. I give the floor to Mrs Sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u118	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Ester's reference to signals and intuition reminds me of a famous statement by Jan Schaefer, which is not about bullshit and living, but it says: "Is this policy or has it been considered?" I would like to thank the Minister for answering our questions. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank his officials for the speed with which they answered our written questions, even during the recess. I would also like to congratulate the spokesmen in this Chamber for the careful way in which they have shared a large number of concerns about the legislative proposal before us. In particular, Mr Rinnooy Kan of D66 reminded me that the Work and Security Act resulted from the social agreement between the social partners and the Cabinet. At the same time, the Labour Market Act is balancing the social partners, according to my group's assessment. And I find that highly undesirable. In the first term, I have put a number of questions to the Minister. I'd like to walk by. The first question concerned the role of the government as an employer. I am pleased that the Minister has stressed the importance of good employership and of a government that sets a good example. Hopefully, the good example of payrolling will also follow well in the rest of the market. I've been thinking about the front page worker in the first place. In both Belgium and Germany it is prohibited to permanently make available to a third party. The present bill allows payrolling, but leads to the emergence of the sham worker. The Minister has all kinds of proposals on this, but unfortunately they have not yet been incorporated into the present legislative proposal. Then I come to the need for the cumulation ground. I have indicated that I am not yet convinced of the scientific basis. We asked the Minister to convince my group of the need for the cumulation ground. Now I understand very well why labour-market lawyers support cumulation, but mentioning a series of names of scientists is not yet scientific evidence for my group. The gap is estimated at 0.0054% of employers who want to get rid of an employee but fail. In addition, the share of fixed contracts is increasing. So in that context, I am not yet convinced of the need for the cumulation ground. I also drew attention to the feasibility of the cumulation ground. The Minister explained this, but I have a question about it in relation to the Baijings problem. As a result of the maximisation of the fee up to 50%, there may be a coincidence with other fees on the same grounds as that 50%. For example, I mention a fee based on Book 7, Article 611 Civil Code or a fair remuneration of Book 7, Article 681 Civil Code. I would like to ask the Minister to reflect on this convergence and the consequences for its feasibility. Then there's the chain determination. Where the German Government is proposing, with the same objective as the Dutch Government, to reduce the maximum duration of the chain from 24 to 18 months, I have asked the Minister to support his proposed extension to 36 months. That's where he mostly refers to signals from society. That is not convincing for my group. I still don't quite understand the exception for substitute students in primary education. If I understand correctly, primary school invaders are excluded from the chain definition, but social partners have proposed a maximum of 36 months. They do so in the letter to which the Minister referred. I still do not understand why the protection of workers in primary education is more limited than in other sectors and I still do not understand how labour market considerations end up in the Civil Code. If the Minister wishes to reflect on that one more time, I would very much appreciate it. On the issue of premium differentiation, I asked questions about the possibilities offered by the design of premium differentiation for improper use and fraud, and about the signals given by the Tax Administration and UWV in the consultation round on the feasibility and persistence of the premium differentiation. The Minister states that this has yet to be resolved, but here again I sense the pattern in which I do not get enough comfort that this is actually implemented and enforceable. We have considered seasonal work and paid particular attention to the position of employers, but the exception for seasonal work advocated by employers may offer a new wide escape route to escape a higher premium. I would also like to hear the Minister about the employee perspective on seasonal work and potential escape opportunities. Then there's the call agreements. It is conceivable that the use of this form of contract could lead to greater uncertainty for employees. As Professor Roozendaal pointed out, the proposal legitimizes uncertainty and thus contradicts the objective of the SAB as a whole. If I listen carefully to the Minister, he recognizes that on some points there are not strong call forces. We have talked about 21-minners and the incentives provided by the bill for employers to deploy pupils and students below 21. Many of my students are over 21 and do fear displacement. I do not share the confidence that employers do not respond to these incentives. I haven't met an employer who doesn't respond to financial incentives, or at least little. And that unwanted displacement is of course not so much relevant to my students, but is relevant to regular work. I have drawn attention to the broader perspective and put forward as a solution to make participation in the welfare state mandatory. I am very pleased that the Minister has instructed the Borstlap Committee to look into this and I am very much looking forward to the mid-term report and final report in November. Mr President, I will conclude. Mr Rinnooy Kan's reference from D66 to screws and screwdrivers reminded me of the following saying about nails and hammers: whoever has a hammer in his hand thinks of a nail in everything. Quite translated, a bit faint: whoever has the WAB in his hand, thinks of everything fixed and flex, but not ofzzp'ers. The Minister has therefore not been able to convince my group that the legislative proposal before us improves the balance on the labour market. We support a large part of the measures, but the position ofzzp'ers is not strengthened. While the emergence of the platform economy leads to a significant increase in the number of self-employed without staff. In fact, it stimulates the use of constructions as sham workers. And by "it," I mean that the bill stimulates that kind of construction. The Minister has come up with all kinds of proposals to monitor this. He's giving social partners a role. But also with the comfort he has in it, he has not been able to convince my group in this debate. Moreover, the bill is premature, because the results of the evaluation of the Work and Security Act are not even in and the Borstlap Committee, as mentioned earlier, will be presenting its proposal in November. I cannot help but agree with the opinion of the experts we have heard in this Chamber. Some of the experts cited by the Minister have been heard in the Lower House. According to the experts we have heard in this Chamber, the bill is unfinished, unclear and disappointing. With that, I can only advise my group to vote against the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u119	Thank you, Mrs. Sent. I give the floor to Mr Nagel.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u120	Mr. Chairman. We too would like to express our appreciation for the comprehensive defence of the Minister and the work of the officials. We actually feel they deserved a better law. In the first instance, we have already raised a number of objections and pointed to the fact that the Council of State has pointed out the large differences that persist between different categories of workers. We have pointed out the sloppy preparation, without labour market analysis of the CPB, and the increase from 24 to 36 months, just in the first term by Mrs Sent and by us. I would also like to mention the need to wait until early 2021 for the evaluation of the current Work and Security Act. I would like to draw attention to the experts who said on 12 March that the principles of the coalition agreement are obsolete. We have pointed out that we are internationally out of line with this law, and above all that the most vulnerable group, the elderly, are being discharged more easily: it is becoming cheaper. We are not going to repeat everything from the first term, but to sum up: 50PLUS thinks this is bad legislation for the workers and for the elderly in particular. In order not to have to give an explanation of vote later, we now announce that we will vote against.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u121	Thank you, Mr. Nagel. I give the floor to Mr Rinnooy Kan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u122	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The correct quote for Mrs Sent is: for those who only have a hammer, everything looks like a nail. This is also something that political parties can appeal to at times. In all honesty, Mr Nagel's behaviour just reminded me of this saying. That being the case, I would like to begin with the appreciation that has been expressed for the Minister, who has done a heroic job and who has once again made us aware of the complexity of the subject he is dealing with. I would also like to join in the appreciation of the officials, who have indeed been under high pressure from our Committee on Social Affairs and Employment, which has not made it easy for them to provide a great deal of material that we have been able to benefit from. The size of this package is impressive. The planning around it is just as much. The comparison with the railway book has been drawn. We look forward to the brief summary and wish the station chief every success in the implementation. The admiration we all feel for this job is partly due to the possibly inevitable imperfect connection in the time of some parts to each other. They have received a great deal of attention, and I shall come back to that as well. Any law, you might say, is a stand-in between a past full of problems and a future full of uncertainties. This law doesn't change anything about that. This also applies and we have to live with it. However, I am also looking forward to the possibility of a more fundamental rethink of the rules of the game in our labour market, which has been established many times that they have been around for a very long period of incubation. A law that originated in the early 20th century could be in need of revision almost halfway through the 21st century. Of all the parts that have been reviewed today, the payrolling was certainly not the least discussed. I do not think we can avoid the conclusion that, in any case, this sector is facing a complicated future. The pension scheme, which will now come about with some delay, illustrates the complexity it has to take into account. I hope so, and I expect no other way forward that the Minister will want to take a critical look at this. In this context, I have not actually received a response from him on one point of concern in a long list, namely whether the coverage would be correct that in the new ABU-cao the persons from the payroll sector would not qualify for participation in it and for the benefit of the working conditions laid down therein. If that is the case, I hope that the Minister will at least take a critical look at it. If necessary, he will be able to tell us in our direction even after this sitting. A motion to which Mr Ester has already referred, which seeks to address water bed care adequately, has also been supported by the D66 Group with joy and agreement. I hope that the Minister will show his willingness to do something useful and to live with it. Mr. Chairman. The Borstlap Committee is on its way. I wish this Minister, in particular, that he will be able to experience and influence the rethinking. I should like to wish him what I was asked for earlier, namely that this evening will be a culmination in his career with retroactive effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u123	Thank you, Mr. Rinnooy Kan. I give the floor to Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u124	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, too, for the Minister's answers. Respect for the way he plays chess on many plates; I use the same metaphor as Mr Ester. He's counting on him to win all the games. If that doesn't work, it'll cost the balance, I'll give it to you. We have talked about the cumulation ground as a stacking of all kinds of possible grounds. The Minister states that this is mainly about a set of grounds c, d and g: dysfunction, culpable action and distorted employment relations. This means that this ground must be linked to the formation of files, as the Minister has explained in detail. So it can't be a grabbelton. I just wanted to confirm that. Finally, I had a little discussion with the Minister on conscientious objection. Previously, there was no discharge possible to the single fact of conscientious objection. Now it is not a dismissal, except where the employer can make it plausible that the work cannot be carried out in a suitable form. Now refusal of work in the event of conscientious objection could also become part of the cumulation ground. That's not really possible. You can't be half or part conscientious objector. It's 1 or 0. We have exchanged that, but the Minister was not yet able to give an immediate indication of the state of play. In fact, I have stated, and I do so again, that the f-ground does not belong in the cumulation ground, just as the a- and b-ground cannot be added to the cumulation ground. So I do not know the answer yet, but I want to prevent us from having a third deadline next week. Hence the next motion. There are not enough signatures yet, Madam President, but I hope that enough people will support the proposal. The President shall: Mr Schalk and Mr Ester proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Labour Market Balance Act (WAB) introduces the cumulation ground;]] [[having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee;]] [[Whereas a conscientious objector should not be dismissed if he has a conscientious objection as long as the employer cannot prove that it is plausible that the stipulated work cannot be carried out in an appropriate form;]] [[Whereas it is not possible to have a partial objection to conscience, which also affects the assessment of whether or not the stipulated work could be carried out in an appropriate form;]] [[calls on the Government to formalise, on the occasion of a subsequent legislative proposal, that the F ground, namely dismissal due to refusal of work in connection with conscientious objection, cannot be part of the cumulation ground,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35074-H]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u125	I was very pleased that the vote had already been taken!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u126	Yeah, it's "subscribe." Okay, okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u127	Thank you, Madam President. Thanks again for all the answers. I am very curious about the last part and am about to give my group a positive opinion on the legislative proposal before us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u128	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. I give the floor to Mr Van de Ven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u129	Thank you, Madam President. We thank the Minister in great detail for the explanations he has given. We are very grateful to him for the great work he has done this evening. We also express our appreciation for his knowledge of social security with which he defended this bill this evening. That is also true of his officials who have been so incredibly involved in this. My group is very grateful to the Minister for his commitments on the question of not turning temporary employment contracts into payroll contracts and also for postponing the implementation of the payroll pension scheme for one year until 1 January 2021. My group lacks in the SAB a set of accompanying measures in the labour law sphere to prevent the so-called waterbed effect of a shift from payroll contracts to employment contracts orzzp contracts. We have prepared a motion for this. I'd like to hand it over to Madam President. The President shall: Mr Van de Ven, Mr Oomen-Ruijten, Mr Jorritsma-Lebbink, Mr Wever, Mr Klip-Martin, Mr Ester, Mr Rinnooy Kan, Mr Backer and Mr Andriessen proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Government's aim with the Labour Market Act is to strike a better balance between fixed and flexible employment contracts;]] [[noting that the SAB does not provide for a set of accompanying measures in the employment field in order to avoid the so-called "waterbed effect" from a shift from payroll contracts to temporary employment contracts orzzp contracts;]] [[Whereas information has become available that the flexible labour market has already begun to implement the waterbed effect;]] [[Whereas the proposals of the Committee on the Regulation of Work (Borstlap Committee) on an integrated approach to labour law are published in six months' time;]] [[Considering that labour law also has an impact on social security, taxation, pensions and collective agreements and that the Borstlap Committee is expected to include these aspects in its research;]] [[Calls on the Government to come forward with proposals for newzzp policies by summer 2019 with a definitive timetable aimed at adequate protection of thezzp's at the bottom of the labour market and measures to counter bogus self-employment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35074-I]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u130	I have a question for Mr Van de Ven. I just heard the text of the motion for a resolution for the first time. Is the government to be asked to come forward with proposals before the summer of this year, or with proposals for a timetable to come up with proposals?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u131	The motion says both.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u132	This means that the government has another month to come up with proposals to change the position ofzzp'ers. That's what you're asking?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u133	Indeed, but that does not mean that legislation should be in place at a time of one month.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u134	Well, it's getting interesting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u135	I have a question for Mr Van de Ven about the timing of his request. He rightly refers in his motion to the opinion of the Borstlap Committee, if I have heard correctly. But that advice will not be available until November. Now he is actually asking the cabinet to develop proposals even before the Borstlap Committee's opinion. Let me get this straight. And if so, why did he choose that timing?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u136	The motion is aimed at providing a horizon against the background of the work of the Borstlap Committee which makes it clear that, in relation to the waterbed, thought must already be given to how you are going to fill it out so that the waterbed does not develop, because that development is already taking place.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u137	One last interruption, I hope. If so much has already been exchanged in this Chamber, in the written rounds and in the social debate on possible unintended side-effects of the present bill, Mr van de Ven considers it desirable to introduce the Labour Market Act in balance only after measures have been taken to limit these waterbed effects?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u138	First of all, those who have signed the motion, that is my firm conviction, are constructive towards the path to be followed by this legislative proposal. We are all going to wait and see how the Minister will react. We will then decide, on our own responsibility, each group for itself, from its own political anchors, how we will vote on this bill. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u139	A very small attempt. I understand from the motion that we are looking for the integrality that I think we have been talking about all day. Is it also conceivable, and perhaps desirable, to see not only the effects of this law on follow-up measures towards zzp, but also the other way round, from the proposals that we apparently have in a month's time, what does that mean for the assessment of this law? That would perhaps be a really good consideration for the integrity.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u140	I am trying to analyse what Mr Ganzevoort is presenting to me. I have the impression that he is asking me something about where he invites me to offer a solution to the fact that we are expecting a waterbed effect that may already be happening. Well, I'm a little overwhelmed about that. We do want to set a horizon at the beginning to avoid that waterbed effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u141	If I'm overly complex, I'd like to make it easier. If Mr Van de Ven suggests that we have these proposals in a month's time, so that we can weigh properly whether the waterbed effect on thezzp situation is not too great, or at least sufficiently addressed, it means that we should postpone the vote on this law for a month in order to be able to properly assess it in the light of thezzp proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u142	That's a little out of line for me. We are putting forward a motion which has been broadly signed and we are now waiting for the Minister's reply, but I cannot give an answer to the Minister's question. I can't anticipate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u143	Thank you, Mr. Van de Ven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u144	Can I say something else?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u145	Yeah, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u146	We are now waiting for the Minister's response and then we will submit the legislative proposal to the group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u147	Thank you, Mr. Van de Ven. I give the floor to Mr Köhler.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u148	Mr. Chairman. It is more common for debates with a lot of criticism from all sides to eventually lead to a flight forward. I don't like that much. It has been argued from several quarters that the approach to underpaid employment contracts would be desirable to do so in the law; it is those parts of the law we are for, but we should not do it all because employers and temporary employment agencies are now threatening to fly back to other underpaid contracts. Yeah, well, if we're gonna do this kind of thing, we're never gonna be able to deal with a problem. There will always be malicious employers far from all employers, but some are looking for another option every time they are deprived of an underpayment option. In my view, then, what we should do is to block that other possibility again. That's an eternal battle. There is no way we can wait for an overall proposal that will make it impossible for employers to come up with new excuses and new tricks for people to go under-paying forever. Unfortunately, there are employers who are always looking for that. We, as legislators, must then put an end to this. That is, I think, our role as legislator. In particular, the flight to zzp, in the form of false self-employment, has now been mentioned. The Minister considers all the proposals contained in the government agreement that he still wants to introduce a minimum rate for self-employed workers. This must be so high that there is a net social minimum, comparable to the minimum wage. We are in favour of this, of course; something is better than nothing. But that will not stop the entire flight to false self-employment. All those people who are paid a little more than that will still be able to be hired as a bogus self-employed person. But there is another solution to this, namely that we are finally going to implement the DBA Act, the implementation of which has been stagnated and blocked by a large number of political groups in this Chamber. The Minister has made a promise about this too. I'm glad. But more needs to be done. Now he says: we must not only tackle the serious evildoers, but also the ordinary evildoers now. I'd say fine. But we have a lot more to do. We must tackle all the evildoers, that is, anyone who acts in violation of the law. That law makes it possible to look for it from the clients. That's the good thing about the law, too. In the past, only the individual self-employed could be dealt with. That was not fair, and it was not doing anything to track down a million people. Now it's better with that Law DBA. If we were to do that, we would be able to get a lot of false self-employment out of the world. I therefore encourage the Minister to do so. In addition, of course, what has also been introduced by the CDA in the first term is important. This was then not answered by the Minister. Maybe this will be put back on the table by the CDA. There will be disability insurance and pension insurance for self-employed persons who continue to work at their rates so as to avoid undue competition with employees. We do not want to wait until after the opinion of the Borstlap Committee, because this actually means that this discussion will be moved back to the next government period. That's way too late. Now let's talk about this in politics. I therefore once again invite the CDA Group in this Chamber to make a proposal along the lines suggested by Mrs Oomen in the first term. Mr. Chairman. Finally, our criticisms of the law. In addition to our criticisms, we have placed on the table a number of weaknesses in the elements of the law that we consider to be bad. None of them has been compensated by the Minister. He had his arguments for that. One time I found it rather weak and the other time very clear. The conclusion was: it can't be different from what's ahead now. In particular, he had no argument other than intuition about the temporary contracts after three years. I think it's even simpler. The Minister has said here: it is not just about flex less flex and it is also a compromise of one flex contract less and the other flex contract a little more. We regret that this is the case, but we also recognise the political reality. In fact, the Minister says that this point is only due to the political will of the VVD in the coalition agreement and that he cannot get rid of it now. I'll give you that, Minister. You can't get rid of that. But that does not mean that we are going to support you in that. We cannot do that, especially since you have no substantive arguments for it. As regards the cumulation ground, therefore, it remains that in practice it will lead to dismissal on cumulation of grounds, where a transitional fee is now agreed in a determination agreement. In general, the new regulation will reduce this. So that's just a step back for the people who get fired. That's not what we're here for. The shift in the dismissal allowance is the reduction in long-term employment and the increase in short-term employment... will result in a saving for employers. You were right to do that to Mr Van de Ven. That too is a development in the direction we are not in favour of. On all these points, therefore, the debate has not taken away our criticism. Unfortunately, therefore, I cannot do anything other than advise my group to vote against the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u149	Thank you, Mr. Köhler. I give the floor to Mrs Oomen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u150	Madam President. I would very much like to endorse all the words of thanks to the Minister. You have addressed, as you have said in the debate, everything that is possible to ensure that all the self-evidentness that is now often there is to opt for flex and not to go for fixed, is countered. Mr. Chairman. I also said, on behalf of my group, at the beginning of the first term, that it is necessary to divide the labour market equally and that we do not want to make flexible work impossible, but that there should not be a simple choice because flex work is so much cheaper and does not constitute a level playing field in the labour market. That is the mandate that this minister has, and which he has made clear not only through the law but also through his speech today. Mr. Chairman. My criticism in the first term was that the package presented would also involve many avoidances, particularly in thezzp sphere. We have tried to persuade the Minister with the motion before us to come up with a quick and adequate solution to the problem of the people at the bottom in particular. I hope the Minister will make a promise that he will. As far as seasonal work is concerned, I am grateful to the Minister that he has now also acknowledged that it is not just the WW premium, but that other measures in collective agreements can also be discussed. Although this also involves significantly increasing the cost of seasonal work, efforts will nevertheless be made to achieve an adequate solution. The Minister has promised that he will take care of that. Let's go to the payroll pension. That triggers me because I once wrote a report on a safe, sustainable and adequate pension. In my opinion, this is the only "appropriate" pension given that name in this country. With regard to payroll as a phenomenon, we agree that payroll may continue to exist, but that it must take place on an adequate basis. 'Accordingly' I mean in the sense that the people who have payroll should also be given the opportunity to be rewarded in a good way through a collective agreement. When it comes to broadcasting cao, the definitions, the declaration in it and the definitions that Mr Rinnooy Kan has just referred to, I think it would be a good thing if the Minister also looked carefully at the fact that there were no provisions that might make it impossible for certain groups of workers in the payroll sphere to be able to obtain good working conditions at all. That would be the consequence of what is now going on. Mr. Chairman. We are satisfied with the answer. We certainly see the risks. If they can be adequately combated by following the operative part that we have submitted to the Minister, then I will advise the group to be in favour of the legislative proposal. Of course, that depends on the answer the Minister will give us later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u151	I thought I understood that Mrs Oomen had spoken.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u152	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u153	Can I therefore conclude from her silence on disability insurance for self-employed persons that the failure to answer your question has led to a satisfactory answer by the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u154	May I point out that we have a wonderful operative part that is simply from the text I have just said: is the government asking for proposals for newzzp policy to be drawn up by summer 2019 with a definitive timetable aimed at adequate protection ofzzp'ers at the bottom of the labour market?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u155	I welcome Mrs Oomen's reply, because as a co-sponsor of the motion, she is now interpreting the interpretation that the Minister should come forward with proposals on disability insurance for self-employed persons before the summer of this year. It's getting prettier and prettier.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u156	Well, I'm glad you're happy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u157	I would like to ask Mrs Oomen how the operative part of the motion relates to the opinions of the Borstlap committee that are coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u158	If I do, there'll be a mid-term advice. I think that's gonna be around the summer. Then there will be a final report in November. If we have to wait for that final report before any action is taken at the bottom of thezzp... I made it very clear in my speech that this is a first step. I assume that the Borstlap Committee will come up with a much more balanced package. If it is possible to avoid this, and I believe that this will happen, we must at least have adequate protection at the bottom for irreversible incapacity to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u159	I also read in the motion that the government is invited to come forward with proposals by the summer of 2019. I wonder how feasible such a request is: within a month.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u160	I have the feeling that the government is playing chess on many plates, as Mr Schalk and Mr Ester said, that there are a number of very large reform proposals and that they may also be linked to the elaboration of adequate protection forzzp'ers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u161	One final question, which concerns how I should read this motion, in line with Mrs Oomen's statement that she will advise her group to vote in favour of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u162	Provided the Minister's answer is positive.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u163	If I understand this motion correctly, it indicates that there are all kinds of ways of avoiding it. Mrs Oomen is therefore going to propose to her group that we vote in favour of a legislative proposal which we already know is open to all kinds of escapes and which we do not yet know there are options to adequately close those escapes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u164	Yes. I have also said in my first term that a lot is being proposed, but all the proposals also have opportunities for avoidance, and they go as far as we can see, especially to thezzp'ers or phony-zzp'ers. Then I think you should close the hole there. The most important thing for us is this irreversible disability. Let us begin with this as a first step, as I said in the first term. That's it, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u165	Thank you, Mrs Oomen. I understand the Minister would like a...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u166	If it's okay, you don't have to...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u167	Oh, Mr. Ganzevoort, the best horse in the stable. Mr. Ganzevoort. I was a little fast. I've set you to 44 minutes now, and I don't think that's the intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u168	You expect a lot from me, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. In the final round of this discussion we will have a motion whose authors and signatories almost surpass each other in the praises about its formulation. It's nice that they think it's such a wonderful motion. I would almost say: if you have parties that are so in agreement, maybe they should consider forming something of a coalition with each other, you never know where that will lead again. It does raise a question. That question is whether this motion is necessary to address some of the vulnerabilities of this law, whether the motion does so and whether the request for proposals before the summer does not actually show that there is a problem there that is not being resolved. And then the unity of the coalition parties is pleasant and pleasant and such a thing, and I give them my heartfelt thanks, but the question is whether we are doing the work we have to do in this Chamber. Shouldn't we address the serious questions that are there differently? The incomplete, not only of some dismissal grounds, but of some of the arguments and problems of this law, we should not solve by saying that within a month there must suddenly be something that does not seem to be there now, but by saying that we are discussing this in an integral way. There's a bit of a problem. I thank the Minister very much for the answers to the questions. At least I learned a lot, but that wasn't so hard either. I still have a number of questions that have remained, such as the waterbed, the big issue. It is said, however, that a minimum rate is provided for in thezzp schemes. In itself, this seems to address a number of things, but that is a very limited interpretation of working conditions, and that does not do much about this bogus self-employment at the bottom of the labour market. It is precisely these measures that we would need for a proper weighting of the total. The Minister said at a certain point that flex should remain possible by the nature of the work. At other times he said that he also sees the importance of flexible work alongside fixed contracts. My group understands this and agrees with it in itself, but has a question about it, namely whether we are satisfied with the current state of affairs. How does the Minister indicate the very high share of flex in the Netherlands? Is that what we're supposed to want? Is this necessary in all these cases by the nature of the work? In any case, it is my firm impression that in a number of cases it is not necessary by the nature of the work, but it is happening. Long-term flex-based contracts, such as in the temporary agency industry and so on, suggest that it is not always by the nature of the work that there is so much flex-work, but that this is done on very different grounds. In other words, isn't the argument that flex should remain possible by the nature of the work a little too easy? I would still like to hear about that. Then there is a third point. With regard to the enforcement of working conditions in flex, payrolling and so on, the question remains as to what is to be enforced, especially if we do not have a sufficient picture of the differences by sector, within a sector and even within a company. Does the employee really have the rights there? Beautiful intentions are certainly there. We have also spoken positively about a number of examples and measures, but we do have the question as to whether this will work out in the same way. I have asked very specifically whether the Minister has examples of laws which have purely normative effect, without being enforceable and without the possibility of enforcement and so on. I haven't gotten an answer to that yet, so I'm gonna give it one more chance. It is therefore a question of laws which work only because of their normalising effect, which is also mentioned somewhere in this proposal. I would like to have another example of this, because otherwise this is just a fine intention, and no more than that. The most important point now is that we simply need coherence. In a labour market in balance, it is about coherence between the different components. We are still missing this coherence on a number of points, as has been clear today. It's very good that we have an overview. We're definitely gonna study that. This study will certainly help to decide on our vote. 'Cause you understand, Mr. Chairman, that I'm just azzp'er today. I am not in a position of authority with my group, but I am not in a position to predict what their behaviour will be in the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u169	Thank you, Mr. Ganzevoort. I understand the Minister would like a brief ten-minute suspension. I shall suspend the sitting until 11:37 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u170	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u171	Thank you, Madam President. I thank the members of the First Chamber for the friendly answers in the second term, as well as for the questions asked. I would also like to thank the officials who are up here and who have worked very hard in recent times to answer the many questions, even this evening. They always do that very securely, accurately and on time. Greetings for that, just like my big thank you. I do it in order of speaker, Madam President. Mr. Ester asked about the railway book. We are going to make a nice letter for next week, to map out and outline the coherence of the tracks and initiatives for you, including the question of when and what to do with each other. I very much agree with Mr Ester on the empirical evidence and the importance of scientific research. That is why the Ministry has drawn up the knowledge agenda SZW, with a budget of 6 million euros available for policy and evaluation research, precisely in order to learn from scientific research for the policy. There are a number of examples, such as further integration into the labour market, with which we do a number of pilots to learn from it. The SAB will also be evaluated after five years, using a scientific evaluation and knowledge research. Attention will be paid both to the effects of the law as a whole and to the effects of the various parts of the law on the labour market. I am also working with the UWV on a knowledge agenda, for example when it comes to what works in addressing benefit recipients in the WIA. Along different lines, we are therefore trying to anchor scientific research better and more firmly in the policy, to learn from it and to adapt the policy accordingly. Mrs. Sent has asked a lot of questions. In my opinion, some of it had already been answered in the first period, but if it is not, then I apologise for it. I think I have answered the question of the role of the government and employers in relation to payrolling. One aspect has remained, but I would have answered that implicitly, namely the Baijings factor. This concerned in particular the interpretation given by the Supreme Court of the fair remuneration. That part has been filled in recently. There is now a cumulation, which has to be refilled, also by case law in the near future. But the fair remuneration was thus completed through the judgment of the Supreme Court. Mrs Sent also asked why employee protection is more limited in other sectors, but why it is regulated in primary education and primary education in the Civil Code. I indicated that the explanatory statement explained the necessity and the background to this and why it was chosen to be included in the Civil Code. I would like to reiterate that the social partners can deviate from this in the collective agreement and limit it to 36 months if they agree on this at the collective agreement table. The social partners are free to do so. In the explanatory memorandum, it has been explained in detail why this is necessary for primary education, and also that the special position of primary education justifies the existence of a rule in the Code, other than, for example, in secondary education. There is a very extensive reasoning in the explanatory statement. Once again, this concession has come at the request of the social partners in the sector itself, because it is very difficult in primary education to obtain substitute workers, also because of the fear that they will no longer be able to join the school where they would like to work. Once again, the collective agreement may derogate from it and the social partners' wish to limit it to 36 months can be settled. That doesn't stand in the way of this law. Mrs Sent asked about the employee perspective in seasonal work. I do share Mrs Sent's concerns in that regard when it comes to what that means for the workers. It also asked in the first period for the possibility of circumvention of an exception for seasonal work in the case of premium differentiation. Such an exception is not in the law either, precisely because I share those concerns. In the second response to your Chamber, I explained why I do not feel that way. At the same time, I think it is important that especially in sectors which are exposed to international competition and where the nature of production really depends, for example, on climatic conditions or seasons, there is the possibility to play on that. Hence the development of the annual hourly standards and the exceptions in the case of, for example, pupils and students for less than 12 hours a week. As far as seasonal workers are concerned, too, this legislative proposal gives employers an incentive to offer people a permanent contract. This can be done, for example, in the form of a standard of annual hours. A form that is now becoming more attractive because of the differentiation in the WW premium in terms of those 5 percentage points. The Bbl money that we have made available for the sector is also intended to increase development and training opportunities in the sector. This, too, offers a perspective for the workers. So there are a number of points and at the same time we also see that we need to follow this to prevent it from becoming a revolving door. We certainly have an eye for that. Mr Rinnooy Kan asked about the position of payroll forces in the scope of the ABU-cao's when they are written out there. The negotiations for the broadcasting cao's for both the ABU and the NBBU are ongoing. Unfortunately, I cannot anticipate that. If payroll workers are indeed written out of the scope of collective agreements, I would like to make the following point. If so, they derive the right to the same working conditions as those applicable to the user and to an adequate pension scheme under the law itself and also under the WAADI.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u172	Very briefly and, once again, I do not need a definitive ruling now either. My concern would focus on situations where the user does not have a pension scheme. Would you mind taking a look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u173	I'd like to take a look at that. I will come back to that in writing, because I believe that this has to do with the scope of the STiPP scheme. I will come back to that for the sake of completeness. I'll do that in writing. Mr Nagel made a comment on the CPB and the lack of analysis of labour market effects. That's not true. The CPB also looked at the difference between fixed and temporary contracts in qualitative terms when passing on the coalition agreement. They have indicated that it is very difficult to quantify. They have also done so in the study of Kansrijk labour market policy, where they have scored a number of measures as to what it means for the difference between fixed and temporary contracts. They score positive and negative aspects of parts. It is only difficult to attach a quantitative effect to it. It is often very difficult to predict how many permanent jobs it will produce. However, the CPB recognises in the transfer of the government agreement that the difference between firm and flex is reduced by these measures and that this also reduces the difference, which also addresses the IMF, the OECD and the European Commission, through the policy. Mr Schalk has tabled a motion on conscientious objectors. I would like to stress, in the light of legal history, that I assume that recourse to the cumulation ground involving the F-ground will be very limited. I have already said in my first term that in recent years since the introduction of the Work and Security Act it has only happened once and then it has been rejected. I also assume that the judge will continue to be critical of the conscientious objectors. I also assume that the question whether the employer has done his best to organise the work in a different way will always play a part in the cumulation ground. This review is no different than it is now with the F-ground. If there's a problem of conscience, it's either one or zero. It's yes or no. It is therefore of a different nature than other forms of dismissal. It can't be part of the issue. So I expect it doesn't happen very often. I'd like to monitor that. And against this background, I am prepared to leave the judgment on this motion to your Chamber. So I'm talking about the motion with the letter "H." Then the motion-Van de Ven/Oomen, the motion with the letter I. That motion is widely signed and has broad support in this Chamber. I agree with the importance, and I have tried to do so this evening in my contribution, of a parallel development of different pathways, including in the case ofzzp, on pay-as-you-go payments in case of illness and on developing over a lifetime. So I think it is very important that these separate routes are developed in a coherent way. I also see the importance of the measures on the bottom of thezzp market. It is therefore necessary to reduce the risk of a waterbed effect. I therefore understand the pressing call for further proposals to be made before the summer on the protection of the bottom of thezzp market and the prevention of bogus self-employment. I intend to come forward with these proposals before the summer. I will therefore outline a timetable for the proposals, as requested in the motion. That's why I'm happy to give the motion judgment Chamber. Mr Köhler made a number of comments on subjects raised during the first period. In his opinion, I had not responded, or at least I did not move towards the SP Group. What I do appreciate, and I would have liked to have said so, is that the SP has indeed supported a number of aspects of this law both in the Lower House and in the Upper House. I appreciate that very much, because it's also a recognition. It is therefore a measure that seeks to reduce precarious flex work, such as the premium differentiation and the proposal that callers receive a transition fee from day one. Thank you for that. Unfortunately, you may not be able to support it, but you have another week. Finally, two questions from Mr Ganzevoort. The first question was: can the Minister indicate the increased flexibilisation? How does this fit in with the nature of the work? Well, I think it is true that over the past two to three decades the labour market has been increasingly flexible. And that is also the case, as I said in my introduction, that the current system no longer fits in with that changed society. The number of flexible workers has increased from 1.1 million to almost 2 million in 2018. The current laws and regulations do not succeed enough to support employers and employees in establishing an employment relationship that is in line with the needs and nature of the work. This, in my view, is precisely what I believe to be the importance of the measures contained in the legislative proposal. On the one hand, they are aimed at supporting employers to offer more regular contracts by removing risks. On the other hand, these flexible workers offer more protection. It remains possible when it comes to the nature of the work, but I agree with Mr Ester's very first sentence this afternoon: flexibility has a price everywhere in the economy, except in the labour market. We are partly trying to correct that with this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u174	At this time of day, repeating too much is not very useful, but I do not think this was the point I was referring to in my question. The question was next. The Minister says: if it is necessary by the nature of the work, flexible work must remain possible. I fully agree with that. My question was: can he therefore indicate whether all the flexible labour we now have is always needed by the nature of the work? I do not think that is the case. That suggestion is woken up by saying that it comes from the nature of the work. I think it comes from the nature of the current system and from the current labour market. That is a different situation than the view that it is by the nature of the work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u175	No, I agree with Mr Ganzevoort. In all the flexible work we are seeing now, we have to ask ourselves whether it fits the need for the nature of the work. The answer is no. I think it is also due to institutional differences, which lead to a division, as Mrs Sent and Mr Ester said this morning. This division in the labour market is also the result of institutional institutions, which we want to reduce by means of this legislative proposal. In that sense, I also see it as a support for policy. Finally, Mr Ganzevoort asked whether there were any laws that had only a regulatory effect. The officials have thought about that for a while. I am an institutional economist myself, by the way. An institutional economist assumes norms, values, laws and institutions that influence economic action. So I take that standarding for granted. But we have two examples: good employership and good employeeship. That's entered in the Civil Code. That is actually a standard article that was subsequently completed by case law. But it is indeed a general container concept. It is also true that the call for action contained in this legislative proposal can be maintained, and is of such a nature, in civil law. So employees can go to court to get them right. It's not just standard-setting, it's another reason to go to court. I hope that with good employership and good employeeship I have given two fine examples that Mr Ganzevoort can chew on. Thank you, Madam President. I thought it was an exciting day. And it's before noon.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u176	Fantastic. I said not after midnight. And it's before midnight. It's seven minutes later than planned according to our playbook. I love it. Thank you all very much for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u177	I have come to deal with this bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on this bill? That's the case. Then I suggest we vote on the bill next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-5.u178	I shall suspend the meeting for the night until Tuesday 21 May 2019 at 09.30 a.m.
