ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u1	The next item is the Implementation Act amending the Fourth Anti-Money Laundering Directive (35245), the Bank Data Referral Portal Act (35238) and the Implementation Act finally registering stakeholders of companies and other legal entities (35179). A warm word of welcome to the Minister of Finance. Thank you for joining us. It's gonna be a seat, so I hope you brought some mints. I myself have some sintering-class poems to write, but I have plenty of time for that, because the various participants have asked for tough speaking time, I might add. We have eight participants on the side of the Chamber. The first speaker is Mr Van der Linde of the VVD Group. He's gonna talk to us for 15 minutes. We're gonna have a good time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u2	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u3	Mr. Chairman. 15 minutes is probably my personal best, but it's important enough. In recent weeks, we have been bombarded with letters from stakeholders and ultimately stakeholders explaining that anti-money laundering legislation is extremely useful, but for others, not for themselves. One by one, all those people who have approached us have a point, but if we took all the exceptions, we would have no policy left. Mr. Chairman. We're not doing this for nothing. Money laundering is the back of organised crime. EUR 20 billion to 25 billion are laundered annually in the Netherlands. Every euro of it is earned by crime. International criminal organizations directly threaten our daily lives. Waste dumping, extortion, misdemeanours and cold-blooded liquidations are the order of the day in the Netherlands. Our oiled financial system is being abused for the organisation and settlement of serious crime. Crime pays in the Netherlands. We want to put a stop to that. That is why we are doing this, and then we are doing this, but we have to do that in that order, and we have to look at how to solve some of the implementation problems and how to remove the sharp edges of them. Mr. Chairman. In February 2018, we discussed here the fourth Anti-Money Laundering Directive and its transposition into our own Wwft. We knew then that this regulation was not perfect and that there would be many changes. We did not know that the problem would be so big and that there would be so much fuss with the Dutch banks. We also didn't know that almost 6,000 people at those banks would be in daily mode one and a half years later with the screening of new customers and the viewing of your and my transfers. I regret that the Minister for Justice and Security cannot be present today, because this affects his portfolio and, as far as I am concerned, the core of it: the fight against crime. Fortunately, however, he has heard the VVD position on this from my colleague Dilan Yeşilgöz on several occasions. Today we are talking about a necessary adaptation of this legislation and it is good to take stock of it. It's not purely positive. On the positive side, last year the banks were woken up roughly, and they are now doing their best to meet their legal requirements and to support the objectives. On the positive side, all gatekeepers in the system understand that every euro that is laundered is a euro that is earned with crime and that criminals can only be hit by thoroughly destroying their earning model. Negative is that the government is lagging behind all these activities. In Zoetermeer, with the FIU, there are a few dozen people who have to work against those 6,000 bank employees and those many hundreds of gatekeepers outside the banks. In Zoetermeer are really the best people you can get for this job, but how can you do that job with 63 fte? Or if it was double, how can you work against that? And if they consider a transaction suspicious, how much capacity is there at the state's attorney's office and at the judiciary to move on? Negative is also the result below the line. How many bad guys do we really catch with all these thousands of people? Is there really less black money flowing through the Netherlands? I would like to hear from the Minister what he sees under the lines of the policy that has been put in place. Last year I made a large number of work visits and interviews. We've been to banks, to brokers, to notaries. We've been to the FIU. We have been to De Nederlandsche Bank, the FEC Council, the AMLC, with a service provider in compliance. I apologize for the alphabet soup I pour on you. Anyway, it led to the wish list I presented in June. Many ideas have now been put forward to achieve much better results with the same people and the same resources. That started simply: use that social service number when reporting unusual transactions. Give banks access to the Basic Registration Persons to check their customers' address. And a little bit more complicated: if you throw customers out, you want to be able to share that information with other banks. Even better: if banks are going to work together, they're going to work together, then you can really get a picture of the money flows. If you can also cooperate with the justice system in that whole process, you can also set together search priorities. The cabinet response on our wish list was a bit lukewarm, but I know that there is a lot of work going on in the meantime. Banks do not sit still and have already shaped that partnership. Yesterday, the Minister of Finance also consulted a bill that regulates three issues, including banning cash payments above €3,000. That is, by the way, the implementation of a motion by my colleague Mr Foort van Oosten. He wanted to lower the border even further, but at least the Minister is moving towards the VVD proposal. But now the rest of the wish list. Will the Minister now also arrange that we can use that bsn and that the Basic Registration Persons and the entire UBO register can be accessed by banks and, if so, when can we look forward to this proposal? Mr. Chairman. There are three legislative proposals in one debate today. I'm just gonna start with the UBO register. That register is almost indispensable for international detection. Criminals won't be able to hide their money behind a Christmas tree of e.g. However, the VVD group is very unhappy with the design, and that is how I feel personally. Anyone will be able to cook in private details of Dutch entrepreneurs. People who have a business or a small business, whether or not they earn a good living, but who are not waiting for criminals to put together their hitlist through the UBO register. An entrepreneur also wants to be able to go to work quietly, without having to look in his rear-view mirror. Entrepreneurs also have children who have to ride their bikes to school. A public register opens the door to kidnapping, extortion and other crime. These people are rightly afraid of that. I am pleased that the Minister shared these feelings and suggested by letter that we link access to the DigiD or later the eID, so that you know who was looking for it. We want that to be laid down in the law now. With Mr Bruins and Mr Ronnes, therefore, I have an amendment to this point in part No. 8 (35179) tabled. It's not ideal for the VVD. We really would have saved ourselves a lot of work if the UBO register had been set up from Brussels in such a way that only the investigating authorities and the qualified gatekeepers had access. Anyway, now that we're not, at least we're doing what we can. A second amendment under my own name is about mosques. The Minister states in the documents that he sees the risk of terrorist financing but does not take action. I'm asking him to take that step. In February 2018, I asked how far the logic of the UBO concept goes and who is the ultimate interested party of Feyenoord, the CDA or the State of the Netherlands, for example. Of course I didn't really get an answer to that at the time, because everything was still under construction, but that is exactly where the shoe is now wringing. Charities drivers want to know why they're UBO now and how they're gonna be in that register. Pension fund managers wonder what purpose this serves and, for example, vve's, owners' associations, do not know what happens to them. For example, there is a whole range of stakeholders who only look at the legislative proposal with doubts. Well, now it's invented to exclude church societies. I think that's the world upside down. This Chamber is currently investigating money flows into mosques and is very concerned about this. Then why an exception for mosques? I cannot reconcile that with the system of the law or with the problems in practice. I have tabled an amendment to simply bring church societies and therefore mosques back under the law, with apologies to my wife, who is involved in one of the Dutch churches. But, yes, a PEP and a UBO on one pillow, that's where the minister sleeps.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u4	I would just like to point out that this is the amendment to item No. 9 (35179).
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u5	Such a lovely quote, we should...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u6	It'll shut you up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u7	Yeah, that's really nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u8	And do you want that on your conscience?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u9	That I'm violating the silence that fell after that? Yeah. Mr. Chairman. All crazy on a stick. Mr Van der Linde stressed that he was concerned about mosques, but his amendment was about all the churches. I do wonder if he has an insight into this. We should be able to tell from the Trade Register how many church societies are not in any other way legal entities, and how many of those churches are mosques that are not in any other way a legal entity.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u10	That's gonna be hundreds soon, depending on how you look at these churches. A church has legal personality under the law, so without having to create a legal entity for it. I also know that many mosques have a foundation form. That does not apply to all of them, by the way. However, this logic also applies to many other legal entities. That is why I refer to the example of vve's. What is the ultimate purpose of that? But I find it illogical to exclude only churches, while you take all the other legal entities.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u11	I understand the logic. I can see that, too, but I don't necessarily agree with it. I just wonder how many church societies there are that are not also a foundation or an association with members, which in this case does not count. Most of them will be a foundation, I guess. Are there any church societies that are not a foundation, which are mosque and which then fall within the definition of Mr Van der Linde? Does he have any idea? He says hundreds, but aren't they all church societies that are also a foundation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u12	To my knowledge, most mosques are a foundation. In my opinion, most Protestant churches in the Netherlands are not. I understand very well what Mr Bruins is trying to do. Yes, this also affects Dutch churches, on the same foot.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u13	Finally. Does he agree with me that if a church society is also a foundation, then it would no longer be necessary to make that church society also UBO-related? Or does he think it should always be?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u14	Not necessarily. If we are going to introduce this UBO register and certain legal entities, and I say it carefully, there is no point in doing so, then you will get a flight in other legal entities. So there is a risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u15	At the same time. To what extent does Mr Van der Linde see this as an infringement of privacy that also affects religious freedom? When people are active in a church society and are responsible for it, it means that their beliefs are made public. How does he see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u16	I would share that objection at the time when we were going to record his beliefs from every Dutchman. We haven't done that in a very long time, and for very good reasons. Someone who goes on the board of a church society or on the board of a mosque, of course, already gives up a part of the privacy, because it is on a website, it is publicly issued and it carries out administrative acts. So I don't see that objection. If that were true, it would also apply to political parties, for example. If you go on the board of a political party, you will also be placed on the UBO register, while it may not be desirable at all for us to keep track of people from which party they belong. So I understand very well why the question is being asked, but I still think that you cannot go through with that logic.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u17	I do not agree with Mr Van der Linde on this point. Given the freedom of religion, I do not share the view that you can make that link with church societies and that you can put them in a public registration system.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u18	Clear. You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u19	By the way, I respect that belief. Nor am I surprised that the Christian parties feel that way. Mr. Chairman. I have another question about the UBO register. Which companies under a listed company should now be listed separately in the UBO register? In the note following the report, I read that 100% subsidiaries of stock exchange companies are also exempt from the UBO register, but is this also true for 100% granddaughters and 100% granddaughters? Then I come to the amendment of the Fourth Anti-Money Laundering Directive. When we spoke at the beginning of 2018 about the rapid rise of the bitcoin, there appeared to be a complete gap in the legislation. There are rules for paying, rules for investing and rules for gambling, but did not apply to cryptocurrency. That hole is now closed. Meanwhile, we see that cryptocurrencies such as the bitcoin are widely used for theft, crime and payment of illegal products. Bitcoin mixers are used to erase the traces of those transactions. I can throw numbers, but let me mention one. The FIOD estimates that 800 million of darknet products will be dealt with annually by cryptocurrency. Just by Bestmixer, a site that was pulled out of the air by the FIOD earlier this year, 200 million euros of transactions were hidden. In short, it is a good thing that we are now rolling this out about this sector. I realize that Wwft also affects virtual currencies and tokens that are not part of payment systems. I'm talking about very innovative products that, for example, account for energy costs between the supplier of solar panels, the energy company and the owner of a Tesla. The sharper Wwft is then a huge hiccup for this innovation in these companies. How does the Minister view this? However we arrange it for all these virtual resources, enforcement is very important. Attracting new customers is going to produce a lot of paperwork. Those parties that respect the rules deliberately drop commercial opportunities. You have to prevent bad players in this market from taking those opportunities and expressing the good ones. So enforcement should just take care of the level playing field. One more question about the Wet referencing portal. Probably would've turned into a hammer piece if the other two weren't there. I have just one question about this. Can the Minister indicate whether there will be an increase in the number of calls, now that all this will be much easier? I'm not quite there yet, Mr. Chairman. Apart from these concrete legal texts, the VVD struggles with a more difficult point that runs through the whole policy. We have appointed the banks as gatekeeper and thus our partner in the fight against crime. The banks do the handicrafts, provide data, think along and give advice. If you want that partnership to run properly, you also have to provide a safe environment. An environment in which the gatekeepers can explain their doubts or problems. An environment in which gatekeepers openly tell what went wrong, so others can learn from it. That's a safety culture, like in aviation or in health care. But instead, we read in the newspaper that the Public Prosecutor's Office is raiding another large bank. We really don't need to feel sorry for the banks.The VVD also really believes that they have a serious responsibility, but the cooperation that the cabinet is aiming for now is a safe environment with clear rules. Justice must have its course. It is not up to the Chamber to interfere in criminal investigations, but we do wonder how the cabinet sees them converging. Was there any consultation with the D.A. about that? Do we have some kind of target date to finish old cases? How far does the D.A. want to go back in time in cases like this? How do we see that in the future? Could the DA be a partner and a detective at the same time?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u20	I am just trying to understand exactly what Mr Van der Linde is proposing. Banks have just misbehaved. At least ABN is investigating this, but ING has established this. They really have criminal... Well, Mr. Van der Linde knows all about it. Now he actually says: go a little fast, because the collaboration is not going well; hurry up, OM. Is that his call? I just don't quite understand what he means. If there are wrongdoings, shouldn't the D.A. just punish them, and frankly prosecute them, to the level of the person? Well, then we can't sit down with the Department of Defense and investigate future abuses together, can we?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u21	Last year Mr Nijboer had a good partner to me when it was about that one big bank where it was a big mess at the time. We're feeling uncomfortable right now. We are asking these banks to cooperate with us. In addition, we want to give them the space to work together. We want to talk to them about research. You're making them a real partner. That's what you do with the D.A.'s office. That's one. Two. That same state's attorney's office could enter at any time because of an old criminal case. I imagine the cabinet is thinking about that inconvenience. Well, then you've got to sort of finish those old criminal cases. No misunderstanding: the law must have its course. I would like to make that very clear. There is no excuse for things that have gone wrong. By the way, my view is not that the banks are obstructing this, but I do wonder how we will proceed with this in the future. Could the DA be a partner and a detective at the same time? Because I find that legally uncomfortable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u22	I don't think there's much else to it. If the banks have gone criminally over the line in one case it has really been established and in another case a major investigation has been launched................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. At the same time, banks now have a function to report to the Public Prosecutor's Office when they see a criminal in action. I think they should keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u23	We agree on that, but my question is how are we going to shape that. As far as I am concerned, this happens in a way where you can then work together again in those partnerships and talk about things that have not gone well. Mr. Chairman. I've got two minutes. That's just gonna work. I have a few more general points I would like to make. The first is about personal security. We have now greatly expanded the number of gatekeepers, with good reasons, of course. But we now see that in small municipalities the brokers and notaries are in the line of fire. For example, brokers have very little information about the origin of funds, but have to report unusual transactions. If that leads to a criminal case, they are named in the case documents. Can't we work around this? People feel really unsafe because of that. Can't we think about anonymous reports, making you lose it? The second point concerns customer screening. It is a good thing that this is happening, and there is no misunderstanding about that, but we understand that you now have to screen all the residents behind a bank account of an association of owners and that you have to do the same in an energy cooperative. This complicates the energy transition, which we want so badly and for which the banks are crucial. How do we deal with that in the future? The third point concerns the continuity of services, which I raised earlier. My fear is true: Dutch expats abroad are being ordered by their Dutch bank. That is allowed, because there is no obligation to serve Dutch people abroad, but is there really nothing conceivable to keep all this workable for the expats involved and for the banks? The next step is to reduce the service provided to non-Dutch people in the Netherlands. I can already see that we will no longer be able to provide services to the OPCW, the International Criminal Court or the EEA. Then our locational climate has a serious problem. How does the Minister guarantee that embassies and international organisations will continue to be served? As a result, I cannot ignore the politically prominent people, or PEPs. We, as MPs, also belong to this, but I am particularly concerned here about diplomats, the people in international organisations and the directors of state participations. The implementation of the PEPs scheme cannot be monitored. One bank handles that screening just neatly indoors, the other bank sends thick packs of forms with incomprehensible questions. PEPs on the board of a football club attract the entire board into the wonderful world of anti-money laundering measures. We also notice that some service providers, such as providers of payment machines, simply do not feel like it anymore. Mr. Chairman. This is not the way forward. Because of the problems of undermining and the mixing of the underworld and the upperworld, you would like to look much wider than just Members of Parliament or diplomats. This can only be done if you work risk-based, as the directive also states, and in such a way that the people concerned notice as little of it as possible. Is the Minister prepared to talk to DNB and the banks about streamlining screening? Finally, Mr President. Organised crime is becoming increasingly international and increasingly organised. We know that our legal instruments are not sufficient to tackle crime and we must constantly look for new ways. Let's do that and let's keep looking at how we can do it in such a way that Dutch people can continue to do their thing and continue to earn their living. It takes time, and it keeps puzzled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u24	Thank you. Mr Ronnes from the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u25	Mr. Chairman. Money laundering and terrorist financing are persistent problems that are increasingly difficult to grasp in a digitalising world. Recently, the report De backder van Amsterdam, which described how organized crime in Amsterdam is thriving. Amsterdam is also described as a hub of underground financial transactions. It is estimated that 10 billion will be channelled by Amsterdam every year. The estimated amount of money laundered annually in the Netherlands is 16 billion. That's a giant shadow economy that has a big impact on the upper world. Of that criminal money, murders are bought on order and loads of narcotics are paid. But also gatekeepers and search services are bribed and the money is invested in our real estate market. And that in turn has an impact on the health of that market. A problem not to be underestimated! And then I haven't mentioned the many undermining activities in my own Brabant that are partly related to this. Mr. Chairman. This awareness has been evident throughout Europe for years. We are dealing here today with three laws that jointly implement the amended Fourth Anti-Money Laundering Directive in Dutch law. The Anti-Money Laundering Directives follow each other rapidly and further extend the possibilities offered by financial units and search services to detect money laundering. My party also sees the added value of this. For years, we have been fighting for the fight against organised drug crime and terrorism. Squeezing off the finances of these hard criminals is a proven effective tool. The commitment is therefore to make the EU an unattractive area for criminals to settle. Compliments to this cabinet in advance, because that really makes it work. Mr. Chairman. My party believes that far-reaching measures can be taken to this end. We therefore see positive points in the Minister's plan for money laundering. The same applies to the amended Fourth Anti-Money Laundering Directive. The strength of these measures lies in the fact that they are being introduced in all EU Member States. So we will make it increasingly difficult for the criminals to get their feet on the ground with us. That brings me straight to my first question to the Minister. A measure such as the UBO register will only be effective if it has been introduced in all Member States. Only then will there be no waterbed effect. However, I understand that in September the European Parliament adopted a resolution calling on the Commission to monitor more closely the implementation of the anti-money laundering rules. Is it true that the Commission has launched infringement proceedings against Member States which are lagging behind in importing? What states are we talking about? To what extent will the Minister in Europe persuade other countries to implement the rules in the same way? Before I deal with the legislative proposals separately, I would first like to address an underlying problem which I note in our approach to money laundering. We set up a system of gatekeepers, often private bodies, which we make co-responsible for the monitoring task. This is good when it comes to large bodies, such as large banks, where it is unclear exactly who reports unusual transactions. However, this does not apply to private notaries or estate agents from a village. Does the Minister have any regard for these professions and the risk that they may run? What support can they receive if they are threatened or put under pressure by criminals? First of all, the Implementation Act amends the 4th Anti-Money Laundering Directive. An important change is that virtual data providers and storage wallets are now to some extent also to be identified as gatekeepers. For example, they should also report unusual transactions. I'd like to ask the Minister how we're dealing with doubles in that gatekeeper's role. If you want to buy shares through an investor platform with a linked bank account, the necessary screening has already been done to obtain that bank account. That gatekeeper's role is already fulfilled. So what added value does it have that, for example, the investor platform should do the same screening again? How do we ensure that we do not do double or triple checks on the same subjects and individuals in the same way? Then the reference portal bank details. I see this as a positive development. At present, a cumbersome procedure is needed to obtain bank data, which sometimes takes weeks. By setting up a referral portal in which you can request bank data within a minute, search services can work a lot faster. However, I do have some questions about this, first of all about the concerns of the Council of State about the referral portal. I think he is right to say that unnecessary data can be provided. That is what guarantees are being built in, I read. However, I think it is important that the Minister acknowledges here that the referral portal will be more than just a technical provision, given the consequences of the legislative proposal. The key question I have about this bill is how to ensure that information from the referral portal is combined or not competently. The Minister states that there can be no question of combining the information given. I would like to hear from the Minister how this is monitored. To what extent is there a view in an organisation of what is done with these data after they have been removed from the referral portal? Is the organisation's data protection officer the designated person to monitor this? Mr. Chairman. It is also clear that the referral portal will be used not only for the detection of money laundering and terrorist financing, but also for other offences. A directive has been adopted for this, as I have read. Can the Minister indicate what offences are involved in this extension of the use of the referral portal? When will this directive be introduced and work with it? My next question concerns the possibility for bank clients to check who requested their data in the referral portal. Can the Minister explain how this will work? Can people apply to a bank at any time? To what extent is a bank obliged to cooperate? I read that the public service that asked for information must give permission before a bank can share the information with the client. What will this procedure look like? Should a public service take as a starting point that it grants permission, or is a service entirely free to grant such consent? Despite this automation of processes, the size of the work will increase greatly by, for example, the FIU. I see that the banks invest a great deal and use manpower to combat money laundering. Public services such as the FIU cannot be left behind. It has just been said that the work there must be done with more than 60 people. How will the Minister improve the organization, size and impact of, for example, the FIU? Banks work rule-based. That brings out a lot of data, including reports. How's the FIU handling that risk-based? Then I come to the last part, the UBO register. Frankly, that is not an easy legislative proposal for my group. The scope of both who and what should be in the register, and who should be allowed to look in the register, is very large. It is too easy for me to hide behind the fact that European legislation prescribes this, even though, of course, it is, because my group sees very much the added value of the UBO register. However, I can say that if it had been up to the CDA, the scope would not have been as great as it has now become. It will have a significant impact on SMEs and create unrest and privacy sensitivity among entrepreneurs. That is why I welcome the Minister's commitment to working actively with the Chamber of Commerce to communicate about the register so that entrepreneurs know where they stand. As has been said, the text of the directive is clear and unambiguous and therefore the Netherlands is bound by it. That is why I will not dwell on this for long in my further contribution, but I will pay attention to the UBO register itself. First of all, I would like to look closely at what exactly the filling of the register is going to look like. The register should be ready by 10 January 2020, but will then be used for the first 18 months to fill the register. The Minister states that until then the number of calls will be limited. What does he base that on and does that mean that the register will be incomplete but already transparent and public? So how exactly will the filling of the register work? Then as to the Minister's intention to improve the way counsellors of the UBO register are identified. It is not clear when the delivery of the improved identification capabilities of the counsellor is planned. Is this delivery subject to the entry into force of the Digital Government Act and can this be delayed for a long time by the delivery of this new functionality and, if so, can the Minister then bring to the attention of the Minister of the Interior of the urgency of the rapid handling of the UBO Registry Bill? It is important, however, that it is fully operational when it is to be used. Then there are some questions about the legal entities whose UBO will be entered in the register. First of all, the question about the requirement for formation. UBOs of legal persons established in the Netherlands will have to be entered in the Dutch UBO register. If the legal entity is established in another Member State, the UBO will be entered in the register of the Member State concerned. But what about the legal entities that are established outside the EU and that need to be relocated? Then I get to the point of church societies. They will not in principle be bound by the obligation to give up the UBO. I read in the Minister's written answers that this can change if there are concrete signs that church societies are being abused for money laundering or terrorist financing. That's an approach I can understand. However, I also read that the reason that church societies do not fall within the scope of the UBO register stems from the GDPR. How does this relate to the Minister's remark that church societies may in future fall within the scope of the UBO register? I would also like to know what the possibilities are for foundations showing religion or other beliefs to fall outside the scope of the UBO register. For the initial examination of this bill, the BIT opinion, the opinion of the ICT Examination Office, appeared on the UBO register itself and the method of shaping it. It is positive that the BIT indicates that the basis of the system may be there on 10 January 2020. That's fine. This seems to ensure that developments are on track. However, I would like to ask the Minister to what extent there is a delay now that we are having this debate a few weeks later than planned. What impact does this have on the envisaged timeline and to what extent is the Minister's response that a relapse scenario should be devised if the timely implementation fails, still topical? In addition, I am concerned about the second aspect of the BIT opinion, which is how the register will proceed after 10 January 2020. The BIT indicates that little plans are known about this and therefore it is unclear how the register will be filled and further developed. That is quite an urgent opinion from the BIT. I can only read that agreements have been made and that the importance is endorsed. I would like to hear from the Minister what this means. Then the system of feedback. Settings should report back if they discover that data in the UBO registry does not match the data available to the institutions themselves. If the return notification is made, the register will be sent to the legal entity: under investigation. One of the questions is for how long. It's a public register, so that means there's gonna be a flag under "in investigation." You don't want to be in a public register as a family business or as a company for a long time, especially if it hasn't been justified. Then there is a question about the legislative proposals together. The UBO Registry and the Bank Data Referral Portal Act, as well as the still to be expected UBO Trust Registry and the Bill for the exchange of data through collaborations, are bringing about major changes in what the government can collect and process information. How can we, as a chamber, check that? It's sometimes shredded in ministries. What's the Minister gonna do about it? Is the Minister prepared to make it clear which registers exist, what information is collected in them and how these registers relate to each other? Finally, I would like to ask a few questions about the extensive plans for dealing with money laundering presented before the summer. There are many positive points in this plan. If it is all to be implemented, it will be a major improvement in the fight against money laundering. It is also important to see the link with the wider approach to undermining crime. That brings me to the first question about the plan of action, namely: who is responsible for the implementation of the points? Is that in all respects the Minister of Finance, is it the Minister of JenV or is it a shared responsibility? How do we get a good overview of this as a Chamber? Then a question about the requested opinion from the Dutch Data Protection Authority on the possibility of making the BSN number accessible. Is there a deadline for this for the Dutch Data Protection Authority? Advice is requested on whether certain institutions can also have access to the private part of UBO. Isn't the Minister too careful about this? We set up all kinds of registrations to quickly access reliable electronic data and ask gatekeepers to check properly, but we do not give them the tool to reliably link the data with a unique key, such as the BSN number. The situation is that banks still have to request this from their customers themselves. Can the Minister, in parallel with the consultation question to the Dutch Data Protection Authority, make plans to enable the BSN number to be used by banks and thereby use the opinion of the Dutch Data Protection Authority to update the proposal afterwards? Finally, what could be the consequences of any negative evaluation of the Financial Action Task Force? Does the Minister look forward to that evaluation with confidence? There is also the amendment that we have tabled together with the VVD and the Christian Union. It is really a question of ratifying what the Minister has promised in the law. In doing so, we think that we have a somewhat stronger guarantee to obtain maximum guarantees for the persons and bodies registered in the UBO. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. That was my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u26	The amendment you referred to refers to concerns the item No. 8. Mr Alkaya has requested a speaking time of Fidel Castro-like proportions. He's gonna talk to us for half an hour. Here's to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u27	It is flattering, Mr President, but I even suspect that I need less time than Mr Ronnes, let alone Mr Castro. But we'll see. Mr. Chairman. Today we are dealing with three laws, in fact three laws with similar aims: to tackle financial fraud. We do not really need to talk about this objective here today, because I do not think there is any party in this Chamber that, for example, does not want to tackle the laundering of criminal money, tax fraud and terrorist financing. But the question is: how do you do it in a way that is effective and that deals with the financial interests of the evildoers, and not in a way that also monitors the finances of innocent people as if they were fraud, criminal or terrorist, or in a way that replaces small businesses because the administrative burden becomes far too high? The following is of course involved in this. On the one hand, digital payments, and all the obligations that go with them, are rightly left to the market, and thus to commercial parties. But on the other hand, we all consider these services to be so important that we have established a great deal of rules for them. Those mountains are expanding. That's what we're seeing today. At some point you come to the point that a service is left to the market, in this case digital payments, but that the cost of complying with all the rules and laws becomes so complex and so expensive that only a few large companies can meet it at all. So you get some kind of oligopoly. We shouldn't have that. The possibility for small companies to challenge large multinationals is becoming increasingly limited, because of the rules and laws that are introduced for understandable reasons, but at some point you can conclude that we may be dealing here with a kind of utility and no longer with a functioning free market. This situation now also threatens to arise when it comes to digital payments, in which many of the so-called fintechs depend on the large banks. So they can't challenge these big banks, but they're actually obliged to work with them. Only other multinationals with well-stocked bags, such as Google and Facebook, can offer real competition. It will only be a fight between titans, where small businesses can no longer intervene. And whether we should be happy with that competition between Google, Facebook and the like and those big commercial banks is only very much the question. In general terms, this is about the sector, what is going on and what we are standing for. Then specifically about the laws. With regard to the amendment of the Fourth Anti-Money Laundering Directive, I have two main concerns. I'm gonna go through that. I have several questions about it. It is mainly about privacy aspects, but also about innovation and innovation, or the barrier to it in the sector. So I'm gonna start with the implementation law. As I have said, my party also supports the fight against crime by taking criminals into their pockets and by tackling terrorist financing to combat terrorism. That seems to us to be a good approach. The amendment of the Fourth Anti-Money Laundering Directive brings companies offering virtual currency services and digital storage wallets under that regime as well. So that's basically good. Digital money such as the bitcoin turns out to be commonly used and accepted in many shadowy circles. In fact, I find that very regrettable, because an alternative to the large commercial banks remains essential as far as I am concerned. That is also how the bitcoin was created, for example, after the financial crisis. So we must not demotivate the use of digital money outside commercial banks, but we must protect it from criminal use. The most logical place is now also being addressed to provide that protection, namely the storage wallets and the exchange offices. It is good that they will also have to investigate who their customers are and report unusual transactions. But do we not miss our goal if the obligations arising from it become too heavy? This would be good news for the banks, but bad news for the diversity of the sector, if diversity is already present at the moment. The Directive requires Member States to ensure that such companies are registered. There is therefore a registration requirement for companies offering wallets and the like for that kind of virtual currency. The directive does not therefore provide for a licence requirement, but nevertheless the cabinet seems to opt for a system that really resembles a disguised licence requirement. Why, I ask the Minister. What's the advantage of this? And does that benefit really outweigh the risk that smaller companies will not be able to participate in this sector at all because of very high costs? If that is proportional for small businesses, I ask the cabinet. I think it is very good that the Minister deviates from a European directive if he considers it necessary, but at other times he did not, when it was necessary at the time. For example, when the PSD2 payment directive was implemented, I tabled several amendments to the implementing law to better protect consumers. Everyone understood that at the time, but the directive simply did not allow it. Now the EU directive does not seem to permit storage wallets or similar, but it seems to be a disguised licensing system. If we deal with European directives in this way, which I find encouraging in itself, then what is the consequence of future European directives in the field of this Minister, I ask him. How's he gonna prevent randomness? As I have said, I think it is right that we should be able to deviate from European directives if we feel that this is necessary, but we should not be allowed to be arbitrary. Mr. Chairman. Then about the privacy aspects of the law. Once again, the aim of fighting crime and fraud is clear; I agree with that. But aren't we gonna go through with that? Because cash is anonymous. If I want to, I can shop with cash. No one needs to know and can know exactly what I bought. In 99.9% of the population, that is not interesting at all, because most people are not criminals and most people are not terrorists. With internet banking or pins, the anonymity, which you had with cash, is no longer possible. This seems to be happening in digital services, such as bitcoin and the like, because they are also brought under that kind of rules. The Minister has indicated that he does want to ban payments above €3,000 in cash, but cash payments Read anonymous payments below €3,000 remain possible. The idea behind it seems that up to a certain amount you should be able to pay anonymously, because the risk is small, and then not anymore. Then the risk of money laundering, crime and terrorist financing becomes high and you no longer have that right. But that thought was not implemented in the digital. Isn't it time to put that thought into practice? Has it been considered to ensure, or even to lay down in the law, a certain maximum anonymity in the case of digital transactions? That was a possibility with the bitcoin and that is now no longer possible. The Dutch Data Protection Authority is keen on the privacy of people in this law, and talks about "mass surveillance," mass surveillance. The Minister's reaction is almost condescending. He said in a response: "There are no other procedures that call into question the legality of the amendment to the Fourth Anti-Money Laundering Directive. I am not aware that supervisors in other Member States have expressed similar concerns to those of the Personal Data Authority." So the Minister seems to say: what are we talking about? He seems to look down on the opinion of the Personal Data Authority. What does the Minister mean by his reaction? Is he questioning the authority of the Personal Data Authority because he has not heard anyone else express concerns in Brussels? If not, why is he dealing with our Personal Data Authority in such a way? What is the Cabinet going to do to do justice to this harsh judgment of the Dutch Data Protection Authority? Or does the Minister put the whole thing aside? Mr. Chairman. Finally, on this law: the innovation aspects, i.e. the renewal aspects. Let us be clear: this is not a poor policy implementation of an EU directive. It means quite a lot for digital financial companies, the providers of virtual currency services who are trying to compete with large commercial banks. Does the Cabinet take into account that the new rules and laws do not consolidate and confirm the oligopoly position of commercial banks in digital payments? Indeed, bitcoin companies need to know their customers better in accordance with the law to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing, and investigate and report suspicious transactions. I agree with that, and they will agree with that. But how proportional are the demands in this law? Can the Minister exclude that as a result only large companies such as Facebook and Google and established commercial banks will be able to comply with it? A fintech company calculated that compliance costs could increase fivefold compared to the current situation. Does the Minister recognize this and if so, what does he think? Mr. Chairman. Monitoring transactions is a difficult task. It's of public interest, as I said. In the Netherlands, almost 8,000 people at banks are already working on this task. It's still not going well; that's also what the top guy of the Rabobank recently indicated. He actually blamed the minister and the government for doing too little. So even the banks demand more commitment from this minister. How does he respond to that call? The five largest banks are working on a joint organisation to jointly monitor suspicious transactions. That seems to me to be a good step in principle. Is the Minister prepared to discuss with them how the government can play a greater role in this? How can this organisation, which is of public interest, remain open to the rest of the sector and not just to those organisations that are now thinking about it? So I am also talking about smaller companies, which, for example, contribute a percentage of their turnover. If it is of public interest that these controls are carried out properly, then of course such an organisation must also be accessible to other companies. That was my input on the implementation law. I only have one simple question about the Wet referencing Portal banking data. In principle, it is a good thing that it is going to happen, but the costs of development and commissioning are about EUR 9.1 million and then the annual costs are added. These are estimated at 2.1 million euros. My question is: what exactly is its coverage? Are the banks gonna take the fall for this? For example, will the cabinet increase the banking tax as a result of this law? If the opposition here continues something that costs money, we must always provide cover. Now it is not there and the budget law is ours, so I ask the cabinet how it will cover the costs of this referral portal. Finally, Mr President, on the UBO register. As has been said, the SP Group sees excesses in the financial system, such as tax avoidance, financial fraud, white-collar crime, as one of the biggest problems in our economy. We support measures that help to combat this. The UBO register is also included, especially when it comes to tax avoidance. My group sees the usefulness of registering the owner or other influential individuals within companies and other organisations, because evildoers have an interest in maintaining the current maze, so that they can hide who is really reaping the benefits of our economy. At the same time, I also see many shortcomings in the UBO register. Some of these shortcomings can be solved. I'll ask you a few questions about that. But other of these shortcomings seem inherent in the UBO register and that is why we should not think that we are all there after its implementation. Additional measures will continue to be needed to shed more light on the shadowy world of financial fraud. For example, a major deficiency is that companies should only place natural persons with a 25% interest or more in the UBO register. 25% or more: that is a fairly high limit. Many influential people within companies can therefore stay under the radar. In addition, the Tax Administration must ensure that they actually register themselves. But he already has enough problems; we are going to talk about this later this week. The Tax Administration has therefore indicated that it is not able to perform these supervisory tasks properly. There is no other form of enforcement. Those people have to give themselves up, but the organisation that has to supervise that they are actually going to do so has already indicated: I can't really control it properly. For example, there is no obligation for tax advisers to check whether their client's UBOs are properly registered. How does the cabinet view this? Shouldn't the 25% limit be lowered, perhaps over time? Should enforcement be improved by making other organisations responsible, for example by imposing a duty on tax advisers? There also appear to be exceptions to legal forms, which will be chosen more often because of the UBO register. Can the Minister, for example, give a ruling on the question 'I believe that the VVD also raised the question of whether a 100% subsidiary owned by another subsidiary of an exceptional public limited company is still excluded?' Then where do you draw the line? If we do not draw a line, will it not still be a maze of all kinds of legal forms which are in some way excluded from compulsory registration in the UBO register? In short, without proper enforcement, the UBO register not only threatens to become a well-intentioned measure with shortcomings, but it even becomes a sore nose, in which the benevolent give themselves up and the malicious are never registered because there is hardly any control. How's the cabinet gonna prevent this? My party colleague Mrs Leijten has already tabled a motion together with a number of other parties in 2018. That motion has been adopted and is asking for it to be made impossible for employees of trust offices to be placed in the UBO register as some sort of puppet. Can the Minister confirm that this law is now impossible? Has that motion been carried out? Finally, my group has questions about the accessibility of information in the UBO register. In that I actually deviate a bit from the previous parties. Why does the cabinet choose to ask for an amount for access to the UBO register, while in other countries, such as Denmark, Slovakia and the United Kingdom, a free UBO register has been chosen? These countries are covered by the same European privacy legislation. If they can do it, why can't we? The search for names of persons will not be possible, making it unnecessarily difficult to investigate persons who may commit fraud. Is the cabinet prepared to make it possible for the UBO register to also search by name and not only by organisation? Mr. Chairman. As you will hear, I still have many questions about the UBO register, but also if all the concerns and questions are answered, the register will most likely not be enough to tackle financial fraud, tax fraud and crime in this area. That is why other measures are still needed to tackle white-collar criminals, such as the Central Shareholders' Register, which we will be discussing later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u28	Thank you. Then Mr Snels from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u29	Mr. Chairman. The advantage of long speaking time is that I can more easily agree with many of the points that have already been made, so my speaking time is reduced. Of course, my group supports the approach to money laundering, so that legislation is in place. I am about to make some points about the precise legislation, but I will start with a general point. My general point has to do with a book I read a year ago: Moneyland by Oliver Bullough. That really is a terrifying book about how criminals from Russia, former Soviet republics and other dubious states eventually bring criminal money to financial centres in Western Europe, especially to London and Amsterdam. And then what happens? This is not only money laundering, but at the same time tax avoidance. Then half the city centre in London is bought up, the housing market is ruined and tax evasion is repeated. That book really gives a picture of how criminal organisations from other countries around Europe work and engage in criminal activities here. One important point in that book is that there really is a huge overlap between money laundering and tax avoidance. What always strikes me in the debate we have is that it seems to be two separate worlds in Europe. On the one hand, we are trying to ensure that the Minister is also committed to tackling money laundering as much as possible at European level, we are trying to harmonise legislation as much as possible and we are trying to regulate supervision at European level, which is still a struggle. But when it comes to tax avoidance, it is said: well, it must remain national. The exact handling of letterbox companies is something we would rather manage entirely ourselves than make ourselves dependent on Europe. For example, there seem to be political and policy-separated worlds between tackling tax avoidance and tackling money laundering. I think that's actually unfortunate. I would like to ask the Minister whether there could at least be an investigation into the extent of this overlap between money laundering flows and capital flows where tax avoidance takes place. Of course there are also separate worlds behind it, but I think there is also a very big overlap in it. If the Minister considers it so important that we harmonise the approach to money laundering, then that should also apply to the approach to tax avoidance and especially to tax avoidance that goes through letterbox companies. Then it is still the case that we in the Netherlands decide ourselves that a small office plant, a desk and a ton of salary are sufficient for us to talk, as the VVD always says, about real economic activities that are important for our climate of establishment, while other European countries look at them in a different way. I'd like a reaction to that. Mr President, I believe that the ambiguity of the VVD is being discussed in the back room, but I see your gestures that I must continue. Mr. Chairman. The following general point has already been made by a number of people. So you can't open up the newspaper or there are pieces in it about the importance of tackling money laundering. As Mr Van der Linde said, you will indeed see: it is very important that we do so, but not for me. You can see that, but you sometimes see a single CEO who complains a bit about the big investments that big banks have to make and the amount of staff they have to take on. And at the same time they also wonder if it is effective. Let me say first of all that I have no patience with bankers who look at the laws and regulations in this way. I think it is really important that they just do what the legislator asks. And it is also European legislation. At the same time, of course, it is really an issue. This applies both to these banks themselves and to the approach taken by the government, the FIU. How effective are we? The question of effectiveness is therefore close to the question of efficiency. I hope the Minister can say a little more about the discussion with the banks, but can we not make it more effective and targeted? After all, we are all concerned not only with the very large fishing net with all the customer research and all the unusual transactions, but also with the question of whether we can distinguish between lower risk groups and those with a slightly higher risk using technology. It may require legislation, but can we not be more focused on looking for the real criminals? In my view, this is an issue for both the banks and the public authorities. For example, if you see in the report that 700,000 transactions were reported in 2018 and that this ultimately leads to the conclusion in 0.7% of the cases that it is a suspicious transaction that justifies that investigation, then that difference is very large. How are we going to make that more effective? Mr. Chairman. Let me make some specific comments on the legislation. I can agree with what Mr Alkaya said about proportionality in those cryptocurrencies, but I actually do so with a slightly different angle. I see that there are now a lot of demands on this new technology and those cryptocurrencies, and I think we all see that there are huge risks of criminal money behind that. But one problem is also that you have to distinguish between two different cryptocurrencies, namely those where the storage wallets are traceable to underlying information and those where they are not, the non-customial wallets. The result is a waterbed effect. Of course, the real criminals are not going to be in those cryptocurrencies that are now regulated. They go like hell to cryptocurrencies that are not covered by the laws and regulations. Does the Minister see that waterbed effect and what does it ultimately mean for efficiency and effectiveness? It is an important subject, because of course it is a way to keep black and criminal money out of sight. On the following point, I can agree with Mr Van der Linde and I think that Mr Ronnes is right, and that is the role of the gatekeepers, if they are persons: the notaries, the brokers and the advisers. If reports are made and they lead to a criminal investigation, they are no longer anonymous. We have received signals that there may be threats. Isn't it possible to have them anonymous? How can we make sure we can protect those people? I think that is an important point. Then there's the UBO register. There I can join in part with Mr Alkaya. I think it is important that the UBO register is there and at the same time there are a number of concerns. We know that the final stakeholders from outside the European Union remain out of the picture. Is there any discussion in Europe about how we can get a better picture of them? And why the 25% limit? You put five criminals together, they make a mutual agreement that they take all five 20% and they don't need to be registered in the UBO register anymore. It's a lot easier than a letterbox company or whatever it is. You just do that to each other and you don't have to register. 25% is, of course, completely arbitrary. Why not 10%? You'll need 11 people to make such an appointment. I'd like a response. I can also join Mr Ronnes again. He made the point that the total register is not visible to the banks, our gatekeepers. The Minister has already indicated that there will be another opinion from the Dutch Data Protection Authority. I think it might have added value to make that clear to our gatekeepers. The question is when we can expect the opinion of the Personal Data Authority. Finally, a question about the Banking Data Link Portal. What strikes me in the end is that the tax authorities are expected to submit 700,000 to 900,000 additional requests for information in the portal. That's a lot. Why is that so much? I can't place that amount. And what does that ultimately mean for the IRS? Because all these applications have to be made and a supervisor has to ask permission to do so. That seems like an incredible job for the IRS. How does the Minister view that? Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You see, I had three seconds left.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u30	Well done. Nice timing. Then Mr Bruins of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u31	Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about three laws in the fight against money laundering, fraud and tax avoidance. In the coalition agreement, strong ambitions were agreed in this fight against white-collar crime. Can the Minister make it clear where we stand in this fight and what is still in the pipeline for the coming year or year and a half? First of all, the implementation of the Fourth Anti-Money Laundering Directive. Virtual currency will also be included. Mr Van der Linde, Mr Ronnes, Mr Alkaya and Mr Snels also spoke about this. The question is whether the costs, responsibilities and obligations can still be borne, especially for small suppliers. I'd like a reflection from the Minister on this. In the Banking Data Reference Portal Act, I read in the note following the report that an employee can be authorised within an authority to question the referral portal from multiple legal powers, but that there can be no question of him subsequently combining the information obtained. What exactly does the Minister mean by "there can be no such thing." Does he mean that this will be technically excluded or does he mean that the employee may not: that he can technically do it, but that he would break the law? And what does that mean in practice for the guarantee of the GDPR? Mr. Chairman. Then there is the implementation of the UBO Directive. This bill will lead to the UBOs of almost all legal entities being publicly registered, behind a payment wall and after registration, but the silent partner, "daughter of," who simply lives in a terraced house and brings her children to school every day on a bike, is worried. Many family businesses have seen with great care how Brussels continued its obligation to make all UBOs public to everyone, thereby cutting off the German model, whereby only competent authorities and persons for a legitimate reason could see the system. Are the effectiveness of the measures and the right to privacy still in balance when implementing this directive? If the German model is definitely no longer possible, I ask the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Since I suspect that the answer to that question will be affirmative, I have tabled an amendment together with Mr Van der Linde and Mr Ronnes, which introduces additional safeguards into the UBO register and increases the security and privacy of UBOs. This amendment provides for the UBO to be informed on request of the number of times its data has been provided. According to the Minister, giving information about who they were provided to is contrary to the GDPR. But is the Minister prepared to set up the system in such a way as to give the UBO an insight into how often his data has been provided by category? By categories, for example, I mean competent authorities, the two categories of Wwft institutions and others, third parties. In substance, I have the following questions. The UBO register only leads to registration of entities established in the Netherlands. Mr Ronnes mentioned that as well. It does not lead to the registration of entities established outside the EU and subsequently relocated to the Netherlands. I think that's loophole number right there. 1. Can the law be extended to all entities established in the Netherlands? Moreover, the law could work more effectively and, above all, more efficiently if gatekeepers, such as banks, had access to additional data, but I understand that, if we allow this, trust offices, brokers and tax advisors would also have that right, because, according to the Wwft, they belong to the same category. In view of the register, is there no distinction to be made, I would ask the Minister, between institutions that always have to conduct customer research and are supervised by DNB and others, as with the categories I mentioned before? I read that an opinion from the Dutch Data Protection Authority is also awaited. In this request for an opinion is also the option to divide the categories, I ask the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Have I understood correctly the replies in the note to the report in the sense that the bsn number and address can only be seen for the FIU and the competent authorities? Can I get that confirmed again? Or does that still depend on the opinion of the Personal Data Authority? Can we be certain about this before we agree to the law? The note following the report also states that the Chamber of Commerce "will provide only UBO data on the basis of one-to-one inquiries'. I'm worried about that word "mostly." Can the Minister guarantee that this will remain the same without any legislative change? I don't want the UBO registry to become a marketing tool that's being resold by shady traders. Mr. Chairman. The Dutch register will be linked to a European central platform one year after its launch. I think that's asking for trouble. Can the Minister guarantee that that European platform will have the same safety requirements, registration obligation and limited data inspection as the Dutch system? I do not want us to implement a directive with maximum national options here first and that those national options are watered down because the systems are linked. How does the Minister see this? How do we check in due course whether a competent authority, let us say, does Bulgaria indeed have the same competence and authority that we are referring to here when dealing with this Dutch law? Mr. Chairman. Then underage UBOs. They shall be protected upon request. I am concerned that this can only be done on request. That's why I want to know what happens once a minor inherits and becomes UBO. Could it be that, in such a case, by a signal from an institution that may be a notary or a bank.... the minor is visibly registered as UBO without his or the responsible parent or guardian being aware of it? I'd like an answer. Then I have a second question. What if the underage is celebrating his 18th birthday? Will he first receive a notification from the Chamber of Commerce that his UBO status will be visible before that happens automatically? How can he make a legitimate request for protection before his 18th birthday, as long as he is underage and therefore not a sign holder? Is that even possible? Mr. Chairman. Finally, anbi's and church societies. Registration shall include the grounds for registration and the nature of the economic interest. For example, it is made clear to anbis that this is not a UBO but a pseudo-UBO, the Minister argues. But it is not clear to me what exactly is going to be on the ground for registration when it comes to the driver of an anbi. What exactly is the text in that situation going to be? Is a separate flag in the system that it concerns an entity that does not have UBO, not a much clearer and much easier solution? Church societies do not fall within the scope of this law. However, in the context of this law, I think it would be wise to know which church societies in the Netherlands remain outside the UBO register because they are not a legal entity through a foundation or association. However, they are registered in the trade register of the Chamber of Commerce. Does the minister have an overview of the church societies that matter and how many of them are there? Would it be helpful to ask the Chamber of Commerce to publish annually a list of new churches that have arisen, but which are not included in the UBO register because they are not otherwise a legal entity? That's it, Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u32	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Nijboer of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, the sparks aren't quite flying off this debate yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u34	But that's what we hired you for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u35	I'm available, Mr. Chairman. It is not for me to qualify all the input, but it is quite an essential discussion, and if you listen carefully, you will hear criticism from left to right of the UBO register, for example. The SP says it might be a wash nose. The CDA, the VVD but also the CU just asked a whole list of privacy and risk questions: should this be the case? A little against remembrance and joy seems to everyone to agree to this, because we have agreed to the European Union. I would just like to mention that, all the more so because a proposal for a central shareholder register has already been made in 2010. Then Minister Opstelten said: I think that is a good idea; let us introduce it, I will take it from here. There has been an initiative paper and it has been said: yes, we are going to introduce it as a cabinet. A few more years later: nothing happened; initiative law made by the SP and the Labour Party for a central shareholder register, in which many of the problems mentioned have been addressed. I would therefore also like to ask the Minister in this debate what is so much better about the final register of stakeholders compared to the bill submitted by the SP and the PvdA. I would like to highlight three points in particular. Mr President, there is someone on the interrupting microphone, but you will give me the opportunity to clarify these three points first. First of all, you have to report it to the final register of interested parties yourself. So we ask all potential criminals: go to that Chamber of Commerce yourself and report as a shareholder. I think that is a risk to the effectiveness of a system. The Chamber of Commerce must then maintain and pass on all this, but I do not think that is very convenient. In the central shareholder register, each transaction must be recorded by the notary. Then you own it, and you just have to record it. He's been assigned to that, too. That seems to me to be a much better way of recording property and tracing it. The second difference, and GroenLinks also mentioned this: a limit is set at 25%. Why not just register all the interests? Then it's clear. It is really not such an art not to mention it as evil and/or to take a very small share that hangs you in all kinds of structures. That's not such a point. Mr. Chairman. A third difference is that you can see the central shareholder register throughout the chain. Because we know the constructions that are used, also from the Panama Papers. Then you can spend a whole day in the paperwork trying to figure out how these corporate structures work. Well, then it's useful to know all that. If one of these is less than 25%, or is a mother and a daughter holding company, you've already lost it. In short, I think that our proposal for a directive is also a disadvantage, because it is not European, and the proposal before us is being exchanged at European level; I am giving it quite well thought-out immediately. That was also well debated by the Chamber in the first term. So there are still real comments to be made and it could all be better, but if I let our proposal pass the same test of criticism as this bill, then I find this a less good proposal. That does not mean that the PvdA wants to vote against this right away, but I do think that the Cabinet should make it plausible that this bill really does make much more sense and works much better to deal with money laundering than our bill. So that's what I'm asking the Minister to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u36	I have a bit of a problem with the idea that this is just coming from Brussels and that is the only reason why we have to carry it out. Which country, which Member State, has most strongly advocated a publicly accessible register in Brussels?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u37	Probably the Netherlands. I'm not against Brussels at all, am I? But there are colleagues who have cited it as an argument. I've got them straightened out. For privacy, the right is much more scared; I am less afraid of that. The SP was afraid of the wash nose. So I just outlined the criticism of this bill from left to right. And Brussels was one of the critical points. The PVV does not participate in the debate, but I do not think that they would be so pleased to see it coming from Europe. I can dream it a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u38	My point is another. In 2014, GroenLinks tabled a motion, supported by the Labour Party, calling on the government to actively promote in Brussels a UBO register that would be accessible to all. The PVV voted against, the VVD voted against, but everyone else agreed. We've all wanted this, apparently. We don't, but you as a PvdA do. You have actively advocated this, you have voted for it here. Then I find it a little easy to say: yes, that comes from Brussels, so we are not happy with it. On the other hand, in the debate on that central register, I invited you to put these legislative proposals together here in this debate. So I would have expected a series of amendments from you in order to do that now. But I don't see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u39	Well, that last accusation is ridiculous to me. We have made an initiative paper, which the cabinet has announced to take over, but it has not. So, in order to amend a very complicated proposal after parliamentary work, there is no doing, and Mr Van der Linde knows that; certainly not in a month's time. So I think that's a ridiculous accusation. Then there is the point that has been settled at European level. I referred to that as a disadvantage of our own proposal. I believe that the advantage of this proposal is that it is regulated at European level. You know the PvdA, too. I don't think that's an argument at all to be against something here. On the contrary, I think it is right to take a European approach. But whether it is invested with the notary or with the Chamber of Commerce, I find a substantial difference. Whether you set the percentage to 25% or 0% is a substantial difference. I would also have liked this law much better if it had been set at 0%, had not been voluntarily notified and had been invested with the notary. This can also be done in a final register of interested parties. It is about substantive considerations and not about the fact that it is European.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u40	No, I understand all this criticism, but this is what I am concerned about. You've put a lot of work into the central shareholder register. You've got all these things lined up. You know exactly what you want to change. So come forward with amendments. Then get it done. Make sure they're all ready here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u41	There's a whole bill waiting for you. It's all set up. It's just ready. You can just vote in favour of that. It is more than just a few amendments. If the VVD promises 'if you table those amendments, we go from 25% to 0% and from the Chamber of Commerce to the notary', then I will make sure that they are in front of the votes. But I'm not gonna dismantle a bill, table amendments, all of which get tuned, do triple work, and eventually don't pull anything in. I'm not gonna do that. But if Mr Van der Linde is prepared to do so, then tomorrow, after the child care allowance debate, Mr Alkaya and I will do so with your permission.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u42	I do not want to undermine Mr Nijboer's commitment to the central shareholder register, but he himself points out that a European approach will ultimately make us stronger together. So I don't think the solution you're suggesting is appropriate. Do you not agree with me that we need to build on this directive and ensure that we do not get out of line with the solutions we come up with with our neighbouring countries? If we do that, these measures will lack their effectiveness.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u43	No, but I am in favour of the European approach. We have voted in favour of the motion that Mr Van der Linde has just put forward. I'm just in favour of that. We all want something that works. It's a question of what you've achieved if you let people report themselves, if you keep that percentage low and if you can't see through those e.g. structures. Then you have something European that may not be very effective. I'd say that's a shame. Point two. I never think that if you do something European, you should leave something national. I didn't find that in the bank buffers. You're aware of that. I also thought that the Netherlands should lead the way. That's what I think here, too. We're a financial turntable in the world. The number of trust offices is immense. I therefore believe that there is a great deal to be said for national legislation in this area too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u44	Rounding off, short.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u45	But I do think it should remain workable. If you are all going to create your own solution alongside a European solution, then you will see that the overhead is also growing enormously. Surely you agree with me that we should also ensure that it remains workable and affordable?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u46	Certainly, but registering with the notary instead of the Chamber of Commerce is quite a fundamental choice, but it really does not make it unworkable and much more objective. The same applies to non-registration. This is a very substantial difference from the way in which the UBO is now being introduced into the Netherlands, but I think that it can be done very well at European level. Why does it have to be the Chamber of Commerce? They didn't arrange it this way in all countries, did they? Why can't it be with a notary? That is a real difference, just like that percentage.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u47	You're continuing. You're moving on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u48	That's right, Mr. Chairman. I'm coming to the gatekeeper function. Banks are crazy. More than that, they've been beaten upside down, because they've broken the law considerably. And now they're saying, man, man, man, what a lot of work is that to get our organization in order. They begin to complain, so of "we perform a public task." I'm gonna distance myself from that. From a car dealer who buys and sells a car, we expect it to be not a fence and that he knows that thing is a bit reliable. I expect a bank that manages people's money and assets, that it knows, especially at registration, where that money comes from, that it is reliable and who owns it. That's all we're asking. Those banks, or at least a number of banks, haven't put their system in order for years. So that's what they need to put right now. That is a lot of work, but I think it is very reasonable that we should ask banks to do so. There is now a huge discussion going on about whether the government is not all redeploying public tasks to the banks, as if we... I just don't agree with that at all. Those banks have forsaken enormously, and they have to put their trade in order. They will need to know for a long time who their customers are and where the money comes from. Otherwise, our financial system will not function. It's different with trust offices. Then I think it's really crazy to give a trust office that trust. The Minister knows that, too. I just want to get rid of those trust offices. The legislation will then have to be tightened up, but it is a matter of urgency to ensure that it survives. But at banks, I really think it makes sense to ask them to do that. I think banks have a point about tracking. I'm sure you're surprised, but I think banks have a point somewhere. The detection of both the FIOD and the Public Prosecutor's Office, which are currently behind the banks, is very limited. But I hope those hundreds of people at the banks will find something. They haven't been in order for years, so there's a good chance of suspicious cases coming forward. Hundreds, thousands of billions go through the Netherlands, so that's where things come out. The question then is whether the government responds to this. Is there any maintenance? Does the FIOD have enough people? There are plenty of problems with the Tax Office. I think the banks have a point there. I also believe that politics can be expected to provide sufficient investment and human resources. I do not think that is sufficiently in order at the moment. Mr. Chairman. I come to the third point. Banks would like to exchange data with each other. I think that's legitimate, too. Suppose you join the ABN and he says: this is half a criminal; we don't want it as a customer. If the ABN cannot then say that to ING, then the ING must hope that it will find out. So I think it is legitimate, but I also call for attention to be paid to privacy protection and to the extent to which this can be done. Because we can't have it that if you open an account with a bank, your data is on the street, with all the commercial parties in the country. There's little attention to that. I ask the Minister to respond to that. Finally, Mr President, three points relating to currency. In the first few months as a Member of Parliament, I have made a strong effort to abolish the 500 euro banknote. The ECB is now really working on this. The Minister is also committed to this. I'm also in favour of bringing down that cash payment. The Minister proposes a limit of €3,000. That seems to me to be a good proposal. Traders are quite opposed to it, but I simply think it is very workable and also desirable that we do not go down the street with fat bags of money. This leads to money laundering and, by the way, to tax avoidance such as VAT avoidance. It's easier not to put a table on the account if you don't manage digitally and pay cash. Finally, in this last section I deal with ATMs in mainly Amsterdam, but also in other places, where I have very little confidence. You pay all blue to pin there. The question is, where did that money come from? So I wonder whether we should continue to allow these commercial ATMs. I'm not talking about the banks' vending machines, I'm talking about the other vending machines. They're just weird machines. Or tourists are being scammed, we don't usually worry about that, but that's actually not very nice either, or it's just used for wrong practices. Then we have to get rid of it. So I'm asking the Minister how he looks at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u49	Thank you. Mr Groothuizen of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to start with a few general points and observations on money laundering. I shall then turn to the bill on the UBO register. Then I come to the Implementation Act amending the Fourth Anti-Money Laundering Directive. Finally, I am talking about the legislative proposal relating to the Banking Data Reference Portal. Mr. Chairman. The D66 Group supports the importance of combating money laundering. Bringing large amounts of wrong money into the legal economy has a corrupting effect on our society. If you want to enjoy your money undisturbed as a drug criminal, corrupt politician or shady businessman, you have to launder it first. In essence, that's nothing but pretending your bad money has a legal origin, so you fake a non-existent turnover or lock your money away to a distant destination to buy that luxury villa in southern France via a Christmas tree to companies. Money laundering is therefore crucial for the maintenance of crime and corruption. It is therefore a good thing that we are taking action to combat it. You will understand from this introduction that the D66 Group is in principle in favour of the legislative proposals we are debating today. Nevertheless, I also have a number of comments and a number of questions for the Minister of Finance. Mr. Chairman. Money laundering requires that wrong money is inserted into the legitimate system. Banks, notaries, accountants, brokers and other service providers play a crucial role in this legitimate system. As far as I am concerned, it is understandable that anti-money laundering legislation plays an important role for service providers as gatekeepers, but we do see a number of problems. Colleagues have already spoken about this. One is the risk of overreporting. Already we see that banks, notaries and other gatekeepers are reporting increasingly to the FIU. The number of unusual transactions increased from 361,000 in 2017 to as much as 753,000 a year later, in 2018. The question is whether this is a desirable development. After all, we do not want more reports, but we want good reports. If gatekeepers are going to report purely because they are afraid that they will otherwise be tapped on their fingers by a supervisor or criminally attacked by the prosecution, which, of course, is justified if they break the rules, we organise our own disappointment in this way. After all, the haystack in which we are looking for a pin is getting bigger and bigger. Mr. Chairman. A culture of overcompliance is just as problematic as a culture of non-compliance. It leads to bureaucracy, additional costs and economic damage. The legislative proposals we are discussing today have in common that the scope of reporting is extended further. In short, the haystack is getting bigger. I would therefore like to hear from the Minister of Finance whether he sees this problem and, if so, how he intends to prevent it. How do we keep our system effective? Mr. Chairman. Banks are commercial institutions and they will therefore try to organise their gatekeeper function cheaply. The labour market is currently tight. Therefore, as I understand it, especially young, relatively cheap people are attracted to check all those clients. But is that the best way to track sharked criminals and sly money launderers? I believe that at the banks 5,000 people I heard Mr Van der Linde say that there are even 6,000 people engaged in client investigations. But does that really help? My question to the cabinet is therefore how successful the gatekeeper system is and how we determine whether that system is successful. Mr. Chairman. The Court pointed out to the Justice Budget that it is still unclear what risks to money laundering should be addressed and what contribution the organisations concerned should make. That is why I ask the Minister of Finance whether he is prepared to accept the recommendations of the Court of Auditors and, as far as I am concerned, in the next budget, that is to include that information in the budget of both Finance and Justice. This way, as a room, we can check what we're doing and what results we're achieving. Mr. Chairman. A recurring point of discussion is the cooperation between banks, supervisors and investigation services. That collaboration raises questions about privacy protection and the risk of sharing search information. There is also the possibility that a gatekeeper suddenly becomes a suspect. ING and ABN AMRO are recent examples of this. I understand from a letter that there is now a pilot Serious Crime Task Force, in which police data is shared with the banks. My question to the Minister for Finance is whether the cabinet intends to extend it. If that is the case, how does the Minister look at the fact that these investigation services are exchanging information with banks, but perhaps at another time they should act against a bank, because that bank has committed a criminal offence? I would like a response from the Justice Minister on that point. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is a financial hub of global importance. Mr Nijboer pointed that out. A large part of global money flows goes through the Netherlands. This also means that the Netherlands is vulnerable to error or naughty money, whether it is cocaine dollars from Colombian narcos, dubious petrodollars from the Middle East or money from a corrupt figure from the former Soviet Union. Italian anti-Mafia activist Roberto Saviano even called our entire system corrupt. That may have been a very wild statement, but one that raises questions. I'll ask those questions to the Minister of Finance. Should we actually continue with a financial system where money flows smoothly through our country, without knowing exactly where it comes from or, often, where it goes? If the answer is yes, do we not automatically accept that the Netherlands will continue to play an important role in the laundering of error or bad money? I'd like to hear from the Minister of Finance how he looks at this. I would also like him to address the role of this financial system in our economy. In other words, are we really making so much money here as a country, or is it really not that bad in the end? Mr. Chairman. I am now focusing on the UBO register. D66 is in favour of that bill. A register of final stakeholders can contribute to combating money laundering. It constitutes an additional threshold and can assist investigation services in their work. The idea of setting up such a register can also count on the support of authoritative organisations, such as the Financial Action Task Force and Transparency International. But we shouldn't be naive. Other speakers have also referred to this. Of course, people who want to hide the fact that they have money or possession will try to play under those rules. In that respect, there will be an eternal battle between crooks and bad guys. Mr. Chairman. I have a few more questions about this bill. The government has chosen not to make the additional information that can be registered publicly accessible. From the point of view of protecting privacy, my group agrees. The screen option can also contribute to protecting privacy. In the note following the report, the government writes that it wants to take two measures to further improve the privacy of entrepreneurs. Firstly, the government wants to increase the reliability of the counsellor's identification. Secondly, the government wants UBO ultimately to understand how often "by whom" is not "by whom," so I understand that information is being consulted. However, my question is what effect such measures have on the effectiveness of the register. 'Cause that's what we're doing eventually. I'd like an explanation. Mr. Chairman. Then I have a second question. In maintaining the UBO register, there is a task for the Office of Economic Enforcement of Tax Administration and possibly, if it really goes wrong, for the Public Prosecutor's Office. But nowhere in the documents do I read how many people and resources are allocated by the cabinet to this enforcement. Around 1.5 million companies will have to register their UBO information immediately, so this enforcement can be a major task. I therefore ask the Minister of Justice to indicate how much extra money and capacity is being allocated to this enforcement. If the answer is "no, we do that from the existing capacity," I'd like to hear it, too, with an estimate of how realistic that is. Mr. Chairman. Questions have been asked by various political groups, including mine, about the risk that the Chamber of Commerce or third parties will use the data commercially in the UBO register. I would like to summarize the Government's response as: that is obviously not the intention. Well, I'm willing to accept that, but that's not a great comfort. After all, money laundering is not the intention, but that does not mean that it does not happen. Can the Minister of Finance explain how he intends to curb that risk of commercial exploitation of information and how action is being taken if it does? Mr. Chairman. Then there is my final question about the UBO register. Mr Nijboer has already spoken about this. There is an initiative law on a central shareholders' register that has interfaces. I would certainly not say that it is the same, but there are interfaces with the UBO register. I believe that the latest state of affairs is that the cabinet and the initiators would talk to each other. My question is how it stands. How does the cabinet view the relationship between the two registers? Mr. Chairman. Then the Implementation Act amends fourth anti-money laundering directive. First of all, I agree with the SP's question on the relationship between licence and registration. I noticed that, too. The D66 Group also welcomes the government's commitment in Europe to genuine European anti-money laundering supervision of banks and other financial institutions. That's good news. I should like to hear from the Minister of Finance what concrete steps the government is going to take and what results he is going to achieve at the forthcoming Ecofin meeting. I continue to read that the government sees the risk that crooked customers will use non-customial wallets more often. The government states that this will have to prove at some point if the customer is to switch to storage wallets or exchange platforms. Do I have to draw your attention, as my question to the Minister of Finance, to the fact that the government believes that this risk is ultimately negligible, or should we think about additional measures? I assume that transactions on the dark web do not stand out at all, and in that sense remain outside the scope of the investigation services. Is this true? I'd like an explanation. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the obligation for intermediaries to report rental contracts of €10,000 per month when renting out real estate. Is my question to the Minister that leases are simply below that amount, whether or not they are supplemented by a supplement paid outside the contract? In other words, classic avoidance behaviour. Mr. Chairman. The Dutch Data Protection Authority has raised a number of concerns regarding the processing or sharing of personal data. The government has dealt with this and has amended or clarified the law on a number of points. My group is satisfied with that. However, this remains a point of attention. I would therefore ask the government to make an explicit commitment to the protection of personal data when evaluating the directive. Mr President, the final point on this legislative proposal. The government proposes to amend Article 1f of the Wwft so that the obligation to carry out a national risk assessment every two years lapses. The government motivates this by saying that it remains possible to do this biennially or more often, but I wonder if this is actually going to happen. To be honest, I don't understand why we're removing that obligation right now. I believe that until now in the Netherlands there has only been one such risk assessment, and one for the Caribbean part of the Netherlands, I believe. In the light of all the discussion on money laundering, I would say that you want to regularly look at trends, what is going well and what is not going well. That is why I have tabled an amendment on that point. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the reference portal banking data. D66 understands the importance of rapid data transmission to investigative services and supervisors. Retrieving data may indeed take a while now. I know from my own experience. With the referral portal, the information is available within one minute. In a world where money can be moved quickly with a few mouse clicks, speed is absolutely a great thing. The legislative proposal does not change the existing data bases, but does change the way they are provided. But we also need to look closely at the protection of privacy in this form of provision. After all, it is information that gives a great deal of insight into a person's personal life. The system of linking instead of using a database that is filled with a bank's customer data, D66 can therefore understand and also approve. It is good that there are safeguards to prevent too many hits. It is also good that data in the referral portal should be deleted within five minutes. But with that, not all the worries have disappeared. The government recognizes that the system can lead to more searches. There is also no system of internal fitness. On the other hand, the government cannot really support the fact that the referral portal seeks targeted information or can achieve better results. In view of these open questions, which I think is the old point of the effectiveness of the system, it seems wise to evaluate the system properly at some point. But on that very point, I find the government rather vague. I read in the answers to written questions that there will be an audit and that there will be regular consultations between the Minister of Justice and the users of the portal. My question to the Minister for Finance is: is it not really wise to just thoroughly evaluate the system after a number of years? After all, we want to know whether it really helps to combat money laundering and whether the guarantees are being properly respected. I'd like a response from the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u51	The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Stoffer of the Political Reformed Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u52	Mr. Chairman. Legislative proposals to combat money laundering in an efficient manner should be introduced as soon as possible. Money laundering is a criminal offence and harms the financial sector. In addition, it simply costs society a huge amount of money. Research shows that some EUR 16 billion is laundered every year, EUR 16 billion! That is just a huge amount of money that many beautiful things in our society can be done with. In short, money laundering must simply be combated. Legislation on this subject is also a balance between privacy and security. The question is how much privacy we have to turn in to counter money laundering. One of the three legislative proposals now before us goes rather far in terms of privacy for the SGP. Then I am talking about the Implementation Act registration, ultimately stakeholders, also called the UBO register. That UBO register has great implications for companies, for large companies but also for family businesses. Out of thousands of family businesses, all relevant data becomes public and concerns among these companies and SMEs are high. They also call it some kind of phone book for criminals. My question is whether these notions that I make in this way appear strange to the Minister. I hope he'll agree to that. Specifically, what is the Minister doing to remove the concerns of these entrepreneurs? Is the impact on the UBO register monitored and is it monitored? A number of entities do not have to comply with the registration obligation, such as associations without full legal capacity that do not run a company. The explanatory memorandum gives two reasons for the exception of this group. One: the entry in the trade register is already optional. Two: the fact that there is a low risk of money laundering or terrorist financing in these entities. An exception is also made for associations of owners and other legal persons governed by private law. That argument is clearly described in the explanatory statement and that argument ends with the sentence: there is reason to believe that these legal entities have a low risk of money laundering or financing terrorism. In my view, these exceptions are entirely justified and the scope of the directive allows this. My question to the Minister is whether the fact that the low risk in these entities has played a role in the exceptions that have been made, as the Council of State also points out in the opinion. Mr. Chairman. A major objection to the SGP lies with the public utility institutions, the anbi's. For them the consequences are great and the usefulness is doubtful. For some anbis, the risk of money laundering and terrorist financing is just low. This may be the case, for example, in small institutions or in institutions which receive virtually no money from abroad. Fortunately, the directive deals with this low risk several times. For example, a Member State or a obliged entity that identifies low risk areas may allow a obliged entity to apply simplified customer due diligence measures. In the application of this Directive, it is appropriate to take into account the core brands and needs of smaller obliged entities falling within the scope of this Directive and to ensure the treatment of those entities adapted to their specific needs and the nature of the business activity. The measures taken must also be proportionate to the risks involved. There seems to be room for exceptions under strict conditions. In fact, Article 2 (2) of the Directive already makes an exception for certain gambling services. My question to the Minister is: is it true that this exception is based on the low risk? As I said earlier, the Minister also uses this space that allows the directive to make exceptions for certain entities, partly on the basis of low risk of money laundering. Under conditions, therefore, the Directive also seems to allow for an exception for certain anbi's. As a SGP, we have tabled an amendment to that effect. This amendment provides that ultimately interested parties of anbis should not be subject to registration under strict conditions. Under strict conditions, because, of course, it cannot be the case that all kinds of anbi institutions suddenly appear, although it is not expected to be very high. Before an institution obtains anbi-status, it must meet several conditions. For example, it should serve at least 90% of the general interest and the institution should not be profit-making. So converting an entity into an anbi can't just happen. But the most important condition must be that the risk of money laundering and financing terrorism is low. I would very much like to hear the Minister's response to this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u53	A brief question from Mr Van der Linde.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u54	Yes, a very short question. Is a mosque an anbi, if it's a foundation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u55	It could be. In some cases it is, in some cases it isn't. A mosque is of course already part of the church societies. You yourself have tabled an amendment to that effect, which we look at a little differently from what you think of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u56	I understand very well that you have submitted the counterpart, but I am extremely afraid that, if we include these anbis in this way, I understand the problem of the anbis in general, every mosque is going to apply for an anbi status. Then it completely escapes our attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u57	Yes, but, of course, there is always something specific to look at when something would play there. I don't think you should be making things very difficult for a very large group because of a very small group. I think you can do something about that specifically.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u58	Fine. You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u59	I see that Mr Van der Linde does not entirely agree with me. Anyway, I'm sure we'll get back to that. Maybe the Minister will give a clear answer to that, because I am also asking for a response to my amendment. And he will probably do the same to Mr Van der Linde's amendment. Mr. Chairman. I have already said that money laundering must be stopped, and I think Mr Van der Linde and I agree very well, but the relationship between privacy and security must not be forgotten. According to the Minister, has privacy been adequately taken into account in the three legislative proposals, and more specifically in that bill on the UBO register? I'd like a response from the Minister. The UBO register should prevent money laundering. Then it is important that at least the current money launderers are in the register, but according to the tax administration's execution test, the register is very sensitive to fraud. I'd like to hear if the Minister shares that conclusion. Also in terms of enforcement of the register, the effect is limited, according to the same execution test of the Tax Administration. My question is whether the Minister can also deal with the problems mentioned in the Tax Administration's execution test with regard to enforcement. Mr President, I should like to leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u60	It's beautiful. At 9:30 p.m., we're gonna listen to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u61	Perfect on time. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u62	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the Members of your Chamber for the thoroughness with which this debate is flown. There has been a long talk, but much has also been brought forward. It's a subject that deserves it, too. Before I start the classification, I would like to make a number of general comments on the context in which we are holding this debate together. For many here and for many in the country, we have been crystal clear for a long time that there is a fundamental problem in the Netherlands with organised crime and therefore also with money laundering. For much longer, many have lost the naivety. We know that you should not be naive about the ramifications of crime, about the effort we have to make to reverse the tide and about how wide the problem of money laundering is. And yet it is fair to say that in this cabinet period, at least for me but probably also for some Members of your Chamber, the perspective has shifted even further in the wrong direction. There is a new report by a number of scientists that shows that with the report by Fijnaut on the zip code area 1012 many will know that too little has actually happened, if not that it has gotten worse. There is the situation at the banks, for many of us the wake-up call or the underlining of the big problem we have with regard to the gatekeeper function following the case at ING. There are reports on the extent of money laundering, which have recently shown once again how big the problem is. And, of course, there was this horrible murder of Derk Wiersum, someone who, as a lawyer, has committed himself to the rule of law. Without all these things, therefore, I would call them 'We might have had a little debate on the UBO after all. But we don't have that luxury. This problem is bigger, more persistent and more comprehensive than we would like. I am also saying this on behalf of the Minister of Justice: it is really the time for the rule of law. I am referring to this because we, as a society, are being called upon to take an integrated approach. It requires considerably more of all those involved: the police and justice, the FIOD, the FIU and the banks. I will say a lot more about this in a moment, but I very much agree with those who say that banks have their fair share to do in the field of gatekeeper function. It also requires more from the cabinet and from me as Minister of Finance when it comes to making money available for matters such as undermining and making money available to the Tax Administration, as we did with the Spring Note. But there is also the help to the banks. I very much appreciated what Mr Nijboer said in that connection. There's the gatekeeper function. We can really expect banks to fulfil it to the full. But there is also a question of help that I do not want to leave unanswered. That is a fair request from the banks. They need that help from the government. I also think that we should be approachable to that. Then there's the last introductory thing I'd like to say about it. It is tempting to bring up pieces from this debate, such as the €500 note, the €3,000 limit or the investments made by the cabinet against undermining, and to say: is that actually going to solve it? I think the reality is that even those things together will not solve the problem yet. We need to make sure that this stays on the agenda. We will have to move forward with great determination and perseverance. Mr. Chairman. I begin with the plan of action of Minister Grapperhaus and myself. That's the first part. The second is the implementation of the AMLD, the third the UBOs, the fourth the referral portal, the fifth "other" and the sixth the amendments. Mr. Chairman. Mr Ronnes and Mr Alkaya, and I also mean Snels, asked about the FIU. If it considers a transaction to be suspicious, how much capacity is there with the D.A. and the judiciary? I understand from my colleague, Mr Grapperhaus, that the public prosecutor has about 5,000 FTEs at his disposal. Of these, the so-called functional parquet, which includes the fight against money laundering at national level, has slightly more than 400 fte. Then I can mention all kinds of numbers with regard to the sitting magistrate, but it is important to mention here that we have made extra money available. If the FIU's capacity is inadequate and it turns out to be a bottleneck in this problem, then I agree with my introduction: then we simply have to solve that problem. Mr. Chairman. Mr Ronnes asked who was responsible for the implementation of the plan. Is that the Minister of Finance or the Justice Department? This is really a common approach. Some parts are of course very specific to me, others are very specific to JenV's colleague. There are other parts of society in institutions, such as banks. Let me add: the last thing I would like to do is to discuss how we keep our own territory as small as possible, which is sometimes found politically attractive, or how we expand it, because that is sometimes also politically attractive. We don't have that luxury. Mr. Chairman. Mr Alkaya asked if I would be willing to talk to the banks about the organization they want to set up together. Yes, without a doubt, but to avoid any misunderstandings: I am very busy with that. Last week I discussed the sector, together with Minister Grapperhaus, in order to discuss how we can shape this initiative, which is all of us at the table, in order to arrive at a common approach and a common database, in such a way that, of course, we take matters relating to privacy very seriously. In my view, it is our common interest to maintain that privacy, but also to ensure that we solve things that simply cannot and where the rule of law fights with one hand on the back. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van der Linde asked what the effectiveness of the policy was. How many bad guys are we gonna catch and how much money are we gonna take? I think the honest answer is that we have done this over the last period of time, and I am not blaming anyone for just doing too little, and we have thought for too long that we could do it with the resources we had. We're pulling a huge leg and we should, but this is really something of a long life. Nor do I exclude the fact that, in three, six, nine, twelve months, from the Justice Department, from finance or from anyone else, or whatever else, there will be another signal that we need to take another step on one part. I'd like to be willing to, because it's really about something.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u63	Let me ask you a question about the cooperation organisation in which the banks will work together in order to better and jointly address such controls on money laundering and terrorist financing. Is this an organisation of only the organisations that sit at the table there, so the founders, or should that result in an organisation where smaller players in the sector can also make use of the knowledge and skills that are being built up there?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u64	I have no indication that the big banks are seeking to exclude others. I learned, also last week, how complex it is and how much time it takes to build it. You know my impatience. My question in such a conversation is of course immediately: can't you be half done next year? I'd like to do that with great speed. Ideally, we have that at some point at 100% of the banking landscape, but I am already very happy if we can do that at great speed for the largest banks, because then we have the bulk of transactions. Mr. Chairman. Mr Snels asked if our legislation facilitates innovation sufficiently. I would almost say that is a bit of a philosophical answer, almost by definition not. Of course, as legislators, we are always following innovation. At the same time, I believe that the step we are taking with this Anti-Money Laundering Directive is really a move in the right direction. We must realise that adjustments will remain necessary, because this is a game of cat and mouse. The degree of development and inventiveness of organised crime also requires a very high degree of inventiveness on the part of the government. I was in Brabant yesterday. That's where I saw what's going on in those drug labs. On some parts we are simply overburdened when it comes to the skill and speed with which one is looking for another channel or another method. Mr Nijboer asked whether it would be possible, given the limited capacity of the FIU, to set up the task even more effectively. As I said, we now have no indication that the capacity would be too low, but if that proves necessary, we will do so, I say to Mr Nijboer. I repeated that yesterday in the direction of the organization, and also last week. Mr Snels, and I also believe Mr Van der Linde, asked why banks and other Wwft institutions do not have access to the closed data and the use of the bsn. Given the sensitivity of the data, these are accessible only to public parties. I think that's a sensible choice too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u65	The banks have those bsn numbers. In fact, now with the referral portal banks, they have to use it. They're already using it for information they have to pass on to the IRS. It's just a ghost game being fed. The banks have the bsn numbers, but they can't use them. If you want to put all that data together to datamines, that bsn number is essential.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u66	For the record: in the context of increasing the effectiveness of that gatekeeper function, we are going to look again at privacy for the purposes of the anti-money laundering plan. We'll get to the AP again. We still have to wait for that advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u67	That the Minister would like to await the opinion of the Personal Authority, I understand. However, the fact that banks should not use the bsn number cannot be an argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u68	I heard that right, and I understand that. But I really want to park that. I want to return to Mr Van der Linde through the AP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u69	One of my questions was: when did that opinion come from the Personal Data Authority? I do see that privacy sensitivity plays a role here. The second question is the following. It is not just about using that data to look for criminals as well and effectively as possible. It's also about checking the data and data quality. Those gatekeepers and the big banks can play a role in that if they get access. So there are several elements to why it would indeed be helpful to take that step. When's that advice coming?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u70	Before the end of the year, I hope, about the piece I mentioned now. It could also be that documents simply call for a longer dialogue with the AP. I would now like to emphasise the following. Mr Alkaya referred to it explicitly, but so did others. Of course, privacy is a great asset, but we also need to ensure that privacy is not an obstacle if it is not a legitimate interest of the good citizens to protect information, but it does keep criminals in the saddle with it. Well, that's a lot going on right now. I would like to mention once again the example I have given here before, because that is just the way it is now. If criminal A is pushed out of a bank without further criminal prosecution, but just because that bank says "this is wrong," then that bank can't share with the bank across the street that that lady or Mr. Bank has worked out. So what happens then? The person goes across the street, sometimes literally, but usually that happens in a slightly different way, and starts there all over again, learning from the experience with that first bank. That's intricate, so that's what we have to do. I think that can be done with the consideration of privacy, but that is exactly what I want to do very carefully with the Personal Data Authority, because of course there is not for nothing. It is also there to protect the interests of well-intentioned citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u71	I understand that. The Dutch Data Protection Authority also has to do with the development in the digitisation of our society, our world. They get a lot on their plate. We want all kinds of things. We throw it over the wall towards the benches. The example you mention is the exchange from one bank to another. We would actually like to arrange that this can be easier, but then the element of a unique key also plays. Who's a person? With a bsn number you could easily make that possible. I don't see why that should take so long. Why can't the cabinet make the decision: we're just gonna use that part in communication and we're gonna wait and see what the AP comes up with?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u72	I understand that very well, but I would like to refer to my answer to Mr Van der Linde. What if I do that now? Such a hypothesis is always dangerous. The Prime Minister always strongly advises against it, but I'm gonna do it now. Suppose I do that now and then the Personal Data Authority whistles back to me. Then I know about what the Chamber will say from left to right, namely: that is very sloppy of the Minister; why didn't he check that out in advance? I think we all see the importance, but I would like to take this intermediate step. I see that Mr Ronnes is very happy with this answer, so I shall continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u73	He's gloating about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u74	How do I see the coincidence between prosecution and the cooperation of banks? I believe that is what Mr Groothuizen asked for. The prosecution itself has indicated that it can perform its duties as a prosecuting authority in the event of abuses and as a cooperation partner really well side by side. So I understand the question very well, because it is of course also a special company that you have at the table and that we had at the table last week. It's the banks, it's the FIU, it's the FIOD, it's one of the most senior police people, it's the Minister of Justice and myself, it's the D.A. In short, everyone's sitting there at the table. It is true that some have not come across each other in the form of cooperation on specific dossiers either. And yet it has to be both, because if we're gonna try to solve this in silos, we're not gonna win this. That is what the FIU, the FIOD, the national police, really everyone involved, so I take that very seriously. But I do understand Mr Grothuizen's question very well: how do you prevent you from sitting on each other's laps? I think we can do that in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u75	I agree that this cooperation is necessary, but the question is how to ensure that people do not sit too much together. That the intention is not to do so, I would like to assume, and I absolutely believe it, but if you work intensively with the same people for years to fight money laundering and suddenly change the roles, then that may feel very uncomfortable. How can the Minister organise this in such a way that it does not lead to too close cooperation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u76	I think it's already starting that I'm not organizing this, because it's gonna go wrong. The D.A. needs to organize this, and the investigating authorities need to organise this. They know that much better than I do. As Minister of Finance, I have to know nothing about this until about one day before this sort of thing comes out, so I have a very short head start on the Chamber. I really think that this is well invested in the authorities. I could ask the Member of the Court of Justice if he could share information on this matter with the Chamber. I don't know if that's possible, but it's really the responsibility of the D.A. and the competent authorities and not of me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u77	Of course, this is not about operational information, because I do not want to know it at all. But I think the question is clear. If you're going to work closely together and if you're suddenly facing a bank that becomes a suspect, you're going to have to keep that uninhibited attitude. I understand the Minister at least shares that with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u78	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u79	So at least it's still a search for exactly how we're going to shape that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u80	We have also asked the investigating authorities: how do you prevent this from happening? I'd like to promise to come back to this. I think it would be more up to the Member of the Court of Justice than to myself. I would still consider the FIOD to be part of my own home, but further, Mr Grothuizen's question concerns in particular what you are doing when the prosecution has decided to prosecute or consider prosecution. Then there's potential for that intimate collaboration, let's say, type 2. I would ask the Minister of Justice to answer that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u81	On this same point, I would have liked to draw attention to the safety culture that goes with it. You want in these partnerships, for example, a bank in all openness can walk to DNB and the public prosecutor with the question: "Joh, we have this and this. Did we do this right?" Or, "We did something wrong. How can others learn from this?" Of course, that doesn't work safely when the D.A. can raid the next day. So my question was mainly how to build that safe environment with each other in which you can share doubts and mistakes and learn with each other. As long as the state's attorney's office sits there with two hats, you keep running into them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u82	I'm a little more optimistic about that. In part, this can also be done in the current situation. A bank where one doubts whether one is doing well can go to De Nederlandsche Bank. It can also potentially informally consult with the FIOD. It really has opportunities to verify whether they are doing it in a good way. At the same time, on the one hand, you do not want to sit on each other's lap too much; that actually brings us back to Mr Groothuizen's question. I really don't have that concern. On the other hand, you don't want people to decide not to share information out of fear of getting into the dock. I think we can do this by making good agreements with each other. This can be solved, for example, by applying and discussing cases anonymously, by exploring with each other what is happening and what we think of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u83	I would appreciate it if the Minister and the Minister of Justice would write one more letter on how they see this. I think that also responds to the doubt at D66 on this point. If we could get another letter on that, to be dealt with in the Finance Committee, that would be very nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u84	It seems to me to be a privilege for the Minister of Justice to have dealt with his letter in the Finance Committee. I extend the commitment as follows. Mr Groothuizen's question was, in fact, how to ensure that it does not go too far together. Mr Van der Linde's is actually about the exact opposite: how do you ensure that you do not miss out on cases or solutions because of fear of the all-seeing eye of the competent authority? I believe that I can take these two points together with the Minister of Justice in a letter. It will then come to the Justice Committee and the Finance Committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u85	I actually have a supplement to this point. In the political economy it is called "regulatory capture" when people who have to supervise each other sit together too often. That is one of the lessons of the banking crisis. In the banking crisis, De Nederlandsche Bank was a bit too close to the banks, putting pressure on independent supervision. That lesson from the banking crisis, which leaves the need for cooperation unabated, could be drawn, for example, in that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u86	A bit of college.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u87	I'll take advantage of that. As far as Mr Snels expects a response, he will receive it in the letter. Mr Alkaya asked whether digital money had also been considered to maintain a maximum, comparable to cash. No, because when using digital money, you can trace which account it comes from, so you don't have the problem in the same way. Mr Ronnes asked what consequences a possible negative assessment of the Financial Action Task Force would have and whether I would look forward to that evaluation with confidence. For the record: this evaluation is an opportunity to show on an international stage what we are doing as the Netherlands and how much faster we are walking now. I would add that, if I had to make a prediction, I would think that money laundering in a country like Italy is already very prominent on the agenda, but that a number of other countries will wake up and then discover that the problems are much bigger and much more extensive for them too than they might now think. There was still the question, I think Mr Groothuizen, whether overcompliance is as bad as non-compliance. That may be very brief, but it is, of course, problematic if the compliance with the Wwft by overcompliance becomes so severe that these obligations are no longer properly met. I do not think that this problem is already occurring, but it is typically something that lends itself to an evaluation of the law. If I am prepared to accept the recommendation of the Court of Auditors and include information in the next budget, Mr Groothuizen asked. Yes, all the recommendations of the Court of Auditors will be followed up. Money laundering risks are made transparent through the National Risk Assessment. It shall be updated periodically and shall also be shared with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u88	This could save a motion. I just want to get it real sharp. The Minister admits that he is going to include in next year's budget the risks, what the organisations are doing to mitigate those risks and what results we are achieving with the use of these resources. That is what the Court of Auditors has been recommending since 2013, but it is still not in the budget. I am therefore pleased with this opening, but I would like to have it very specific.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u89	Mr Groothuizen has the same tendency as his colleague, Mr Sneller, of course it is not for nothing a group member, because my answer is much longer than I gave it. We have really followed up on some of these recommendations. Where this has not yet happened and where we can also make these money laundering risks transparent and, for example, make it clear on which parts of the budget we are now spending money intended to tackle money laundering, I would very much like to do so. It seems to me that this is coming a long way, but as Mr Groothuizen puts it, it sounded even more beautiful than I was already planning.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u90	This sounded pretty good in itself, but is it true that this is also included in the case of......................................................................................................................................................................... Because that is, of course, what we are all looking for in the end, how effective the commitment we make to money laundering is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u91	That's exactly where my suspicion came from, because that's really another question. I think you have the allocation question, the question of how much resources you're making available and what part of the playing field you're covering up with, and there's the question of whether we're doing enough and whether what we're doing is effective. I think that is a fair question, but that is more a question that needs to be raised in the regular evaluations. I think that the budget is too limited for that. I therefore honestly believe that I am doing more justice to the question by including it in periodic evaluations. Then I come to block two, the implementation of the AMLD. Mr Ronnes asked whether it was true that the Commission has launched infringement proceedings against Member States that were troubling with the introduction of the directive. That is true in the sense that the deadlines for implementation are always relatively short. I have often had to say here with shame on the jaws that we were trying to escape an infringement procedure. We weren't ready here in time either. The good news is that all Member States have now completed implementation, but the European Commission will be in talks with all Member States, not least because it believes that no Member State has fully implemented the Directive. So it is a mouse that gets another tail than Mr Ronnes probably thought. Mr. Chairman. Then Mr Snels asked whether we should think about additional measures for non-customian wallets or, for example, for transactions on the darkweb. That's a fair question. For the record: this law of course already adds a number of gatekeepers, such as the so-called custodian wallets, the storage wallets, and the exchange services. But those non-customian wallets aren't one of them. There's just one thing about it for me. Precisely because that is not the case, and of course this is a really risky category, I would like to monitor whether the use of non-customian wallets is increasing, for example, and whether this leads to additional risks. Of course, the investigation services also pay particular attention to the use of cryptos on the darkweb. If they ask for further action, we will look into it without delay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u92	I had also noticed that the explanatory memorandum contained the word 'preliminary' in brackets. Therefore, the possibility of additional measures is already being considered. It seems to me that it's hard to keep an eye on it. There will be a waterbed effect, but that will only be for the people who really want to stay out of sight, and that is precisely what these criminals are about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u93	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u94	So how can you monitor whether good people go to those non-customian wallets or whether it's just those criminals?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u95	That is a fair question, but that is the same as the question of how much money is being laundered in the Netherlands. I do not have the technical expertise to make an assessment of this, but there are people who are very gifted in making an assessment, of course with a bandwidth. Competent authorities, as well as scientific experts, will try to do so. Mr. Chairman. Then Mr Bruins quite rightly asked whether AMLD5 is proportional for fintech and crypto companies and what about the high compliance costs. For the record, this so-called registration obligation is more proportionate than the licence requirement. This authorisation must also be subject to a prior substantive assessment and there are simply more conditions for granting or not granting it. So it's completely out of trouble? No, of course it's not. We have to be honest about that, too, but I think the lighter regime will help here. Then Mr Alkaya asked a question which I hope I have already answered in part. If I put it positively, I would like to express it in such a way that he is pressing me once again to take the AP very seriously. We really do. We have done the same when looking at this particular bill, but we will continue to do so with everything else, precisely because I want to get out of the frame where you either fight money laundering properly or guarantee privacy. Of course, that can't be true. Both of us have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u96	Let's talk about the previous point. That sounds good, but I have a question about the compliance costs involved, at least for smaller entrepreneurs. There are entrepreneurs who say that their compliance costs will increase fivefold, that they will be forced to stop if this continues and that the only companies that can still meet this are large commercial banks or tech giants like Facebook and Google. Does the Minister agree with me that this cannot be the intention? Is he gonna make sure that doesn't happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u97	Let me start by saying that I don't recognize it, that factor five doesn't, or that parties would then, paraphrasingly, be pushed out of the market. That's not my perception. I would like to say to Mr Alkaya that we will monitor this too, because it is important, but if you want to do something about this, there are some compliance costs inevitable, including for the crypto companies. That is why that was my answer to Mr Bruins. So we are looking for proportionality by choosing this regime and I would like to continue to monitor it, but my impression is really not that this will cause companies to fall apart.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u98	One more step further and I think we're pretty close. Will the Minister say once again that it cannot be the intention, so that it should not work out so that these smaller companies are driven out of the market? I can see why he's saying, "I don't recognize myself in that." But does he also want to say that that should not be the outcome?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u99	For the record, each company must comply with the legal framework. Whether it's the supermarket, the butcher at the corner or the toy store, if it's too much for you to keep to the demands made by the legislator and therefore you don't think you can survive anymore, that's the consequence. The fact that companies are being pushed out of the market is a situation that we do not want, but there is a certain threshold. See also the discussion we had with each other about the trust offices. We have also said that we are raising the bar. It may be that very small trust offices that cannot comply with that compliance can no longer participate in the movement of peoples, but that is a conscious choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u100	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u101	Very briefly, Mr President, finally. Then I come back to my previous question about those cooperation organisations that are even going to set up commercial banks to do this more effectively. That is why it is so important that smaller players can have access to it, because even for those commercial banks it is already a difficult task, when they have thousands of people on it. That is why I urge the Minister to make these cooperation organisations also accessible to smaller organisations, because I do not rule out the fact that it is becoming too much for those individual organisations at some point. That's just a shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u102	Absolutely. That's what I heard. I share Mr Alkaya's view. And again, it is absolutely not our intention to push smaller players out of the market. That is absolutely not the intention, but if you take this problem seriously, it is right that you say: there is a particular soil, a certain minimum of rules that apply to everyone; that should apply to everyone. But thank you for Mr Alkaya's question. Then Mr Ronnes asked for double or even triple checks. Of course, that is absolutely not the intention. Gatekeepers are the first to contact their customers themselves. They are therefore best placed to assess the behaviour of their customers. As I said in my introduction, you will then run into the complication that criminals then try to spread their behavior across all kinds of agencies, devise new techniques, sit in different types of businesses, use different account numbers and so on. That game of cat and mouse can't be avoided. That is why it is good that institutions conduct separate investigations, but I would not call that a double or a triple check. I think that's both necessary, in some cases all three of them. Mr Van der Linde asked what was the point of screening a vve and an energy cooperative. That is, of course, a legitimate question, but I would like to refer to the directive which imposes certain restrictions. That Directive provides sufficient scope to facilitate customer investigations in the event of demonstrably low risks. In my view, we should also use this life-saving buoy, for example, in the field of energy cooperation or the VVE. But we can't completely ignore that vve and that energy cooperative, even if not because it's waiting for the criminal who thinks: that's where I have to be. I'm on it. Mr. Chairman. Then Mr Snels, Mr Van der Linde and I also think Ronnes whether the threat to gatekeepers is on my radar and whether I am prepared to explore the possibilities of partially anonymized reporting to the FIU. Absolutely. I am only going to go into the area of the Justice colleague, who, in reply to Parliament's questions last Friday, has already promised that he is prepared to take stock and consult with notaries or how you can improve that reporting process.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u103	I had already prepared a motion with Mr Ronnes and Mr Van der Linde. I don't have to submit it now, so that's very nice. That saves another motion. It is a good thing that at some point we will be informed by the Minister of Justice about how this exploration has been carried out and what conclusions are being drawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u104	It's tempting to say he'll turn that in tomorrow at the Chamber, but I won't. Thank you, too, for dropping the motion for a resolution. Mr Van der Linde asked about an issue that many here, but certainly also him and myself, are very concerned about, namely whether this strengthened Wwft for innovative fintech companies is not also a huge hiccup. That's a fair question. The fourth Anti-Money Laundering Directive is also as much technology-neutral as possible, but that is what it is called "designed" and thus also offers room for new and innovative ideas. But it cannot be ruled out that it is precisely those smaller, newer and innovative players who need to take an extra step here too and that this entails additional costs. I have already looked at Mr Alkaya's question about the rules for cryptoservice providers. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the third block, the UBO. A lot of questions have been asked about that, rightly and important, because we are looking together for what is a reasonable middle here. How do you do justice to our shared desire to implement this directive and provide a UBO system, but at the same time ensure that people do not become unnecessarily concerned about their privacy? Or worse yet, there were some spokesmen who hinted at "How do you prevent them from actually being put at risk?" I am going to say more about the amendments in a moment, but that is of course one of the reasons why I am in favour of the proposal from a number of parties. Mr Ronnes asked what the impact of the subsequent examination of the bill for the delivery of the register was. The good news is that, as the BIT also notes in the opinion, the construction of the register will be completed at the beginning of next year and that the postponement of entry into force will not affect that. Mr Groothuizen asked what effect the announced measures would have on the effectiveness of the register. Two measures have been announced to improve the privacy of UBOs and prevent abuse. The UBOs gain insight into the number of consultations and counsellors are better identified. I don't think that's at the expense of effectiveness. In addition, consultations by competent authorities and the FIU are not notified to the UBO. I think there's really a reasonable middle ground there. Mr Ronnes asked me to urge the Minister for Foreign Affairs to proceed quickly. I will at least do that orally before this week is over. Mr Groothuizen asked how much money is being allocated to the enforcement of that UBO? And how many people are we talking about? The commitment to enforcement is necessary. Additional resources are being used for this. In particular, the initial filling of the register will be a major task. Mr Alkaya and, in my view, Mr Nijboer and others have referred to this. There are over 1.5 million existing entities that need to register their UBOs. This means that 26 FTEs are occasionally made available to the Economic Enforcement Office for enforcement at this stage. For the phase after that, you need 6 FTEs structuralally. That is not the world on the rich budget, but it is fair to say that it costs money. Then Mr Ronnes asked what the filling process looked like and what the intermediate phase looked like. For the filling we take 18 months. That depends on you putting those 1.6 million entities in there. Those entities shall be written by letters. That's got a hell of a lead time. That is, of course, quite an administrative process. Mr Groothuizen asked whether the UBOs were given an insight into how often the information is consulted and by whom. The UBOs do not get an insight into who is consulted. I also think that's reasonable. Think of the case in which a journalist would like to know about an UBO. That would not be desirable, and that could also work alertly. It would violate the privacy of the counsellor, and it could also alert criminals, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u105	About the stuffing. All entities that need to be registered will receive a letter. Is it then up to that entity itself to decide when to register or when to register? I can imagine family businesses or individuals saying: for security reasons, I would like the system to be 100% fine. But that unique identification of people looking in the system is only available later. What's that like in time?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u106	To be honest, I should check the specific deadline given to companies in that letter. There will undoubtedly be a maximum time limit. Some will take their time, for tactical reasons or because they are simply busy with other things than registering in the UBO. But in the end, these entities are all meant to get into it. If this is Mr Ronnes' concern, I do not think that those who register faster will be in a worse position than those who look at it. Mr. Chairman. Mr Stoffer was quite right to ask again about the relationship between privacy security. Of course, we are constantly looking for the right balance. I would like to emphasise once again that there is a real public interest that justifies the processing of personal data here, but precisely because of the enormous sensitivity and legitimate concerns in your Chamber as indirectly expressed in the amendment, we have wanted to make the balance even clearer than in the original legislative proposal. Mr. Chairman. I also think that Mr Stoffer's question and concern about family businesses and SMEs have been explicitly addressed. Mr Stoffer also asked whether you should not make an exception to the registration requirement for certain entities. For the record, the directive requires all legal entities to register UBOs in the UBO register. The entities excluded from the obligation to register are excluded either because they are not fully entitled to act in legal matters, as is the case with owners' associations, or because there is another particular interest, as is the case with church societies. I'll say a little more about it in a moment, but that's the containment that's attached to this. Mr. Chairman. Mr Stoffer asked about the tax administration's execution test and the sensitivity to fraud. Of course, we take that very seriously. That means that we will have to mitigate that again. Dutch legal entities will simply be obliged to register in that UBO register. In the event of non-compliance, sanctions can and will of course be imposed by the so-called Economic Enforcement Office. I have the good hope that this will not happen immediately, but over time the new will really become normal and so you also have a smaller and smaller group that has not registered. You might still have to go after that. Mr. Chairman. Mr Stoffer indirectly expressed his appreciation of the game of chance in another question. He asked why an exception was made for certain gaming services. Those gambling services have been covered by the Wwft since the Fourth Anti-money laundering Directive. The Anti-Money Laundering Directive provides for the possibility of making an exception where there are low risks. That's why a quick scan was carried out on the implementation to that sector. On the basis of that quickscan, that exception was made, in order not to impose more burdens than is necessary. Mr. Chairman. Mr Nijboer asked whether competent authorities and FIU could access all the information in the UBO register. He wanted confirmation of that. The answer is yes, absolutely. Mr. Chairman. Mr Snels asked why you should ask for an amount, while it is free in other countries. I would almost like to say that because we want to make money in this country. But that compensation is meant because it will cover the costs of the system. Mr Ronnes asked about the further development of the register. I really come here at the borders or even go beyond the limits of my parate knowledge about how to screw up such a system. However, I would like to say that I agree with Mr Ronnes that development is very important. That task has also been explicitly entrusted to the KvK. This will be done as soon as the UBO register has been put into operation. Mr Ronnes also asked about the legal entities established outside the EU and relocated to the Netherlands. It's actually very simple. Entities established outside the Netherlands and wishing to transfer their registered office to the Netherlands must register in the Commercial Register and register as UBO. Mr. Chairman. I'm getting to an even bigger point in this block. This is about the dilemma that the VVD, as well as the CDA, the Christian Union and the SGP have pointed out from different angles, namely the situation in which church societies are situated. For the record: almost all legal entities established in the Netherlands must register as UBO in that register, as I said just now in the direction of Mr Stoffer. That obligation also applies to foundations. Mosques often act under the foundation's legal form. In this sense, at least some of the concerns of Mr Van der Linde or mosques where things should not be done fall within the scope of this bill. There are also entities excluded. For example, the legal form of church society is deliberately excluded. Only if a mosque as a legal entity has a church society is told that this is not often the case................................................................................................................................................................................................... The exception for the church societies is reasonable and fair and can be justified because otherwise you will register people's religion. I would like to say the following to those who are enthusiastic or less enthusiastic about the way the cabinet is going here. If we get concrete signals in the future, we will monitor this and it turns out that church societies are simply being abused at scale for money laundering and terrorist financing, we will have to take this piece again. By the way, these dilemmas have not yet been resolved. Then exactly the dilemmas we now have are again on the table. We may then come to another weighting, but of course I cannot anticipate that now. Mr. Chairman. I think I took Mr Ronnes' question about misuse of legal form into account, as did his question about foundations for religious purposes. So they're not excluded because of the fact that they're a foundation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u107	I understand very well that the subject of the church societies lives with a number of political parties. I also understand that there is the conviction that they should be excluded. But let's say you're going through this line consistently. Political orientation is in line with belief or belief in the Constitution. Political parties could exclude you for the same reason. Why don't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u108	That is a good question, but it is a different legal form. Mr Van der Linde is right. As always, all those who are in the Netherlands are treated equally, in accordance with Article 1 of the Constitution. Mr Van der Linde is also able to push the whole line: no distinction is allowed on the basis of race, gender, political will, belief or any other ground. However, it is quite different here, because a political party is generally an association, although I have sometimes understood that there are political parties without members or with a minimum number of members. But at least that is different from the legal definition of 'church societies'.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u109	But then it's not in the fundamental point that your faith doesn't want to register, because mosques are often foundations and that's where we find it no problem to register. So it's only practical in the question "Are you or aren't you a foundation?" or "Are you a legal person under the law?"
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u110	Of course, I would very much like to give even more giving answers on Article 1 of the Constitution, but the Minister of Justice is even more competent in that. So I would like to add even more layers to the answer here, but let me do that in second term, because there must be someone from the JenV Ministry who can give me further information about this. To me, those classes of state law were a long time ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u111	I wonder what the Minister will do if that amendment on the Church societies is adopted. Should we not first have an opinion from the AP on such an amendment before we put it to the vote, so that it can be taken into account in the decision-making process?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u112	With Mr Ronnes' approval, I shall return to each of the amendments in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u113	On this subject, I myself suggested that it might be possible for the Chamber of Commerce to keep an annual record of the new churches that are not included in the UBO register. Do you think there's any other way in in there?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u114	I think that's an excellent suggestion. So I'd like to take it with me. I am going to make it even more beautiful: I would also like to say to Mr Bruins and to all the Members who have asked questions on this subject that, of course, this also lends itself to an evaluation. This is also terra incognita. We must therefore look back at some point and see what has happened on this particular and sensitive subject. Mr. Chairman. Mr Ronnes asked if I would be prepared to make clear what registers exist and what information is collected in them. I'd be happy to. Moreover, in all new sources of information, the starting point is that the different interests are well balanced, and I would like to stress once again the privacy aspects. Then Mr Ronnes asked how long the remark "in research" will remain in the register when a return notification is made. That depends a little on the nature of the callback. This includes, for example, whether additional information should be requested. But a simple feedback can of course also be processed very quickly. Mr. Chairman. Mr Alkaya asked whether there was also a duty for tax advisers and what is the situation. Tax advisors are also Wwft institutions. In this context, they are obliged to conduct customer research and also to establish the UBO. This also means that they are obliged to report back if they discover discrepancies. Mr Alkaya also asked whether the 25% limit should not be lowered. That question was actually somewhat along the lines of what Mr Nijboer said. My first line of defense would be next. We have now applied this 25% limit in all the Member States. That also makes sense from an international point of view. But I understand the questioners quite frankly, because I am also afraid of cutting on such a subject. So I would like to stick to that border now, but I would like to agree with the Chamber right now that we will take this right away in the evaluation or, if we have signals earlier that there will be a cut, we will follow Mr Alkaya's suggestion and Mr Nijboer's suggestion and then we will simply make an adjustment. Because I think they are quite right to say: this is one of those cat-and-mouse possibilities that you may have to close up again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u115	Mr Nijboer on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u116	The obvious question, of course, is: will we not have to close it later, but not open it? Why doesn't the Minister choose that? 'Cause we can do that now. We have the law now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u117	Yes. Mr Nijboer recognizes that we have not come to a European legislative proposal with too little time. That's where we marked the 25% limit. So it's in there. I think it is really wise to do so, because I am not sure whether this problem arises either. I also try to be a bit open and cerebral in it, because there are quite a lot of suggestions being made, of which I also wonder whether they will not be the problem of six months or twelve months from now because of the cat-and-mouse game. So I think it's wise to do this now, but to monitor closely what the effect is. If necessary, we just need to adjust quickly. Mr. Chairman. Could I also say something else about the shareholders' register? Mr Nijboer mentioned his plan. I think he himself and I think Mr Van der Linde also noticed that there was broad enthusiasm for the UBO and that these two are not necessarily mutually exclusive. Frankly, and without making any major commitments, I would like to resume the dialogue on at least some of it. I can imagine that there are pieces of puzzles in there that we will be able to use again, without commenting entirely in detail. Mr Nijboer himself rightly said, I think, that the advantage of the UBO register is that you do something European. But we really can't afford the luxury of leaving puzzle pieces behind, because we think we actually finished that debate last year. I would like to say to Mr Nijboer that I am open in this and that I would like to resume this dialogue, without any prior clause on the part of the cabinet and without any commitment on the one hand or on the other. I think he'll understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u118	We've had the first term in the Chamber. There was sometimes strong support and sometimes there were also critical comments. Perhaps Mr Alkaya and I can do something with that too. Mr Alkaya and I are happy to respond to the Minister's invitation, because I believe that there is also something national at European level.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u119	I'd love to. Let me make it very practical right away. If the proposers think it is sensible, I would like to offer the opportunity to discuss with officials the issues we have already thought about with this bill and the issues that could really be additional. That possibility exists for all Members of Parliament, but I am now making it explicit. If that reconnaissance would be helpful, I'd be happy to. Mr. Chairman. I had Mr Bruins' question, on which I just said 'that seems to me to be an excellent idea' here in front of me, but he was ahead of me. Mr Bruins also asked whether the system could be set up in such a way that it was clearly clear who would have access to it. In my view, I have announced two additional measures: the UBOs will gain insight into the number of consultations and the counsellors will be better identified. But I also said that if you then reveal the identity of the counsellor, you will alert criminals and others who may have something to hide, for example because a journalist is after them. I don't think that's wise either. So I think this is a reasonable middle.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u120	I'm not asking you to identify counselors. I'm just asking for the numbers of counselors to be made available to the UBOs. It's just the numbers. But I don't want the total number. What I am asking is whether the Minister can ensure that the system has a number of categories, such as the authorities. I would say that the UBO does not need to know that the authorities are watching, so he is not hearing them. Then you have the Wwft institutions in two categories: those who are under national supervision and those who are not under national supervision. Those are two categories. And then you have a third category: others. So the UBO can get three numbers, namely the number of applicants in the first, second and third categories, without knowing who they are.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u121	I like the structure very much in itself, because it betrays something about Mr Bruins' thinking power. In the meantime, of course, I'm trying to wonder out loud what this means to the person who sees it. To what extent am I not at odds with my initial position that I don't want people to get information you don't want them to get? Let me make a final plea on this in the second term. Mr President, I have received incredibly many questions from your Chamber. I'm gonna keep going anyway. Mr Bruins asked whether the law could be extended from entities established only in the Netherlands to all entities established in the Netherlands. This is actually in line with what Mr Ronnes has just said, but it is a different form. The directive is about being required to register in the Member State where the legal entity was established. If it moves, I come with my answer towards Mr Ronnes. Mr Bruins asked how to prevent something from happening with the registration of minors that you do not want. For the record: all UBOs are informed in writing by the Chamber of Commerce of the registration. UBOs are not automatically registered, but by stating an entity or by a notary. A notary shall register a UBO only upon instruction from a person authorised to do so. Mr Bruins also asked whether minor UBOs are automatically protected. No, but although there is no automatic shielding, there is the possibility in the registration process to make a simultaneous request for shielding. I see Mr Bruins nodding, so I'll leave that other half-page. Mr Alkaya asked whether it was not possible for directors of trust offices such as UBOs of companies to be included in the register. Yes, because the trust office must always know for whom those services are provided. That also means it has to track down the UBO. Mr Bruins (PPE). - (NL) Mr President, I am with him almost for the last time in this block, and I asked him how we ensured that the European platform would make the same demands in terms of privacy and security as in the Netherlands. Bulgaria, I understand, did not find him a shining example. The Directive provides that the technical specifications for coupling are to be established by the European Commission. The same applies to the common criteria. But fair is fair, there will be countries that do this more in the Dutch way and countries that do this less. I would almost say that it is not the only European dossier on which we have this problem. Mr. Chairman. Mr. Alkaya asked about the search by name in the UBO register. I think I handled that. Mr Groothuizen asked about the commercial use of the data. For the record, that register contains personal data. The KvK only provides data from the UBO register for the purpose for which they were obtained. Commercial use of such data, such as direct marketing, is not permitted.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u122	If the minister's handled the search by name, at least I missed it. I can't really imagine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u123	I think I said in the appreciation of what we've done to tighten things up, that we're trying to find the middle between what information you're pulling out and what information you can't just pull out. Because of privacy, we have the search by name of the company, so you put a name in the system and then those entities come up and don't want to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u124	Clear. Are we ready for block four yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u125	Mr President, I do, but I do not know whether this also applies to Mr Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u126	He has one short question. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u127	Yeah, finally, and then I'm out of questions, too. Of course, this is just public information. Left or right of course it's going to come out. This is just to keep research journalists and the like from making life miserable. So the Minister would like to take a look at that after all?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u128	We looked into it. Each of these pieces of the puzzle we have, of course, adjusted and weighed. See also the discussion that we will soon be discussing about the amendment, and the discussion about what you want with churches versus mosques that are a foundation. This is a really good attempt to find a reasonable middle ground here between what you need to want in terms of tracking, what you need to want in terms of insight and what you need to want for the sake of privacy. It is not quite the optimum that Mr Alkaya might have found, but I think this is wise. Mr President, I am on the subject that you have been waiting for, and that is the referral portal. Mr Van der Linde asked whether I expected there to be an increase in the number of calls. Those searches through the referral portal shall be kept in the system itself and shall be reported annually. In any case, I will ensure that at least the Chamber is kept informed on the main points. Mr. Ronnes asked what possibility a customer has to check who requested his data. In general, a data subject can always request access to his personal data from a bank or a public administration, but the importance of the investigation may, of course, oppose immediate access. That is also the result of the law. Mr Ronnes asked how data may be combined. This is monitored internally by the data protection officer of the organisation concerned and the AP, to the satisfaction of Mr Alkaya, who then supervises it again. Mr Alkaya asked about development costs. The annual management costs are borne by the Ministries of Justice and Security and Finance and are included in the budgets. Mr Snels asked why the Tax Administration is going to submit 700 000 to 900 000 requests. In order to prevent fraud, the Tax Administration may pay only fees and refunds on the account number in the name of the applicant. If people then apply for a new supplement or change their bank, then the Tax Administration must also check if the new account number belongs to that applicant. There is much to say about the surcharges, but this is one of the complexities involved in this system. Anything else that can be said about the surcharges, I think we should do at another time in this house. Mr Ronnes asked if I could indicate the offences involved in this enlargement. The referral portal shall be used to detect all offences for which there is already the power to request identifying data from banks. Then I think Mr Ronnes knows what angle to look for it in, but that is also relatively broad. I think it is right because this is serious crime. Mr Groothuizen asked for a thorough review of the system in a number of years' time. I understand his concerns and I would also like to include this in the so-called periodic audit. Breder also lends himself to evaluation. Which brings me to the fifth block, other than that. Mr Groothuizen asked what concrete steps the government intends to take with regard to European anti-money laundering supervision of banks. With the permanent or permanent members of the Finance Committee, I have recently discussed the fact that I am very pleased that it has been possible with France, Germany, Spain, Italy and Latvia to reach a so-called non-paper in which we highlight the enormous importance of supervision at European level. The aim is to move the European Commission in the right direction, which is also sympathetic to this. Why is that so important? Every case you get your hands on has an international and often a European dimension. So we can't do this as the Netherlands alone. Mr Van der Linde was back at one of his older stones of offense, the PEP. I don't want to call it a rearguard fight, but we've talked about this subject before. Let me say this with Mr Van der Linde: I suggest once again to banks that they simply share the best practices and the ways in which they do this. That's helpful, I think. And I'm sure there'll be another evaluation. I also recognise personally that banks deal with it very differently. I've been scratching behind the ears a couple of times. One bank says, "Can I have your tax return?" And the next bank says, well, that all looks excellent. Then Mr. Alkaya asked... No, sorry. Mr Van der Linde asked how I guarantee that financial services will continue to be provided to international organisations and embassies. I have not received any signals that there would be a problem there, but that is also a good thing to include in that evaluation. Mr. Chairman. We have already talked about ATMs today, but Mr Nijboer also asked for specific commercial ATMs. That's where you're pinning money, and then to your own despair, you've lost a big part of that money again because you've been so stupid to pin it there. I say to him that I will go with De Nederlandsche Bank and possibly also with the Social Dialogue Payment traffic to see what the function and desirability of that type of commercial ATMs is. I don't think you should want to get rid of all those vending machines, but I'm interested to see if you run any additional integrity risks here. (NL) Mr President, then I am in favour of the amendments. I am not going to surprise the Chamber in that, given what I have already said. I'm treating them in the order they entered me. Mr Grothuizen's amendment to item No. 9 (35245) on publication report every two years, I would like to give my opinion to the Chamber, because it is important that we have a clear view at national and European level of the main risks of money laundering and terrorist financing. The next amendment is by Mr Van der Linde. It's got the same number on me. That is not going to be right, but that is the amendment to item No. 9 (35179) by Mr Van der Linde. It's about church societies and registering UBOs. I must advise against this amendment, but I hope that I have been able to reconcile the different views in the rigorous monitoring of it and in my explanation of what is going on for church societies and what is going on for foundations. Mr Stoffer wanted to exclude low-risk anbis from registration by means of the amendment to item No. 10 (35179). I must also advise against this amendment, because, as much as I understand its thinking and have expressed my sympathy for it, I find it very difficult to do so with this directive, which stipulates that all legal entities must register UBOs. There's something to be said for that. I therefore hope that Mr Stoffer will be able to carry it. Finally, I am in favour of Amendment No 2. 11 (35179) by Mr Bruins, Mr Van der Linde and Mr Ronnes, on safeguarding privacy measures. Again, that is extremely important and it is very good that we are making these adjustments, because it will improve the legislative proposal. I would therefore like to give the House's opinion on that amendment. That brings me to the end of my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u129	Very good. I have heard all kinds of Members say that they are not going to table motions that they had in mind. So I assume we can skip the second term. Perhaps a few would like to make a brief emotional final remark. I call Mr Van der Linde as the first speaker on the side of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u130	Mr. Chairman. Thorough, detailed and, according to my staff in the back room, "bullier than necessary." In short, it was a good finance debate, because it is about something. I think we are also broadly in agreement. I also believe that there is broad support for the legislation now before us. I have a few short questions. The FIU has 63 fte. I would like to hear from the Minister what he thinks is a realistic size of such an organization. That doesn't have to be reached tomorrow, but are we going from 63 fte to 100, to 200 or to 600? I'd like an appreciation of that. We talked about the bsn. I really hope that the Minister will inform us after the entry into force of the text of the Personal Data Authority. Then there's a practical question. The UBO register must be in place on 10 January. It'll have to go through the First Chamber. How does the Minister see the timetable for this? I have two motions. The first concerns point 1 of my own wish list against money laundering and is about penalties. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that combating money laundering and terrorist financing is of the utmost importance;]] [[Whereas there should be substantial penalties for financial crime in terms of both general and specific prevention;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with legislative proposals to increase penalties for (co-operation with or facilitation of) money laundering,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Linde. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31477-45]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u131	Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that financial institutions should conduct customer investigations as gatekeepers;]] [[Whereas some clients can become customers at an institution through another legal entity, for example through an association of owners or energy cooperative;]] [[Whereas the examination should then be repeated;]] [[Whereas this can act as a bureaucratic brake, for example in the context of the energy transition;]] [[calls on the Government to make every effort to prevent such "doubles" in customer research as much as possible, in order to use as effectively as possible anti-money laundering funds,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Linde and Mr Ronnes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35245-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u132	Mr Van der Linde asked me a question later. I thought: I actually have a curious question for him. I trust he will allow the Minister's authority to withdraw his amendment. But let's say he's a little naughty, doesn't do that and doesn't do the amendment. Suppose the amendment makes it. How am I supposed to see that in practice? Let's take the Roman Catholic Church for a moment. We both have a little less bond with that. Is the Pope, the Archbishop or each individual priest of each individual congregation, or whatever that is called?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u133	This is actually the question I have put to the Minister a few times: who is the UBO of the State of the Netherlands? Is that the King, the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance? Who's in charge? Perhaps the President of the House of Representatives. It's a bit of the puzzle we have every time with those pseudo-UBOs, but yes, someone will eventually have to be the UBO here in the Netherlands. That's how we agreed. For the Catholics, I actually think it would be the Archbishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u134	At least that is a clear answer. This is quite true for a lot of church societies. I assume that it will not happen, but imagine that the amendment is going to make it. This gives clarity: not every single municipality, but the national connection should have the registration. Well, let's put it this way. The Minister does not want the amendment, of course, but I can see him nodding yes. That's how we agreed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u135	Well, frankly, I agree with that in so far as there has to be a national authority. For the PKN that would work. Eventually, we're talking mosques that we're worried about here. I don't think they have national authority, so that would be over. By the way, there are some other church societies, the Scientology Church, the Church of the Flying Spaghetti Monster and some of those things that could all rely on them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u136	This is going to be an interesting discussion. Mr. Ronnes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u137	Now I've triggered colleague Ronnes!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u138	In the written procedure, I read that the NCTV showed that there is actually no risk in church societies at the moment. What is the urge of the VVD, through Mr Van der Linde, to find it so important to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u139	Two things. We have numerous organizations that you can in all your heart wonder if they should be in the UBO register. We have already mentioned them: the vves, pension funds, charities. And yet we put them all in. Then I find it illogical to exclude churches from that. Then I'm gonna leave the second one alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u140	Thank you. Mr Ronnes, CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u141	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to the Minister for replying in the first term. What also plays through this is the privacy aspect of the parties that are registered. I think it is a good thing that we look back over a certain period of time: has this resulted in what we had in mind? That is why I have tabled a motion on an evaluation. The motion speaks for itself. The text reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the register of final stakeholders, the UBO register, creates a comprehensive and publicly accessible register of personal data;]] [[Whereas the fight against and detection of money laundering is a very important task for the public authorities and is a crucial part of the fight against organised (drug) crime;]] [[Whereas the way in which the UBO register has been designed has a significant impact on the privacy of well-intentioned entrepreneurs, for example family businesses;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out an assessment of the impact on the privacy of final stakeholders after one year and four years after the completion of the UBO Registry;]] [[invites the Government to include the Personal Data Authority in this evaluation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ronnes and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35179-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u142	Then the social security number. The Minister replied that he considers it very important that he gets the opinion of the AP on this matter, the Dutch Data Protection Authority. I'll ask him to try to speed that up. He doesn't control that himself, but maybe he can check with a good conversation to see if there's some time to buy. What I'm really worried about is the FIU. Are they really able to live up to what is on their plate? I think we should keep a close eye on that. Last, but not least: the NCTV has really clearly indicated that church societies are not a risk at the moment. The importance of privacy in the eyes of the CDA now outweighs the aspect we are talking about when it comes to the UBO register. That is why we cannot support the amendment proposed by the VVD. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u143	Thank you. Then Mr Alkaya of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u144	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for the comprehensive answer. I had many motions in mind. They've become two, so that promises something. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that for small businesses compliance with the Implementation Act with the Fourth Anti-Money Laundering Directive entails both administrative and safety risks;]] [[Whereas there are already signs of operators threatened by reporting unusual transactions;]] [[considers that compliance with this implementing law should not lead to a risk to small entrepreneurs or to the displacement of small businesses due to excessive administrative burdens;]] [[calls on the Government to monitor the impact of this law on small enterprises, including in virtual currency, and to inform the Chamber of the law no later than one year after the entry into force of the law,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Alkaya and Mr Van der Linde. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35245-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u145	Then my second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the present draft of the UBO register has chosen not to allow search by name;]] [[considers that this is necessary for a good, transparent functioning;]] [[calls on the Government to make it possible to search the name of the ultimate interested party,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Alkaya and Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35245-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u146	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to endorse the Minister's introduction and the importance of this issue: an approach to financial crime. This is certainly because it has relations with disruptive crime in the Netherlands and with attacks on the rule of law. This is an important priority of the cabinet for all of us in the Chamber. I would also like to thank the Minister for the answers to the questions asked and for the commitment to protect our gatekeepers. It was an important subject for a number of colleagues. I could have withdrawn that motion. I was really waiting for the Minister's answer on the link between tax avoidance and money laundering. I thought: then I can withdraw my second motion. But I didn't get an answer to that at all. That's why we're making this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in recent years the National Risk Assessment on Money Laundering has identified money laundering through offshore tax structures as a substantial risk, but does not provide an insight into the scale and specific nature of the problem;]] [[noting that while research has been carried out on how much tax money the Netherlands misses through offshore constructions, it remains unclear what this means for the coherence between the Dutch fiscal landscape and money laundering;]] [[whereas this remains unclear as to the consistency between the Dutch tax system and the facilitation of criminal money flows;]] [[calls on the government to examine (i) the coherence between money laundering and tax avoidance in the Netherlands and (ii) what this means for the relationship between tackling tax avoidance and tackling criminal money flows,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Snels and Mr Grothuizen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31477-46]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u147	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u148	Thank you. Then Mr Bruins of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u149	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the answers. In the first term, he accused me of a good idea, namely to publish annually a list of new churches that are not included in the UBO register. My question is: can I take that as a commitment? I'm sure his answer in second term will make it clear if that's okay. Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. The first is about the categories of people who can access the UBO register. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that additional safeguards in access to the UBO register are necessary;]] [[noting that an amendment has been tabled by Mr Bruins/Van der Linde/Ronnes to ensure that UBOs have an insight into how often they have been looked up in the register;]] [[considers that it may be important for the security of UBOs to know whether their data has been provided to parties other than trusted parties such as government, notary, bank etc.;]] [[calls on the Government to set up the UBO register in such a way that categories of users can be distinguished so that UBOs can understand on request how often their data have been provided by category,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35179-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u150	Mr. Chairman. The second motion deals with how directors of an anbi are registered in the UBO register. How's the flag set? [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a public utility institution (anbi) does not have a final interested party because board members of an anbi cannot benefit themselves in accordance with Article 2:285 (3) of the Statutes and Article 2:26 (3) of the WFD;]] [[Whereas the inclusion of anbi-drivers in the UBO register in the same way as directors of a company that owns less than 25% of the shares will lead to misunderstandings, incorrect information and legal impurity, whereas the UBO register is intended to increase transparency about legal persons;]] [[Calls on the Government to make a clear distinction between statutory appointed persons of an anbi and directors of a company holding less than 25% of the shares when registering anbis in the UBO register;]] [[Invites the Government, together with Co-operative Branch Organisations Philanthropy (SBF), to call on anbi's boards to register the entire statutory board in the UBO register in accordance with the registration in the Trade Register,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35179-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u151	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the Minister for answering the many questions. I have good news for him: I'm not filing my motion. I do not know whether that applies to Mr Sneller, but I found his answer to why it is logical that the budget should be about allocating resources rather than about evaluating policies. But I do have a question about the evaluation of the law on the referral portal. There the minister went a little fast. He refers to the audit that is to take place. I would have read that, but when I read that, I find it all rather numerical. It is about the number of requests and the legal basis for them, but my point is that I want to know how effective this law is, what the contribution is to the fight against money laundering, what we are ultimately doing. Secondly, I would like to know if the law might also be bypassed. Because there is no system of internal fitness, so you can knock on what you want and then you are not sure if the legal basis that is indicated is actually correct. So my question to the Minister is whether this is included in the audit. If not, I am considering tabling an amendment on this point to include an evaluation clause. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u152	Thank you. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Stoffer of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u153	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Minister for answering all my questions. Of course, I am a little disappointed that my amendment did not get the judgment Chamber, but I can live with that. I assume that colleagues may still think otherwise! No, Mr. Chairman, I'd estimate that's the way that judgment is followed. That's why I have one motion. If it gets a different judgment, then my whole evening is a bit fixed, so I'm gonna try. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Implementation Act finally affects companies' and other legal entities' stakeholders, from which the UBO Registry results, public benefit institutions (ANBIs);]] [[Whereas anbis make a major contribution to the general good;]] [[Whereas it is desirable that anbi's should not be substantially affected by the UBO register;]] [[calls on the Government to monitor the privacy implications of the introduction of the UBO Registry for Anbi's and to inform the Court of Justice of this one year after completion of the UBO Registry,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Stoffer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35179-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u154	Mr President, thank you. Thanks to the Chamber, too. As Mr van der Linde rightly said, this is an extremely important debate with minimal attention. That also has a bit to do with the technique. I have rarely had to deal with so many half or entirely technical questions in debates at such a rapid rate. But when I listen to you say a few things about the motions, I realize that it can actually be done much faster. I'll try to increase the speed a little bit. I'm gonna wipe a few little things together that are left over from the first term. Then I will go into the comments and questions that were still there in the second term. Then, of course, I will come to the motions. I had to remain guilty of the question of personal data and political preference to Mr Van der Linde for a moment. For the record, in a church society, it's clear. If you register anything there, you register the religion. In many cases, it does not, of course, affect Article 1 of the Constitution at all, because then it is about chess, volleyball, football or make it up. But I see Mr Van der Linde standing at the interrupting microphone and saying: yes, but the VVD is an association and operates politically and is therefore linked to Article 1 of the Constitution. This choice has therefore been made, because it does not apply to most of the associations. I must also acknowledge that there is some friction between the elements listed in Article 1 of the Constitution and the choice we are making here. I can't completely cover that up either. Mr Van der Linden and Mr Ronnes asked, like Mr Nijboer in the first term and in my view Mr Alkaya, about the capacity of the FIU. Apparently, that concern lives in the Chamber. If we were to get signals that we have a capacity problem there, the cabinet would have to solve it. It's as simple as that. So I will see to it that, in the coming year, with everything else we are going to do, we will see if there is a bottleneck there. If so, I'll let the Chamber know and we'll have to solve it. Yesterday and last week I sat around the table with representatives of the FIU. We have not dealt with this question explicitly there, but I have asked the whole group what problems there are and where help is needed. This really didn't come on the table even after official checking. But if it has to be different and more, I'll get back to you on that. Mr Van der Linde said: it's almost Santa Claus, January 10, 2020 is fast and the minister also has to pass the Upper House. The UBO register follows the timetable of the bill and so it simply depends on the treatment. It needs to be done as soon as possible, but that's what this Chamber and the First Chamber are about. So I've got to go there. I then have to deal with Europe myself when I run from time to time. That's life. Mr Ronnes once again encouraged speed with regard to the AP. I heard that right, especially after he repeated it in the second term. Mr Groothuizen asked about this evaluation and actually said that he would like to see its effectiveness separately. I'd like to promise him that. But I would also like to make a more general point, because many of the motions have said or written: can the Minister not evaluate after one year? I have a positive attitude towards many of the motions asking for an evaluation, but I find one year so deceptively short that I fear that we will have learned too little. I would therefore like to agree with the Chamber that we are really taking a somewhat longer period of time and that I will come back to the question of which parts you can evaluate after a period of two or three years and what is more suitable for three years and for some two years. My experience is that less than three years is, as a rule, too little to have a meaningful discussion. So I'd really like to buy some time. I understand the importance, but I think that we will then have a discussion on the basis of insufficient information. So I take Mr Grothuizen's question to highlight that broader point about these evaluations. Moreover, I am very much in favour of these assessments on each of these points. Mr Van der Linde and Mr Stoffer were still in a dispute about how to deal with the Catholic Church. As a simple and very liberal Protestant, I do not want to go there on slippery ice. I would like to say a few words about Mr Van der Linde's ten-point plan. I have a list here. Of course, I should have given it the recognition it deserves in the first term. Of course, he wants me to make it up to him now, and I'm gonna make it up to him. Of these ten points, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 are included in this list: once, the plan of action already includes. One of them says: walking, running. For points 9 and 10, the starting point is that the government is actually doing so. There has rarely been a ten-point plan that is so generously embraced or in progress as what Mr Van der Linde has done here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u155	I'll be the flag at home. All we need now is the social security number, huh? Then we won't talk about anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u156	Mr. Chairman. Mr Bruins asked for a commitment on the annual publication of church societies. Just for the record, that's public information available at the CJC, so I don't know if I have an additional job there. I would also like to ask Mr Bruins, because I am not sure whether the summing up and sending a lot of bombs to the Chamber will do any good. But maybe we misunderstand each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u157	In the Trade Register you can look up which church societies there are. I wonder if you can also see which church societies are not registered in any other way. But maybe we won't get out of there tonight. But that could be the interesting option that would make Mr Van der Linde's amendment much more unattractive. That's why I'd like to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u158	I'm breaking my mind about whether the first part of that question is in what belongs to Donald Rumsfeld as the "known unknowns" or the "unknown unknowns." I don't know. It seems to me to be a very complicated task if I try to give the first piece of that question to someone at the ministry. I understand the inspiration for further spoiling Mr Van der Linde's idea, but I cannot go along with this argument. Mr. Chairman. That really brings me to the motions, I guess. I'm gonna try to keep the right order. The Van der Linde motion in part No. 45 (31477) is about a higher degree of punishment. I think I have sometimes understood the Minister of Justice that he has a positive attitude towards that, but since I am so explicit in his policy, I think it is nice to ask Mr Van der Linde to hold the motion. Then I will ask the Minister of Justice to respond in writing, even though I can imagine, as a very flawed lawyer, that he would also like to make a distinction in what a higher sentence means and for what. The motion is general. Knowing him, I suspect that Mr Grapperhaus would like to give a specific answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u159	I'm gonna keep her on, but I'm gonna put her to the vote this month. So if the Minister of Justice responds quickly, I'd be happy to take that with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u160	At the request of Mr Van der Linde, I propose his motion (11477, No. 45). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u161	Thank you, I say in the direction of Mr Van der Linde. The motion in part No. 12 (35245) I would like to give a ruling Chamber. That effective commitment is also what the cabinet wants. This also applies to motion Ronnes/Bruins in part No. 12 (35179). He's gonna get judgment, Room. I won't dwell too much on it. I think that has been discussed extensively. As regards the Alkaya/Van der Linde motion on item No. 13 (35245) I have a positive basic position. I'd like to give her judgment room, but just give me a little more time, because we really think we need at least two years to get a good view. If I can explicitly mark that here, then I can give the motion judgment Chamber. The Alkaya/Nijboer motion in part No. 14 (35245) I must advise against, given what I said earlier about privacy. The motion-Snels/Groothuizen in part No. 46 (31477) I can give judgment Chamber, because that has been reported before. That's what I'm gonna do in the search, so that's what I'm gonna do. I am sorry about Mr Snels, because this was clearly overlooked by me in the upswing of all those answers to all these questions. But I think I'm making this up to you now by giving this motion judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u162	Can you give your opinion on the motion in part No. 13 (35245) repeat?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u163	I was already at the motion in part no. 46 (31477), President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u164	Yes, but it is not quite clear yet what you are doing about the motion in part No. 13 (35245) said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u165	The motion in part No. 13 (35245) I would like to give my opinion, provided that I can take the deadline to two years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u166	Okay. Mr Alkaya, briefly, pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u167	I'm gonna change that motion, and then I'm gonna make it two years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u168	We look forward to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u169	Thank you to both proposers. Then I'll be at the motion in part No. 13 (35179) by Mr Bruins. That is, of course, with pain in the heart, but that is where we really end up with some implementation problems. I would also like to start by evaluating the privacy measures. The dilemma I would like to place Mr Bruins on is dissuaded in the here and now or persist for a period that extends to the moment of evaluation. But I know Mr Bruins is in it for eternity, so maybe he can wear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u170	My commitment is eternity. But we could also say that we understand that it is not yet the case at the start, but that the government is committed to building these categories in it as soon as that system gets a nice update. That might be sooner than an evaluation in a few years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u171	Mr Bruins is doing a good job on top of it, but I am going to take another shot at it. What I would like to do is, at the moment that we are going to refine that system, see also the dialogue I had with Mr Ronnes on whether there would be added value. But I was so keenly reminded that this creates problems of implementation and the question of what exactly is going to produce, that I really want to give the technicians room here and then proceed to judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u172	I like this opening.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u173	So?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u174	If I can get a ruling Chamber with this interpretation, I accept this interpretation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u175	It's gonna be very slippery ice. You know the saying "smooth ice is a paradise for the man who can dance on it," but this feels like a bad soup. So, very specifically, I would ask Mr Bruins to hold the motion, but I would add the generous undertaking that at the first possible moment we are going to work on the system again, see if this is technically possible and what it will yield. I would like to add my word that I will inform the Chamber and, in particular, Mr Bruins about the considerations. Because then I do not have to go into the question of which parts of the text I find more or less objectionable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u176	We're not gonna wheel and deal till midnight. I just want hoof or calf.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u177	Moreover, if I tell Mr Bruins that I am going to make his next motion, in part No. 14 (35179), judgment Chamber giving?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u178	Look, I'd hold off on answers, Mr. Bruins, because you're bringing in more and more.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u179	The basket is being filled.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u180	I have to go to Europe tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. So everything I have to give away, I do now, and there I look after the money well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u181	I find the route the minister sketches generously, so I'm holding the motion. I trust that route will be followed as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u182	At the request of Mr Bruins, I propose his motion (35179, No. 13), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 40/94 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u183	Thank you. And eternity sometimes comes faster than expected. Mr Stoffer's motion on item No. 15 (35179) I can also give judgment Chamber. I think he and I can also conclude this debate con amore. Mr President, that brings me to the end of my second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u184	Thank you. Thank you for being here this evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-58.u185	We shall vote on the motions on Tuesday. So much for this debate. I shall close the meeting on 3 December.
