ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u1	The next item is the continuation of the examination of the legislative proposal 35347, Rules for dealing with the problem of nitrogen in relation to nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u2	I give the floor to Mr Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u3	Mr. Chairman. Before I begin my speech, I would like to take this opportunity to offer Mrs Faber, who has just responded so enthusiastically to our new name GO, a GO pen with the motto of GO: realism and action. Then you can get used to our name every day. That's what I wanted to start with. Please!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u4	No, Mrs Faber, I will not give you the floor. Going through the Chamber with objects is not in any case in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Go ahead, Mr. Otten, because it will go away from your speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u5	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Prins-Moderaar and Mr Nicolaï on their excellent maiden speeches. Mr. Chairman. The debate we are having today is the apotheosis of years of mispolicy by the Rutte Cabinets on nitrogen issues. In the decade that Rutte's VVD now reigns, first with the support of the PVV and the CDA, then four disastrous years together with the PvdA and since 2017 with the CDA, D66 and the Christian Union, these parties have established a true bureaucratic jungle of rules and calculation models and created a surrealistic accounting around nitrogen. With many steps and measures, a theoretical false reality has arisen that is identical and unmatched in Dutch history. The key problem with the nitrogen crisis is that far too many small areas have been designated as Natura 2000 sites in the past. The Habitat and Birds Directive has been implemented by the Netherlands, which always wants to be the best boy in the class, much further than was strictly necessary. Under pressure from highly effective green lobbies, the Netherlands has turned into a collection of stamp areas, in which a stamp collector would lick his fingers. And the worst part is that ecologists are now also coming to the conclusion that even the strictest nitrogen standards do not lead to the desired biodiversity, because these stamp areas are not robust enough to ever produce such a result. The country is now in danger of being paralysed by an ill-thought-out policy that will never produce results. This is a completely pointless policy, which only leads to barriers to construction and threatens farmers in their security of living. We are in favour of rational policy. Our motto is: realism, ratio and direction. That is why we, as Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, tabled a motion in this Chamber on 29 October to rationalise the Natura 2000 sites and called on the government to discuss them with the EU. Even though the VVD voted against this, according to Mrs Jorritsma at the time, sympathetic motion, we were very pleased that the cabinet and the Minister of Agriculture had meanwhile made the GO's motion into a cabinet policy, as shown by the Minister's letter of 13 November, on page 5 for lovers. So you can see that as a medium-sized new group in the First Chamber you can actually influence government policy. We are very pleased to see this: realism and decisiveness put into practice. Our question to the Minister is actually more of a call: how is the Minister going to take concrete action in Brussels to ensure that this rationalization of the Natura 2000 sites, which is also desirable by the Cabinet, is implemented quickly and effectively? That is an important solution to the nitrogen crisis. Experience has shown that if you want to achieve results in Brussels, you have to ring the bells hard and repeatedly and hit the table with the fist. A more assertive attitude towards the EU should be chosen. The Netherlands is the largest net contributor to the EU. It's time we got something in return. How is the Minister going to put this into practice? I would like a clear and concrete answer from the Minister on this point. Mr. Chairman. The Emergency Law approach to nitrogen is certainly no wonder of legal ingenuity and is symptomatic of the panic football of the Cabinets-Rutte in the field of nitrogen. Kicking the can down the road, Americans call these kinds of measures. You know, a can on the street always 50 meters in front of you kicking out. It's a nice job therapy, but that's the way you never score. Unfortunately, we are now in this situation because of the years of malpractice and lack of direction. The construction of new homes has stagnated, there can be no more building permits, the farmers do not know what they are up to, very large infrastructure projects are stalling, the economy is in danger of falling into recession and the jobs and the existence of many tens of thousands of people are at stake as a result of this nitrogen debris. Mr. Chairman. We didn't create this mess. This was done under the leadership of this minister and her predecessors and due to the total lack of direction of Prime Minister Rutte. Now we as GO, like some other opposition parties, can choose the path of the least resistance and go along in a populist approach, partly fed by certain more extreme forces that do not hesitate to pressure politicians by all means, but then you are really at the wrong place at GO. First of all, we are looking at the importance of the country. GO doesn't do blackmail politics. But we will not be intimidated. We use our peasant understanding. Mr. Chairman. As I said before, this emergency law is not a good piece of legislation. In the last few days we have therefore made a serious balance between two evils. Are we voting against this law, which makes the construction abruptly shut down, but we can make nice political decorations? Or do we take responsibility and now let the national interest prevail? We are in the situation for years of mispolicy that this emergency law, however bad, is now urgently needed to get construction back on track.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u6	Mr Otten now refers twice to the term 'country interest'. He referred earlier to the need to rationalise Natura 2000 sites, which seem to be also important in the country. Does Mr Otten agree with me that the importance of the country is not only to be able to build more houses, which is very important, but also to be of a clean nature, which is now very much affected and needs to be restored? And that, in addition to a housing crisis, there is also a natural crisis and that it is also in the national interest to take action for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u7	I fully agree with Mr Koole. The emergency law provides for an additional 250 million for nature. So Mr Koole is being served at his beck and call. My point is that the stamp areas are not robust enough to be viable. Many people from all political circles have said that these areas are not robust enough. What we are aiming for is rationalization with larger, robust, contiguous areas. But that may be a little less than the present 170.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u8	Yes, about the rationalization of these Natura 2000 sites. This could mean, for example, connecting these areas, increasing the total area. That's also very rational.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u9	This must be done intelligently, so that there is room for construction, farmers, etc. in other parts of the country as well. What is happening now is that farmers must disappear through areas of 20 by 20 meters. They're just not robust enough. Whatever nitrogen measure you take, there is not enough biodiversity, so in that sense it does not lead to a result. So you have to bring that back as far as we're concerned. I cannot now name all the areas out of my mind, but I would say that the Wadden Sea, the Veluwe, the Biesbosch, the Oostvaardersplassen and so on are robust areas. Maybe you should connect some of them together, but then choose them and take the lead. That is also what I say to the cabinet: take control.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u10	Mr Koole, third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u11	Finally. I note that Mr Otten does not rule out the extension of protected natural areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u12	A rationalization.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u13	Is Mr Koole... Excuse me, Mr Koole will undoubtedly agree with me. Does Mr Otten agree with me that when we look back in history, these stamp areas were never conceived as stamps, but precisely as robust nature? If 2010 had not taken the rug away from it by cutting 70% on the purchase of those nature reserves, it would have been different. Then it would have been robust and we wouldn't have had stamps. Read the advice of the Planbureau voor de Leefenvironment last Friday. Would Mr Otten think it would be a good idea to embrace that advice from the Planning Office for the Environment and then go back to the situation as it was once conceived, so that we can get rid of those stamps?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u14	Well, of course there hasn't been any direction in this area for ten years. A lot of things have happened. Well, then you can say it all has to be reversed, but I think we need to see where we are right now. Life is lived forward, not backwards, in my opinion. So let us see where we stand now and resolve this in a rational, constructive way. We are in favour of nature and we are in favour of biodiversity, but it must be done intelligently. We shouldn't be the prisoner of policy that was ever conceived by Mr. Bleker ten years ago, by Samsom of the PvdA or by me. Let's look forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u15	Sure, but let's learn from the past and learn from where it went wrong. That is why I am referring to the PBL. But can I also just hear Mr Otten say that everything is in danger of falling silent? Is Mr Otten then of the opinion or does he want to create the picture that if we adopt this law, everything will start to happen again immediately from 1 January?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u16	Finally, Mr Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u17	Well, if we don't hire him, it's gonna shut up. You mentioned the construction workers who approached you. Well, I could feel a lot about that. So, yeah, it's not so much that you say everything starts on January 1st. No, in fact, this is an emergency dressing. Something has to be solved structurally. But if you don't, it'll shut down.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u18	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u19	I shall continue my speech, Mr President. For years of mispolicy, we are in a situation where this emergency law............................................................................................................................................................. In order to avoid an economic recession, there is nothing more to do than to establish this emergency link, but it is not more than an emergency link. Mr. Chairman. Now it's all about directing. The time that is now being gained must be used effectively to rationalise and talk to the EU about it quickly. The cabinet now needs to step up discussions with farmers, construction, nature organisations and other stakeholders in order to find a long-term structural solution to the nitrogen crisis that gives confidence to the future, to all parties involved, and which is central to the country's interest. Our message to the cabinet is: take control now. Mr. Chairman. I'm closing up. We have not created this waste of nitrogen, but something must be done now. We are now taking on our responsibilities in the country's interest. GO will support the Emergency Act approach to nitrogen, albeit with the necessary reserves, to avert an economic recession in which thousands of people are going to lose their jobs. GO does not abandon the Dutch economy. We look forward to the discussion with the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u20	Does Mr. Otten think there's a nitrogen problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u21	Well, I do think nitrogen emissions can have certain impacts on biodiversity. The question is, of course, at what level are these consequences? I imagine you have different ideas about this than some other parties. There are also countries that do this differently, but I think you will have to achieve a balanced level of values. Experts will have to assess this. I do not think that the problem is as great as some people suggest, but we are now dealing with the legal reality of all this created PAS legislation that the Council of State has not been able to endure and you name it. Whether the nitrogen problem is there or not, the legal problem of nitrogen is there, so that no building permit can be issued. So we're gonna have to figure that out before we can dive in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u22	I get a very long answer, but not the answer to my question as to whether or not there is a nitrogen problem. But I can help Mr. Otten a little. He recently told the Netherlands at Good Morning that there is no nitrogen problem. So I don't think it's that hard to repeat that here in this house. Mr. Otten says there's a bureaucratic problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u23	Correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u24	I understand that Mr Otten and his group are going to vote in favour of this law. So, in fact, you're just gonna go all the way into that bureaucratic process.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u25	No, then you didn't listen properly. GO goes against the bureaucratic misery that has been created over the last ten years, also by a cabinet that you have tolerated if I am not mistaken, taking a first step, a temporary emergency link, to solve the problem further. Of course, all this could have been handled quite differently. I couldn't agree more. I also see the stories of people from Twente, where they can expand the farm 100 meters across the border in the same area and not in the Netherlands. In doing so, you should perhaps also be able to come up with a more harmonised model at European level. I also ask the Minister to take that with him, but it seems that we are indeed doing this again more roomy than the Pope. In that sense, I can also go with Mrs Faber for a piece.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u26	Mrs Faber, a short third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u27	I think Mr. Otten is more roomy than the Pope. In fact, he is sitting here with three seats, but the voters behind it have voted against Rutte's policy. And what does Mr. Otten do now? He's just going along with Mr. Rutte's policy. How can you explain that? How can you do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u28	Mr. Otten, briefly. Then I'm going to see Mr. Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u29	I'm glad you know what moved the voters. I can assure you that I also stated yesterday on television that I went into politics because I have a great deal of discontent with the Rutte cabinet, including in the economic field. This is also an example of this. Of course, there has been no direction, and that is bad policy. But unlike your party, Mrs Faber, we are not only calling a little on the sidelines, but we also want to ensure that solutions are found now. We want something to change and that thousands of people will not be unemployed tomorrow because of your fine attitude and will be able to apply for WW. That's not gonna do us any good either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u30	In my term, I had asked whether Mr Otten would like to reflect on his visit to the Tower in order to see if perhaps we could come to another consideration with some shared knowledge with the fellow senators. He didn't do that. If he does not want to do so, that is an answer, but will he say so, because then I do not have to go back to that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u31	Well, what do you want to know? We got a cup of coffee from the Prime Minister with a bastogne cake. And we called him in to take control. I have the impression that since then it has also been taken up vigorously. When I see how quickly the answer to all the questions comes and how solid it is being done, I have the impression that Rutte too now realizes that this is really a chefsache and that he cannot leave it to the Minister of Agriculture alone. I would also like to remind you that Minister Hoekstra has played a very good, constructive role behind the scenes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u32	Finally, a supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u33	Then it is clear that not so much has the Prime Minister convinced Mr. Otten but the other way around.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u34	Correct. You got that right!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u35	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u36	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u37	Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Minister, are you able to respond directly to questions from the Chamber? That's the case. Then I am happy to give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Once again, I would like to thank Members for their input in this debate and for the fact that we can deal with this law today. A number of substantive questions have been asked about the urgency of this law. I will deal with this later, but let me start with the fact that it is clear that there is a considerable task to reduce nitrogen emissions for the benefit of nature and to restore nature, also in view of how we deal with this situation in this country, how we weigh nature compared to other social and economic functions. I looked into this in more detail in the letter to the House of Representatives last night, as well as in the structural approach. I shall come back to that later. But let's also go back to where we came from. This is the chambre de réflexion. Today the law is reflected by several members, especially on what others should have done differently. That's part of this. That is all part of the debate, but let us also see where we come from. We have already discussed this subject during the General Political Reviews, but in fact it is the first time that I have spoken to your Chamber in such detail on this subject. I think it is right to go back to the ruling of the Administrative Law Department of the Council of State on the PAS of 29 May. In that statement it became clear that the approach taken in previous years to the problem of nitrogen was not legally sustainable. In particular, this was due to the fact that measures were also entered which had not yet produced any results, which meant that the good state of conservation of nature was ultimately not or insufficiently secured, while the Programmed Approach Nitrogen was the basis for the authorisation of many activities, including activities of great social importance. That ruling led to the fact that at that time there was no real reason to resume the granting of licences. At that time, I had administrative discussions with the provinces on how to deal with this, because I am not the only one involved in this. This is about the competent authorities, those who are required to issue the licences. Those are very often largely the provinces. I am a competent authority and the Minister of IenW is also a joint authority. But the coordination in the cabinet for this subject lies with me. That is why this coordination has been undertaken from my department. From then on, we had to look for a new method to ensure that we could restore the basis for licensing, that it would once again become a legally sustainable system. A number of steps were taken at that time. As has already been discussed a number of times, we had to redesign the model AERIUS, which is used to calculate the nitrogen deposition, with a very expensive word...................................................................................................................................................................................... That was based on the PAS and the PAS no longer existed. So we had to re-establish that system. That's what happened. We put that system in place in September. On this basis, authorisation could be resumed if it appeared that an activity would not have a significant deposition in a Natura 2000 site. But that still doesn't settle a lot of issues. That is why we are talking today about the legislative proposal that is now before us. This bill, I repeat most of the members of your Chamber, is a first step. This is not the solution to the problem of nitrogen. Let that be clear. This is a step which the cabinet believes is necessary to re-establish a number of activities of great social and economic importance. This should always be based on the principle that activities should not deteriorate the conservation status of Natura 2000 sites. That is the framework within which we take action and within which this emergency law has been put in place. This legislative proposal has a limited scope in this respect. Several members of your Chamber have also noted this. However, it contains a number of essential elements in order to be able to take these short-term steps. For example, the proposal has a basis for regulating a nitrogen registration system. This system should help in the short term to enable permits for construction to be restored. The legislative proposal also makes it possible to lay down rules on animal feed under ministerial rules, including in the short term, which reduce nitrogen emissions from livestock farming. This is one of the measures to create the deposition space for construction, in addition to the reduction in the maximum speed. It's not in the bill, is it? The Minister of IenW comes up with a separate decision on this subject, but this legislative proposal lays the basis for taking these decisions again. The additional funds earmarked for the cleansing of the pig are also an existing scheme. That scheme is already open for registration at the moment. I didn't need this bill to make that possible. The legislative proposal also allows, where appropriate and justified, for cases to be determined and under conditions to be determined, to grant a national exemption from the Natura 2000 permit requirement. The current law already has such power, but it is primarily with the provinces. It may also be appropriate to introduce a single regime nationwide. That is why it has been incorporated into this law. In addition, the bill allows for accelerated decision-making on nature restoration measures. At the moment we see that the procedures of nature restoration sometimes take a long time, so that this nature restoration does not actually start at a sufficiently rapid rate. This bill offers opportunities to speed that up. It also limits the Natura 2000 permit requirement to cases where it is really necessary, namely those activities that can have substantial effects on the nature objectives in Natura 2000. Last night, I sent another letter to your room. In it we indicate what the broader embedding of this bill is. Of course, we also received advice from the Council of State on this bill, as always. The Council of State states that this bill should form part of a broader approach to the problem of nitrogen. I apologize for the late shipping and for the fact that you still had to read letters at night, but this letter had to be aligned with a lot of parties, for example with provinces. Those are the competent authorities who must, of course, support this. Sometimes a little bit of time gets past that. I outlined in the letter what the broader approach route looks like. It follows two main tracks: firstly, a robust and realistic nature policy and secondly, the reduction of nitrogen emissions and nitrogen deposition. In developing these main tracks, we opt for an integrated approach, in which we want to make the most effective use of current transitions and policy approaches. This is not entirely on its own. Think, for example, of the fact that we have a climate agreement, an environmental vision, the Water Framework Directive, the vision of circular agriculture, the circular economy programme, the Clean Air Agreement and the NEC objectives. These are all things that you have to assess how to look at in their entirety to make sure that you don't play them out against each other but just get them in the right direction. In the letter we also stated that we will set targets for reducing nitrogen emissions and nitrogen deposition by 2020. We do so in consultation with the provinces and the sectors. We're going to have those values validated by the PBL and the RIVM. By increasing the quality of nature and lowering the nitrogen deposition you can improve the state of conservation of nature. In the end, good nature policy is also the basis for licensing. So this actually benefits everyone. Mr Van Rooijen asked why we did not start preparations earlier. Why did it all have to be so late and why did it all be so ad hoc? You should know that in the last few months I have really reversed the film a number of times. What happened? We had a ruling from the European Court, which in itself did not say that the programmed approach could not be applied. The European Court stated that the scientific basis for this should be improved. We were working on that, too. We had several scenarios, including a scenario in which the PAS would be taken down. That was a far-reaching scenario. In doing so, we had an idea of what steps should be taken. That was so big that it couldn't just be realized. You don't have that alternative all at once. As an example, I mentioned that a model like AERIUS should then be completely redesigned. That sounds simple, but I can tell you that it is quite a job to put that back on. We worked hard on that during the summer vacation. That was also the basis for getting the permit back on track. In that sense, this file is complex. This applies not only to the content, but also to the administration. We have various parties, I have just mentioned all the competent authorities that are always looking at the matter from a different perspective or perspective. We need to stick together to make sure we move forward in this. I don't think I have to say anything about the complexity of society. I will be speaking about this later. There were also questions about the legal sustainability of this law. As I have just said, and with this I say to the Council of State after the elections, this bill must be placed in the broader perspective of the government's structural approach. This approach is aimed at intensifying the recovery of nature in accordance with the requirements of the Habitats Directive, but also at enabling economic and social developments within the framework of the same Directive. The present legislative proposal fits within that structural approach, again, as a first step. By working with target values, we will reflect a path towards reducing the nitrogen deposition, and by linking source measures to this structural approach. The cabinet will continue to regularly inform the Chamber of the steps we are taking. In that sense, this is not a debate that we will end with. This is the beginning. We will keep not only the House of Representatives, but also this Chamber always informed of every step we take to get on with this dossier. It is essential to work on the improvement of nature, including short-term measures. That is why we have chosen to make 30% of the measures announced available directly to nature reserves. Mrs. Prins asked why a 30% and 70% distribution was made. That is because we have to ensure, and with that also have to ensure, that every step we take involves improvement of nature. In any case, there must be no deterioration. It is even more legally secured if you show that a step also brings improvement. It is precisely to ensure that the legislative proposal is legally stronger that we choose not to shift the nitrogen space released at every step from a to b in its entirety. We then ensure that a piece is first removed for the benefit of nature. This allows the remaining space to be used for other activities. In addition, the cabinet has set up a budget reserve for dealing with nitrogen problems and for nature recovery. Of these, the cabinet has now earmarked EUR 250 million for the approach to nature improvement. Where this legislative proposal is aimed at enabling authorisation to be granted again, specific requirements apply under the Habitats Directive. The Directive requires a prior test in projects with potential significant consequences. This should ensure that the natural characteristics of Natura 2000 sites are not affected. Such security shall be subject to high requirements, including the measures and effects taken into account in the justification. The amended Article 2.9, third paragraph, and the new Article 5.5.a on the nitrogen registration system of the Nature Protection Act provide for these conditions. I will come back later to talk a little more about the animal feed regime. Their effects are used to create nitrogen deposition space for the nitrogen registration system. I would like to point out that this is first and foremost notified to the European Commission. It will look in particular at the effects on competition and the free movement of goods. That will be tested. Mr Pijlman asked whether it was true that both Chambers would be involved in the follow-up to the drafting of the ministerial arrangements, so that they would also be placed before both Chambers. He asked when the Chamber could face this. Yes, both chambers will be involved in the follow-up. For example, the animal feed scheme will be put forward here. That is precisely what we are doing to show that the steps we are taking..... your Chamber is asking for the enforcement, feasibility and legality of the measures, and I understand that these are very well-defined steps that you can verify yourself is sufficient to carry on with this. So we're gonna make sure that gets hung. That is not the case with the nitrogen registration system, because we are actually going to start this system as soon as possible, I hope, on 1 January, because we need it in order to be able to make all these other steps possible. Mr Janssen asks why I have not considered making the emergency law temporary. He says: you should actually only regulate what needs to be regulated at the moment in an emergency law. The rest should actually be secured in the structural situation and in legislation and regulation. As I said, the emergency law is the first step as part of the structural approach. The measures included here are, however, not usually temporary measures. I have come to speak more specifically about this, but first of all, as a general matter. The points of animal feed and the reduction in the maximum speed are none of the things we are doing temporarily to make something temporary possible. They do have a long-term perspective in themselves. Whether that will be forever, I can't say either. If we get a situation that is very good in nature conservation, then you can always reconsider that kind of thing. Whether there are alternatives that are better or can count on more political support, you can of course take that into account in your decision-making. But it is not the case that these measures are now temporary in advance. The amendments provided for in this bill will also be part of existing laws, such as the Nature Protection Act, the Animal Law and the Crisis and Recovery Act. They are already being incorporated into permanent legislation. This will also provide instruments that are relevant both for the short and long term to provide solutions to the problem of nitrogen. Of course, we will keep our finger on the pulse to see if those instruments do what they have to do. That is, of course, a requirement for these measures to be taken. The instrument of the nitrogen registration system is a means of assessing the need for continuation. So that's a measure that might be temporary, if you had a broader embedding or a broader system for the things you need to ensure that the state of conservation of nature improves. In the course of 2021, we will also look into this. Is there perhaps a better system in place or are we ready to stop using this medicine? I can't say that in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u39	In the system it could also be that the Minister says: we need this emergency law now in order to start a number of things, but in parallel we are going to work on these structural measures. That's what I keep asking for: start that up at the same time. Then you can also say that these measures are based on this emergency law and that we are letting them flow one-on-one into the structural measures as we know them. Then this emergency law actually ceases to exist at some point, because everything is inserted where it belongs. You yourself say that these are not short-term measures. Well, then, the procedure is just urgent. But if they are structural measures, this would actually include a more structural and more careful consideration of the legislative process. Then you can still get it out of here gradually, let it flow into the structural measures and embed it there, so that perhaps we can have a broader discussion about it with a little more knowledge.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u40	The measures contained in them are already part of the other laws. This is the law in which the brackets, too, I think, are always an annoying word, President-in-Office, in which we guarantee that in those other laws. This is therefore contained in the Nature Protection Act, in the Animal Law when it comes to animal feed measures and in the Crisis and Recovery Act, in which we place the nature restoration measures. They're actually already hung up in the permanent laws. There are also components that are really specific to this law, such as the nitrogen registration system. Of that, I say: I do not yet know exactly how that is going to go. If we're going to get a better alternative there, it's a means, not an end in itself, then it may be that you're going to decide at some point to go and guarantee that in another way, not through these laws anymore. But I can't anticipate that. If I say that this is a certain period of time, I am already throwing away a means that I really need at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u41	Can the Minister indicate that the aim is to move measures we have in this law to structural measures as quickly as possible? We are not going to allow laws to exist side by side if that is not necessary, because I think that is going to be a very complicated situation. Can it indicate that the aim is to allow the elements we are discussing here, if they are proven to be effective, to flow into structural measures, and that they can then get out of this law, so that this law can be finite at some point? Otherwise, things will keep running side by side, which may be unnecessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u42	I have to see what I'm willing to do. I should really weigh that. Because there are simply measures that have a longer lead time and need to be secured here as well. What we're doing, I think that's a requirement. Again, a number of things are already in other laws and they are being hung in them. Where that is not the case, I cannot at this time say that it is temporary. 'Cause I'm gonna throw away something I need.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u43	Finally, Mr Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u44	Finally, very briefly. But I also asked for the effort not to allow laws to exist unnecessarily side by side. Maybe we can come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u45	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u46	Mr Van Pareren.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u47	Measures can last for a long time. What about the 100 km/h measure, from 130 to 100? How long will it last?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u48	This measure is not in this law. I cannot say in advance how long that measure will last or how long it will be needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u49	If it is not in the law, it is not part of the deliberations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u50	I have to remember that answer! Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Janssen asks if I am prepared to apply veils. As I said, we really attach great importance to careful treatment in both chambers. Amendments have been adopted in the House of Representatives which regulate the subject matter. Amendments have not been accepted either. It is ultimately up to the House of Representatives to decide whether or not to do so. However, where they have been adopted, these pending procedures will be applied to the ministerial arrangements with detailed rules on animal feed and national exemptions, including thresholds. As has just been said, this is not provided for in the other regulation on the nitrogen registration system, because it is very important to have the urgency of the introduction. Mr Janssen had somewhat disturbed himself by the somewhat arrogant answer to written questions. That is not the intention; I never intend to give arrogant answers. If it's annoyed him, I'm sorry. Mr Janssen asks if I can indicate the effectiveness and cost of these measures in the emergency law. The three measures announced to allow housing and the seven MIRT projects to continue in 2020 will generate an average of 7.6 mol per hectare per year by 2020. With regard to the cost of cleaning up pig farming, there was already a provision for this, to which 60 million has been added in the context of the Urgenda problem. So for the scheme for the part that is now included in this law, the cost is 60 million. As far as the regulation on changing speed and signs is concerned, I believe that it amounts to 6 to 7 million. But I'm gonna take a look at that, because it's in the bit with the other stuff. With regard to the cattle transport track, too, it has been stated that if this leads to additional costs, we will then provide for a measure to meet this. We are now thinking of a subsidy measure. By the way, it can also work at a lower cost, because many farmers do it even though they can still do it, you can see if it is also possible to add less of that food. In the end, this also leads to a reduction in costs. But we also provide support for knowledge and advice, for example. At the moment when the ministerial regulation comes into force, we will indicate exactly what the amounts involved are. Mr Schalk asked about the scientific justification of this 0.005 mole. What's "zero" was actually the question. It looked at: when can we talk about depositions that are negligiblely small? Contributions of 0.005 moles or smaller fall away in the background deposition. Therefore, it is not necessary to make them eligible for individual authorisation. They do participate in the background deposition and as such they are also included in the measurements, but per project it is so small that this is negligible. Eventually you measure the total effect, because a lot of small things combined can of course also have an effect, but that is negligible if you assume that amount. Mr. Chairman. I think I have answered most of the questions about legal sustainability and the reasons for the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u51	I have another clarifying question about the 0.005 mole. One aspect stopped measuring after 5 kilometers, but the other is calculated infinitely until you finally reach 0.005, and then it stops. Couldn't you use that sober reasoning "after 5 kilometers it stops" in the construction industry too?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u52	If I understand correctly, this is actually the discussion about the distance from which you are going to stop measuring. Then you get to deal with the different types of gases, which also lead to nitrogen. You have NO and NH, so ammonia and nitrogen. They're both spreading in a different way. It's also about whether it's wet or dry deposition. Yeah, I'm all initiated into this whole chemistry thing these days. That has to do with how far you count something or not. That has nothing to do with the 0.005. That is just a lower limit that we have laid down and which has been said: there you can speak of a negligible small deposition for a project, so that does not have to be counted as a significant effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u53	Mr. Schalk, briefly. Then Mr Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u54	I am almost inclined to go back to yesterday's debate. Then it was also about this quantity. Then we know that the manure production of a goose one day is, so to speak, many times greater than that 0.005. Isn't there a rack in that hugely negligible amount?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u55	As far as the goose is concerned, too, it is just how close it is to a Natura 2000 site. 'Cause that's what you have to relate it to every time. Some things may have much higher nitrogen emissions, but they do not fall down in a particular Natura 2000 site. That's what you have to relate it to every time. This also makes it rather complex to say in this discussion whether reducing nitrogen automatically already leads to improvements in Natura 2000 sites. In itself, but you also have to look at what it does specifically with respect to such a Natura 2000 site. That is the great puzzle that must be laid with all these measures. But we must also be able to support it. If you add up a lot of 0.1, so to speak, you are very quickly on a significant effect. That is why we have sought to justify what is zero, which is still legal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u56	I would like to continue with this legal feasibility. Does the Minister agree with me that she is actually in a very special position? Normally, you make choices, political considerations and so on when making legislation. In fact, however, there is only one thing here, namely that you must comply with the requirements of the Habitats Directive, as explained by the Administrative Court of the Council of State. I am very pleased that you have also asked for information. I have also noted that your initial proposals have been slightly modified, apparently because you have carried out an analysis of this legal problem. I asked a question I didn't get an answer to. Let me go back to the PAS for that. We stood here and said: how the hell did it happen that we let that PAS pass? There have been papers published in the newspaper which showed that there were already critical legal sounds at first. Are you prepared to give the opinions of your own lawyers to the Chamber for once as to whether the rules governing the general threshold in the Netherlands or a regional threshold are compatible with the requirements of the Council of State and the Court of Justice?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u57	I wanted to answer the question about the threshold specifically in the block, which is why I had not yet arrived at the answer to Mr Nicolaï's questions. As Mr Nicolaï has read, we have asked the Council of State for information on the introduction of a threshold. The Council of State has stated that, as is the case everywhere, it must be possible to determine whether an activity, even if it is below a threshold, does not lead to a deterioration in the state of conservation of natural areas. That's actually the check question every time, that's what I call it. It is very difficult to secure a threshold that you set at national level. Then you have to take so many source measures to introduce that threshold, that you need to know everywhere that you are right in relation to such a nature reserve. The Council of State said that you can think of a regional or a sectoral threshold, because that is much better. That is also why the cabinet decided that you were able to read that last night in order to work out a regional threshold with the provinces. This is done precisely on the basis of the information provided by the Council of State. And in order to obtain our legal advice, we have therefore asked the Council of State for information.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u58	I still haven't gotten an answer to my question. My question was whether you are prepared to give the opinions to the Chamber for inspection. I would have liked to answer this question: is it not advisable to seek external advice? This is not just a political matter, it is a question of law, in which we do not have to go back into a legal forest and do not have to stumble again over the Administrative Court of the Council of State. Does it not make sense to ask for external opinions and to refer them to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u59	I believe that we have asked for this external advice, namely the Advisory Section of the Council of State. Because we just wanted to make sure that the Council of State believes that what we want is sustainable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u60	That wasn't my question. You have now received information from the section of the Council of State providing advice. You now know how it looks at that. Soon you will be designing something, and then the question arises as to whether what you are designing meets the requirements that the Council of State considers necessary in terms of regulation. You may seek external advice on that Are you prepared to do so and inform the Chamber before we can make a judgment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u61	Then I understand the question. I'm sorry this was a little more unclear at first. The question is whether the legal check is going to be made if we are going to shape the regional threshold. I'm pretty much the best client of the state attorney these days, because we're checking a lot at the state attorney's office right now. As Mr Nicolaï may know, it is customary for us to inform the Chamber about the judgment of the national attorney, but not so much about the opinion itself. This is really part of the closeness of the relationship between the cabinet and the lawyer or the external advisors. The same applies to the legal considerations and discussions in the department itself. That freedom to just do that has to be there. But you always see the end result and you can also make your own judgement about it. So I am not going to make all the legal opinions on this point clear. It is true that we are always in the process of checking whether what we are doing actually holds up legally. We are the first to benefit from this. That's what we want ourselves. I note that the Council of State, in its information, says that, if you take that threshold, and that actually applies to everything, you must first ensure that you have the space to introduce that threshold. So you first have to ensure that you take source measures that deliver something so that you can introduce a threshold. That's always the check question for us. We can't live on the puff anymore. We can no longer think that in the future it will be all right with the reduction. We need to make the cut before we can spend.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u62	How many cubes do you have, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u63	I'm working on the threshold block right now. After that, nature comes. Then economics and construction, which includes living. Then I come to agriculture and the feed trail; we catch them together. Then I come to the questions about the measurements. Then I come to the questions about more specifically the permits, notifications, the nitrogen registration system and AERIUS. So that is more about the technical measures. Finally, I have some financial questions. So I will now move on to the threshold. In fact, I have already said a few things about this in the interrupting debate with Mr Nicolaï. The Council of State has indicated that a threshold can preferably be set at regional or sectoral level. Partly on the basis of the information provided by the Council of State, the cabinet has chosen the regional threshold. Whether and when the regional threshold can be worked out is a question of tailor-made work in the region. That also requires a careful process. For the time being, we will use the nitrogen registration system anchored in this emergency law. This will allow us to determine whether enough source measures have been taken to introduce a threshold and to see how much is being given away. This way we can see exactly if we are not crossing the borders. Mrs Prins asks if I can say something about the planning and exactly how we are going to shape the action. We are in the process of aligning the process and its content with the provinces, because they have an important role to play in this. We must, of course, first create the nitrogen space before we can give it away. Whether and when we can work with the regional threshold, we will look at each region. That's what we're gonna work out in the next period. I don't think there's a single moment when we can do that anywhere. I think you should take that area-oriented approach so that we can get to work in the areas where that is possible. Then we won't wait there any longer. Where we really need to take further action to shape that, we need to do it very carefully. This is something that is really going to be designed in the course of next year. We need to make sure that this is actually legally well secured. Mr van Ballekom also asked if I could give more insight into the threshold and the possibility of working without a permit. He would like to receive more information if we knew more about it. I'll give you my word on that. As soon as I have more insight into that, I will inform your Chamber of how we will proceed. Mr Janssen asks how a threshold value and what he calls an unstable system relate to each other. What's the priority? In any case, a structural approach is needed to keep the whole system stable. The cabinet knows that too and is working on it. In the meantime, we are also working on ways of reducing administrative burdens and bureaucracy, for example through a threshold. A threshold can help with a lot of activities that really have a small deposition, for which you have to apply for a permit each time. If you have a good source measure against it at once, which provides sufficient relief to enable small activities, then that also helps the licence holder and the applicant for the licence. In addition, we use the nitrogen registration system. We know what space is and what we're spending on it. If one does not exceed the other, then it is legally sustainable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u64	Just a quick clarification. My question was something else. The relationship with the system sounds very broad. What matters to me is the AERIUS model and what the Minister now indicates. The Minister says that the AERIUS model will be restored from September. I have noticed in recent years how long it lasted. How do the green and red hexagons of the AERIUS model relate to the threshold? That is a little more concrete than a broad system.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u65	The AERIUS model has been restored, so now it is working with it. It's getting improved over and over again. Early next year there will be another update, so the model is always improved. It's the only model we have. So that's just what we have to do with it. So we also have to make sure that we keep it going well. We process the data on the activities and how they relate to the deposition in AERIUS. That's where it's kept. RIVM also processes it in the nitrogen registration system. They can, and they've done it before. It already existed in that sense. That way we can keep track of what comes in and goes out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u66	My question is even more specific and concerns the relationship between AERIUS and the threshold. A threshold is much less flexible. You can see it for a regional area, although that is a bit of a pleonasm. Then we have the AERIUS model. If calculations from the AERIUS model show that the threshold is in breach of the AERIUS model, what happens then?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u67	If something is above the threshold, a permit must be requested. If an activity is below the threshold, you have to report the activity and the deposition, but since it is below the threshold, you don't have to apply for a permit for it. At the time an activity is above the defined threshold, a permit must be applied for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u68	Mr. Janssen, last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u69	When I look at my own practice in recent years, in practice, I think there are problems with a new version of the AERIUS model changing all kinds of hexagons of colour for applying for a permit in relation to the threshold. So the Minister's answer is that the results of the AERIUS model are leading?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u70	Yes. The AERIUS model determines how much deposition you have somewhere and whether or not that is below a threshold. That threshold should be set at administrative level. Of course, you can get new insights because circumstances change. A nature reserve can improve, so you may get more space again. Maybe it's getting worse, giving you less space. You have to be able to keep making those adjustments. We'll keep that on a regular basis. If improvements need to be made, we will. If that has any consequences for the threshold, we will have to implement it. Mr Koole asked if I can guarantee that the effects are actually fixed at the threshold before the available space is filled. Yes, because that is really the essence of the approach. We need something in there before we can spend it. I just heard that on January 14th the new version of the calculator of AERIUS goes live. So that's the exact date. Mr Koole asked whether it was true that the nitrogen register should first be set up and then a threshold could only be set up. And why hasn't the nitrogen registration system been delayed until the provinces are ready? The emergency legislation lays down a basis for the nitrogen register, and that is precisely the condition for the rapid authorisation of housing. If a threshold is chosen, this can only be done when the registration bank is already operating. That's what you need to calculate that threshold. The urgency to finance housing and the MIRT projects, partly by the provinces, was precisely the reason why the cabinet made this bill. But first we do the nitrogen register and then the threshold, to ensure that we don't spend more than we have room for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u71	The Minister talks about the threshold in response to Mr Koole. I didn't mean to sneak up on him, but I didn't see him getting up too. The Minister says that the register must be introduced before that threshold is reached. Now we have understood the Council of State's information in such a way that this threshold can only be embedded in a truly structurally credible and effective system: in short, in a broader approach. Did we get that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u72	The register can, at the moment when you can actually prove that you are taking measures that justify that threshold on the one hand. That's the revenue side. It has to be there before you can spend on the expenditure side, so you can set a threshold. In order to do that, you do have to take those source measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u73	You said the register could be done, but you also mean the threshold, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u74	Excuse me. The threshold, yes. That was a slip of the tongue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u75	Okay. So that won't happen until the summer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u76	This depends on how quickly one can actually hit those regions with the source measures that justify the threshold in such a region. This will therefore vary from one region to another. That's what I just said with a question from Mrs. Prince. My estimate is that it won't be everywhere at one time. In one area, this is easier to achieve than in the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u77	I shall now give the floor to Mr Koole.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u78	Do I understand correctly that there will be a nitrogen registration system first and then, if necessary, a threshold can be introduced? But they will never exist at the same time?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u79	The nitrogen register is the technical vehicle to make the threshold possible, let me put it this way. In order to enter the threshold, I need to know how much I can spend and I need to register it. If you start doing all kinds of activities at a threshold, it will have an effect, even if the individual activities are small in themselves. All in all, of course, that has an effect. That must also be kept so that you know at some point that the bucket is going to defect. Then we either need to take more source measures, or we need to ensure that we do not allow more activities below the threshold.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u80	So one is indeed conditional on the other. But the threshold may not be effective until the summer, I think, but that depends on the region.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u81	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u82	I hear from the Minister that we should actually start starting the nitrogen deposition registration system. The words are getting longer and longer. That still needs to be started. Then you fill it up and when you have filled it, you can see which activities can or cannot be allowed. In replying to the questions last night, you indicated that you started legalising the 3,637 projects that actually went on illegally after the Council of State had fired the PAS. Then you say there's plenty of room. I asked a question about that, too. It is of course very important for the Otten group, for Mr Gerbrandy and for others who participated in the fixing process. They have said: we are in, because we can now quickly get to work on the construction and the housing. But I hear you need to get the nitrogen deposition recording system in order first. If that's in order, you can figure out what you can do. And you still have to legalize. Then how can you be so sure that these 75,000 homes can be realized? I don't understand. You write that you already know that. That was my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u83	Brief question, please. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u84	This is the issue of notifications. It's all technique: excuse for that. The reports are those that were not previously authorised, but only required to be reported, but may have had an effect on the deposition. What are we gonna do now? For all these 3,300 reports, we are going to look at whether they have actually had an effect. If not, we don't have to do anything about it. Then we don't have to compensate. Certain activities need not have had a direct impact on a Natura 2000 site. Where the activities do, we are going to see what is needed to compensate them. So that's beyond the whole threshold. There we simply have to look at how we can do this at once at a field-specific level. The cabinet has indicated that we will take care of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u85	Let me make a point of order. We've been at it for almost an hour now and we're not at a quarter yet, so this is going to get hopelessly screwed up. I would therefore kindly ask Members to give the Minister a chance to give the answers from a few blocks. I therefore ask Members to save up the questions until the end of that period. You will all be given a second speaking time, in which further questions can be asked. And then there's a deadline for the minister to answer. Also in view of the planned Christmas dinner...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u86	That's important, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u87	... I would therefore ask Members to give the Minister a chance to make a few meters. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u88	Mr. Chairman. Then I get to the block of nature. By the way, the answers to a lot of questions asked in the interruptions are somewhere in the blocks. If they're already set, I can get those answers out of the block again. Mr. Chairman. Nature. I have just said that the problem of nitrogen also shows us that we need to take additional steps to improve nature and nature management. A lot of Members have asked for this too. The Birds and Habitats Directives also require that we achieve a good conservation status by 2050. In this way, together with the provinces, I would also like to see how we can improve the implementation of nature policy, and how we can find ways to optimise the implementation of these Natura 2000 sites. With the package that is now before us, we are already taking an important step for nature in itself. We are going to reduce nitrogen emissions and deposition. And, as I said, this is a first step. Moreover, nature in this country is also contained in strict rules. Strict rules, also in the sense that we are dealing with areas where it is incredibly complicated to achieve this good conservation status. There's not much flexibility in that either. I think that Mr Otten himself has said a few things about this. That is something we are going to discuss with the European Commission. I'll be right back on the timelines. It is also about the re-evaluation of nature reserves. It is not that we strive for less nature, but it is that we deal with our nature in a truly realistic way. At the same time, I want to invest to make that nature future-proof. Because we may have quite a lot of nature, but it is all nature that is not in the best state of conservation. And it is precisely one of the requirements to raise that conservation status. The cabinet is therefore committed to a robust and realistic nature policy. Mr Janssen asks: what about the PBL opinion on making nature robust? I agree: we must ensure that nature is robust. Mr Van Pareren called for a new, realistic, limited classification of Natura 2000 sites, which is not too fragmented. As has been said, the cabinet opts for a robust and realistic nature policy. In doing so, the cabinet also keeps the current policy under review. And we are committed to a robust and realistic policy that also contributes as effectively as possible to improving that nature. That is why we will also identify the possibilities for reviewing these areas, for example by bringing together or reorganising them. Mrs Prins asks: what about Natura 2000 sites which are cross-border? A number of areas are indeed cross-border. Areas which are cross-border may also be eligible for the use of resources to improve the quality of nature. In addition, we are already working with Germany and Belgium. That is what we are building on, also with the provinces. Mrs Prins also asks on the basis of which criteria the Natura 2000 sites are selected for the use of that money, i.e. the 250 million. And she asks whether I also take into account the plans for the Natura 2000 screening and the European Commission's discussions on this. When spending the funds, the link is considered: where can we book the fastest natural gain? That's what I wrote in the letter last night. We just need to bet first on the places where we can actually start making the first profit. Where exactly that is, I have yet to establish, along with the provinces. Because as you may know, nature policy is decentralised. The provinces are the first to deal with nature policy. So I'm going to shape that together with the provinces. And I'll see what comes out of that Natura 2000 sweep. So that's where we'll try to make the match. Mr Van Ballekom also asks if I can give more insight into the use of resources for nature, especially in areas with significant challenges. The funds for nature reserves are also part of the Natural Pact. That already exists. In addition, the cabinet made 250 million available once for nature restoration and improvement. And the cabinet is discussing this with the provinces. We have promised the House of Representatives that in early 2020 I will provide more clarity about the spending, so that we will also gain more insight into this. I will also inform your Chamber so that you can take note of that. Mr Pijlman asks that I consult with the European Commission on Natura 2000 sites. And he asks: why does the cabinet think that I am going to get my hands on that with the European Commission? He says, "Haven't you tried that before?" That's right. Under Secretary of State Bleker, proposals have been submitted to the European Commission to delete areas, as well as to merge areas. That actually happened in a few cases. Several areas along the IJssel, the Lower Rhine and the Waal were then merged into one area: the Rhine branches. However, it is also clear that new proposals need to be carefully substantiated, because account must also be taken, for example, of previous statements at European level. This also means that we must be able to justify very clearly why we believe that certain areas can be better re-examined. That's the process I'm going into with the provinces right now. That is what we need to build on. What is important is what is the state of nature in a given area, what habitats and species there are, or could possibly be at other locations and so on, and exactly what it takes to do that. And what does that mean for those areas that exist side by side? How could you guarantee that better or in another place much better? These are all considerations that we need to make, because you need to get to the European Commission: that's right. That's why we're gonna do it that way. Mr Schalk asks what exactly does the reclassification of these Natura 2000 sites yield? We have just started the analysis of the reclassification, the recalibratement, with the provinces, and that analysis must therefore be carried out with care. So I don't know exactly where I'm going to come out, because that's really going to be the outcome of a process. In the end, it is also part of the discussion with the European Commission on what exactly is going to come out of it. We started that investigation to get more insight into it. Mrs Huizinga also asks how promising it is. You've got to come from a good house, that's right. You have to get to the European Commission, where really compelling questions will be asked as to why we are doing the things we do, but also what the quality of our nature is. That is why it is in itself incredibly important to ensure that we improve the quality of that nature. The better it is, the better you can have this kind of conversation with the Commission, so we should not wait until we have all completed those talks. Mrs Huizinga also asks what period the resources for nature are to be spent and to what extent. I will inform your Chamber at the beginning of 2020 about what we intend to do. The precise effects on nature recovery also depend on the choices made in the use of these resources, but I will inform you about that. Mr Koole also asked questions about the additional resources for nature recovery. When can we gain more insight into this and how are these additional resources spent? I will inform you more about this at the beginning of 2020. We are still too early in the process with the provinces to be able to give a good answer. I really need to go through that with the provinces. Can I already promise that the goal is not to reduce the amount of nature, and likes to do so with better connections and quality, he asks. It is indeed not the intention to reduce the amount of nature. This could also have an impact on that favourable conservation status in order to achieve it. However, we have said that we may need to recalibrate certain areas, in order to create a more robust nature reserve somewhere. We are also going to look at how we can improve the feasibility of these goals. That's what that's all about. Mr Otten asked about the process, what steps I am going to take and how quickly we are going to do it, to shape things in the European Commission. As I have said, I have now begun to analyse with the provinces what the conservation status of those areas is, what habitats and species are all there and what it takes to get them all to a higher level. On this basis, we are going to see if this can be designed more robustly, and we are also really taking a realistic look at the whole nature policy. On this basis, we are making a basis for going to the European Commission. That is a process that we must be careful about. I also said that the more careful I am at the preliminary stage, the more likely that I will be able to have that conversation in Europe. I don't think we should go back and forth all the time, trying to make sure it's good enough, but we really need to put down a good story there at once. So that will take some time, but we have really started working on it, also with the provinces.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u89	Mrs Faber, a very small question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u90	The Minister always talks about the re-evaluation of areas. Can this include reviewing, changing, amending or lowering management measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u91	I'm just thinking what the question is. That we're taking less management measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u92	Less tight.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u93	The management of an area also determines the quality of an area, not just but partly. As I just said: fortunately we also have quite a bit of nature in the Netherlands, but the quality of that nature is not really good. Then you can say that we already have quite a bit of nature, but then the European Commission says, and that is something we have committed ourselves to, that that quality must be raised. We do need to take measures to increase this quality, so I would say that we need to invest well in these management measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u94	Mrs Faber, the last one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u95	May I conclude, then, that management measures are becoming tighter rather than more flexible?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u96	The management of an area must be done anyway. In order for an area to have a good quality, you must do so. It depends on the extent to which this happens per area. I don't know if it's all on the same level, but if you want to have good quality, you have to manage that area, that seems obvious to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u97	Mrs Faber, you've just left, but we're not yet at a quarter and we've been at it for an hour, so we've agreed to give the minister a chance for a couple of cubes. But you weren't there, so you didn't know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u98	I'm almost done with this block. Mr Schalk had another question about the NDFF. It's a bit technical, but that's a database for flora and fauna. That database also contains information that may be of interest to, for example, private promoters to see what their activity does with a particular area, whether it has a certain effect on what they do. He asked whether that information could not be opened up in such a way that others could also gain more insight into it. There is also an exploration currently underway to see how we can transform that database into a system of more open data, so that more people can use it, but it still takes some time to get it ready. That's not exactly round. I could see whether it would be possible for private promoters to have access to this database, in a way that would not create any obstacles for them to request that data. I could check that out. The whole opening up of these data can cost a lot, so we need to make a good balance. I understand Mr Schalk's request to make this more accessible to private promoters, and I would like to look at that. Mr President, that was my block of nature. Then I come to the block of economics and construction. Mr Van Pareren asks if I will continue to talk to all sectors, to see if we can move forward with the policy in this dossier. I'd like to give you my word on that. It may be that I am not the only one who does all that, because my fellow ministers also have discussions with the various sectors. On behalf of the cabinet, I'd like to give you my word. Mr Van Pareren also asks whether I can quickly clarify two issues which are important for construction; the measurements relating to the construction itself and the measurements relating to the use phase, when a house is there. We want to make that clear quickly. As regards the construction itself, authorisation for new construction will be subject to the deposition of the construction phase. The depositions in the use phase have also been estimated and they are part of the reference developments, so they are not attributed to the construction in itself. You can't blame construction for people's lives, say, but the permit does have to include the actual construction. There are also things that have to do with the construction of roads and the cars that are going to drive there, because those are things that also have an impact on such a project. All this has been taken into account in the construction phase. How are the regions with housing cuts to be placed in the emergency law, ask Mrs Prins. In other words, do we all make it through the rules we have now drawn up? If you look at the macro, all over the Netherlands, with the measures we are taking now, we can achieve the goal of next year: about 75,000 homes, including in the residential areas. It is true that this deposition space is not the same in every region. I believe that Mrs Prins asked for the coastal regions in particular. It is possible that solutions within a project may really need to be sought locally. That's happening right now. Some developers say, for example, that if we use more electrified equipment to ensure that this construction takes place, the deposition will be reduced. Sometimes it has to do with the positioning of a project. If you're just doing that a little bit further away, it's gonna matter again. All these things can already be looked at. If that is not enough, measures must also be taken in the region itself to ensure that such a project can be carried out. My colleague, the Minister for Living, has that well on the retina. It is also in contact with the various aldermen who are concerned with housing. In some places this really calls for customization and support, for example from the Ministry of the Interior and Kingdom Relations, which is about this and is already mapping everything well. Is that gonna work anywhere? The aim is that those 75,000 homes are actually realized. That is the number agreed in the National Housing Agenda. In 2018, 79,000 homes were realized. In 2019, 56,000 homes were realized until October, 8% less than in 2018, but based on what is now known, we expect to reach the 75,000 again this year. The forecast for 2020 is that we're going to get close to that 75,000. This is partly due to the fact that there are still projects in the pipeline and that many innovations are being taken into account in the construction sector. This forecast does not yet take into account the November measures taken for housing. With that, we can always take all these steps. So I do not think it is necessary to start calculating less housing now. The aim is that we will also get those 75,000 homes next year. Mrs Prins specifically asks to what extent there are opportunities to build in the border regions. The picture of RIVM is that sufficient space will be available on average in border regions. In the coastal regions, which we were just talking about, it will really be a bit fitting and measuring to get it done. There they look at the possibilities of adapting a project or prioritizing it over time, so that you get more space for nitrogen that you can use at a later time. So we're in all these places looking at the possibilities. Mrs Prins also asks whether I know whether all kinds of construction and infrastructure projects are falling apart and whether I am prepared to look at the possibility of providing for measures such as part-time work. Things that are in portfolio with construction and infra can still be carried out. However, there are risks for the construction and infrastructure projects that will start in 2020. We know that. They are covered by the new licensing obligation. That is why this emergency law is so incredibly important. I would almost say that ensuring that this law is adopted is the best way to prevent part-time work. As a cabinet, we have decided to deal with any business consequences. We are doing this by extending the SME scheme. The State bears the risk of lending to viable companies affected by the nitrogen problem. It makes it easier for these companies to acquire credits. So we have provided for that. Mr Pijman asked when the new speed limit would start and if preparations had started. The new maximum speed will run from 12 to 16 March 2020. Then the new signs will be placed. Preparations have started, the contractors have been approached and the traffic decision will be taken as soon as the emergency law has passed through the two chambers. The costs, as requested earlier, amount to about 7 to 8 million. For this purpose, coverage has been found within the budget of the Minister of IenW. Why not apply 100 km/h everywhere, Mr Koole asks. I heard there were also parties wishing for 80 km/h. Sorry, no, it's 100 km/h. Excuse me. I thought certain people had made other suggestions for the speed limit. The reason for choosing to allow 100 km/h during the day and 120 km/h in the evening or 130 km/h, where this was previously allowed, is that there are fewer cars on the road in the evening than during the day. The effect of the reduction in speed is therefore also less high. People can drive on at the quietest moments of the day, so actually in the evening and the night. During the day, drivers need to pull up and slow down more often in busy times. That in itself leads to more nitrogen. If you have a good flow, you have the least nitrogen deposition. That is why this has been chosen. In the evening and at night you can usually drive better, so that explains it. I can say that we are doing so now and will continue to do so. Mr Koole never suffers from that, I think. Mr Koole also asks if the 75,000 homes can also become sustainable and can be built specifically for low and middle incomes. In addition, he asks whether my colleague from the country of residence would like to discuss this with the VNG and the housing corporations. All the new construction that is now being built is gasless. Soon it will also have to meet the BENG requirements. These seem to be the sustainability requirements. With the funds made available for housing, announced by the cabinet with Princess Day, it is sent to adding affordable homes for low and middle incomes. They'll be part of that 75,000. Both through the housing impulse and through the housing deals there is intensive discussion with the municipalities about adding sufficient and affordable housing. So that consultation is already under way. Mr Van Rooijen, but also Mr Gerbrandy, asks how we want to realize that the houses are actually built by the housing corporations. This is also apparent from the point of view of the landlord levy. They also have their views on this. The housing corporations have 100,000 homes planned for the next four years. So that's also with the landlord's tax. Whether the financial position is sustainable in the long term, given also the challenge of new construction and sustainability, the Minister for the Environment and Living examines, among other things, following the Ronnes motion adopted. The results for the summer are expected to be shared with your Room. Mr Van Rooijen asks me to go into the statement of the alderman in The Hague who says that this law does not solve anything in The Hague, because it only offers room in the east of the country. That was also one of the answers I shared with Mrs Prince. Macro, with these measures, there is room for 75,000 homes. In a number of places on the coast, so also in South Holland, it is fitting and measuring. We know that. The Cabinet and the provinces will do everything in their power to take source measures in the future where it will have an impact on the areas where housing is difficult to achieve. This can sometimes be done by adapting a project in such a way that less deposition is released, which allows it to continue. We're looking at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u99	The housing shortage is, of course, incomparablely greater in the Randstad than in some other regions. The question is, of course, what possibilities does the cabinet have to do, given this law, its utmost to achieve housing there in order to meet the needs of young people, who also want to have a home, and to realize the flow for senior housing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u100	I think this question relates to Mr Van Rooijen's question about sufficient senior residences. Let me just mention the flow question. Allow me to answer these questions at the same time. Soon the Task Force will start Living & Care, including the Ministries of Health, Welfare and Sport, and Home Affairs and Kingdom Relations. It will support municipalities to identify housing needs and facilitate living and care arrangements with the parties concerned. EUR 3 million will also be available for temporary support, for advice and guidance to municipalities. From 1 January onwards, the Incentive Scheme Housing and Care will be adapted to increase accessibility. This scheme also allows citizens and social entrepreneurs to develop forms of housing themselves. That's all good for the flow. Moreover, if this law is not passed, it will become more complicated for senior residences. There is also a real common interest to ensure that we keep flowing throughout that entire housing career; you could almost say that. At the local level, there is the best view of where the need is exactly. This, of course, also varies from one region to another. If we make sure those homes are there, we can actually make the flow, although building senior homes will also cost deposition space. It is good that municipalities are monitoring whether that distribution is correct, so that we can really let it go through.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u101	Is the Minister going to talk about the area that is particularly suitable for housing in the west of the country and the pace at which it can be built, if this law has been passed?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u102	I think I just did that through the answer to questions from Mrs Prins and Mr Van Rooijen. We know that in the western part of the country, especially in places close to the coast, the Hague is therefore also more difficult to deal with. This has to do with the fact that the dune area is nitrogen-sensitive. Sand soil is nitrogen-sensitive, so nitrogen that is released has an impact there. If you build houses, you'll also release nitrogen. With the measures we take, we can realize part of the homes in the west. Whether all this works is also a matter of prioritization. In some areas we will have to take additional source measures to ensure that these homes can actually be realized. The Minister for the Environment and Living is already working very actively on this. She's with the different regions looking at how you could do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u103	Could we be informed about that? Because that's where the housing shortage is highest and the space is the smallest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u104	Yes. I'll speak for my colleague. I will ask her if she can inform the Chamber of its progress. Mr Van Rooijen specifically asked how many construction activities would be possible if this law were adopted and what types of housing would be available where and when possible. There will be deposition space everywhere in the Netherlands. In addition, there are other possibilities to obtain a nature permit. So homes can be built everywhere, although in one place it is easier than in the other place, as we have just heard. When these homes arrive and what kind of homes they are, depends on the local situation. At local level, it is best to determine what the need is. In addition, the cabinet is working on more measures to create more space for the regions themselves, where possible. So I cannot go into exactly where, when and how; that really depends on the local situation. Mr Van Rooijen also asked about senior residences. We just talked about that. Mrs Huizinga asked how to deal with 'cheek eyes', as she calls it, if there is more possible in one place in housing than in another place. Do we have a solution for that? Generically, we are ensuring that measures are taken to enable housing to be restored. How that works out per area really depends on the deposition space there is. The cabinet supports all the regions that need to be helped. So I certainly wouldn't hope there would be crooked eyes. Above all, we must ensure that everyone gets the help they need to get on with this. Mr Koole specifically asked whether companies could take measures themselves to achieve nitrogen reduction, for example by making the business process more sustainable, and how we can contribute to it. Such measures can indeed be taken. If you go further and further in the process over the years, you can make more and more demands on how to obtain a Natura 2000 permit. It could include measures for sustainability, as a kind of requirement to obtain that permit. Compliance with this is monitored by the competent authority, as it is now, and that does not change. In the case of housing, this is generally the state of the province.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u105	Mr. Chairman, I've been holding back until the end of the block. Can I now ask my supplementary questions on these two cubes, nature and economics and construction?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u106	Yes. Your response may be in the second term, but a short supplementary question can of course be.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u107	Sure. At this very last point, the sustainability of companies, the question was about enforcement. Companies, for example, are advised to use electrical equipment in particular, so that they emit little nitrogen. How are you gonna check that out? Do you have to look at every construction project to see if it's working with electrical equipment instead of a petrol generator? Is there an extra commitment to enforcement? I still have a few questions about nature. As regards Natura 2000 sites, it has been said that it will not be reduced, at least that is not the intention. It needs to be robust. Can the Minister promise that it's really not gonna be any less? Then there's my second question about nature. The Minister has not yet dealt with the additional structural resources for nature recovery. Would that point perhaps be dealt with in relation to the issue of finance?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u108	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u109	Okay, then I'm not asking that question here. Then I'll move on to the block of economics and construction. It is said that these 75,000 homes will be made. If there is a problem with the nitrogen space, is there really absolute priority for these homes, possibly at the expense of other projects? I say this with emphasis, because last night's letter said that defence projects should always go ahead, and that there are also traffic projects and seven MIRT projects. Of course, these are all important projects, but when we talk about 'absolute priority', also on the basis of a motion, what does that mean? We would be very much in favour of the housing being given priority at all times. The Minister said about those 75,000 homes that there is a discussion with the municipalities....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... What does that "part" mean? Is that a substantial component? 30% or something?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u110	I'll start with that last question. We recently looked at the share of social rent in the housing deals that are now closed. To be very precise, we are now at 32.6%. So that's a good third of what's now included in the housing deals. Then there is the question of the priority of housing. A motion was passed in the House of Representatives. The cabinet has said: yes, they have priority. We can sometimes see how we can put things together in the prioritization process. So it is not the case that other things are completely excluded, but housing is a priority. We know that. How can the use of electrical machines be maintained? That's not much different than it is now. Now, for example, housing projects also need to be maintained. There are also inspectors, or people from the municipality who issued the permit, to see exactly how the construction takes place. Of course, that is already being checked for. That's not new. In that case you can see for yourself whether the requirements of the permit have been met. Then the point of no less nature. It is indeed the intention that nature becomes more robust. This may bring with it a recalibratement of nature, but it is not so that there is less nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u111	Mr Van Rooijen has a clarifying question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u112	The Minister has indicated that housing is given priority. The question I asked earlier was to what extent the construction of senior homes within the building can be given priority. I had asked the Minister to respond to this. I would like to refer to a somewhat cryptic wording in the note on the report. I would just like to quote the following: "Provisions and municipalities will see how possible criteria for prioritization and reservation can be anchored in the scheme itself'. That refers to Article 5a.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u113	For that, it is important that you have insight into exactly what the demand for senior homes is and what exactly you need. Of course, it's best if you build what you're asking for. You're not gonna build if there's no question. That's what that passage is about: that it's about being seen with those who go over it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u114	Does the Minister recognise that it is important that there be research into local demand, to know where to build how many homes of which type and in particular where to build senior homes, given the demand?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u115	It's a complex issue. We know that. But it could provide insight. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u116	It is always about the distribution of housing, but my question is still whether these homes can get there. I finally figured out what's going on. You say if I look at the macro, the 75,000 can come out. There's room for that. However, regional problems may still arise. Do I understand now that you are going to legalize the illegal projects that took place after the Council of State intervened? If that is done and there are problems, then we should look at them regionally and then we should look for further measures, you say. Do you mean, for example, salad? We can do that now, so those projects could have just gone ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u117	I'm just trying to interpret the question correctly. The measures included in this bill are for housing and seven MIRT projects. We also have the issue of notifications. There are still 3,300 cases that still need to be legalized. I just explained how we're gonna do that. First, we're going to make it clear how big the problem is and where the problems are. That is regional, because it depends on where exactly the permits were issued. As far as those permits are concerned, we are going to solve the problem in the region. That's unrelated to this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u118	Mr Nicolaï, it is therefore separate from the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u119	I don't understand. If it turns out that these projects are dealing with nitrogen deposition, then it goes from the nitrogen deposition space that is under this bill. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u120	Yes, but we are going to compensate them separately with other measures from the area concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u121	So it's not part of this bill, if I understand correctly. Nor is it part of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u122	Where can I help you? Where's the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u123	I don't understand what you're talking about by "off-balance." The deposition registration system will mean what space is available, if we do not want to conflict with the Habitats Directive. If that space is x, then we should also "finance" the projects to be legalized out of that x space.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u124	This bill shows that we can go through the 75,000 homes and the 7 MIRT projects. In addition, there are many other issues that require a permit. That is not just housing, it can also be companies or other things that have a deposition that must also be compensated. That's what we're gonna do with other source measures. They are not in this bill and they are likely to be created regionally. We have a role in that as a Empire. We took it upon ourselves to legalize those reports. However, we do this with other measures than those taken in this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u125	I suggest that the Minister continue her speech. Are we going to the block about readings?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u126	Agriculture. Then the block comes across to measure. We're almost there. Many questions have been asked about agriculture and the cattle feed trail. In that context, I spoke with the Agricultural Collective yesterday. We had a breakfast meeting. That was a good talk. We have discussed, among other things, the plans of the collective itself. The collective is in the process of discussing the results of the consultation, but it has itself indicated that it wants to start working on animal feed, manure use and grazing. The cattle feed trail is in the law that is now before us. I have agreed with the Agriculture Collective that these three measures should be developed in a coherent manner. Enforcement is an important point, which we also discuss there. Mr Koole asked whether it was true that the animal feed measures did not enter into force until about May because of notifications and veils. The front suspension takes at least four weeks. Notification to the European Commission lasts at least three months, so the measure can in principle enter into force four months after this law is completed. Then you'll come out about May. That's right. Mr Janssen asked whether the emergency route could not be better integrated into the long-term route, including the feed measure, because it had a late effect. That is just in relation to Mr Koole's question. The fact is, I can't notify until the law is passed. So I need this law before I can go through all the steps that are needed to make the measure effective. We do not have time to waste, because we already want to achieve part of the nitrogen space by 2020. So I have to get to work right away. We are also really in the process of looking at what matters we need to settle, including in the ministerial arrangement, in order to make sure that we can do this right. Again, you will see this as well, because it includes a veil, so that you can learn about it yourself. It is therefore true that it will not enter into force immediately on 1 January, because I cannot start the whole procedure until this law has been passed. The longer that takes, the further it shifts over time before this measure can have an effect. Mr Van Rooijen asks if I can explain what effects I intend to have with the transport trail. I intend to achieve a reduction in nitrogen emissions by 2020 with the cattle transport track. That could be 1 kiloton. The cattle feed trail will of course have a much longer pass-through after that. It's not like it's gonna end right away by 2020. It can also have an effect for the rest of the future, perhaps even more. Mr Pijlman and Mr Koole have asked how effective, practicable and enforceable the animal feed measure is. Mr Gerbrandy has indicated with some kind of framework that these are the keys to everything we are doing. Is the sector prepared to make these adjustments and how are we going to maintain and register them? The feed measure is currently being worked out. We've involved concrete information from Wageningen University. As I said, we want to develop this further, together with the Agricultural Collective. That is precisely to ensure that the measure is effective. The feasibility and enforcement aspects are important in this respect. We need to take it fully into account. We can do this, among other things, by developing attractive measures as a kind of temptation to do something, but also, for example, incentives, which make it attractive for a farmer to go further. We can also do this by providing advice, so that farmers can understand more about the possibilities in their business. This can lead to a cost reduction for the company in itself. If you still have opportunities to add less protein-rich feed, for example, it can ultimately bring a cost advantage. Enforcement. The farmer must demonstrate that he complies with the standards agreed. We can also look at information that is already available, for example the results of samples of concentrated feed and chewing feed, but also, for example, the amount of urea in the milk. The information contained in the circular guide can also be viewed. But what exactly is the information we are going to use, we will let the Chamber know, because that is specified in the ministerial regulation. The NVWA is the party that will also take over enforcement. That's the agency that does that. We'll work this all out with the sector and the NVWA. That's what we're gonna be using in the next few days. We'll talk later about how we're going to do that exactly and whether it's secure enough. Then there is Mr Pijlman's question. The RVO site contains calculations for the application of manure and phosphate rights for twenty types of livestock. He thinks that is rather bureaucratic because there are many differences. He asks how much this cost now for the individual farmer and for the government. We have a very diverse agricultural sector in the Netherlands. We have been talking about agriculture for a long time, but there are so many things. Sometimes we don't even know exactly. That goes for most people. It is therefore important to strike a balance between taking account of the specific operating conditions on the one hand and creating a simple and workable system on the other. That's the movement all the time. The sector often asks us to take account of the company-specific systems. I understand that, because a farmer who is consciously concerned with less phosphate and nitrogen also wants to see an advantage in the existing regime. I agree that the system can gain in simplicity, with less complexity. That is what we are very much looking at in the rethinking of manure policy. I therefore refer to the simplification and reduction of administrative burdens. However, we must look at this at the level of the overall system. I have no idea at this time of the total cost of all this administrative burden, but I think that we can better conduct this discussion in the review of manure policy. Then there may also be more data available than at the moment. Mr Koole asks what I want with an examination of the empty stables, the exploration of the clean-up in other sectors. In the House of Representatives, a motion by a fellow party member of Mr Koole was adopted, Mr Moorlag, asking the government to look at a fee for clearing the stables, which also reduces the deposition. I am very much looking at how we can shape that. I will come back to that at a later date, but I need to look at the information first. However, we are working very seriously to bring that forward. At the beginning of 2020, the cabinet will also provide more insight into the agricultural measures that are aimed at improving other sectors of industry, except pig farms, as this is now under way. I can't anticipate now whether this is something that goes with it. We have generally indicated that farmers who want to continue to be farmers can go on and that we will help them, but that we will make a good arrangement for farmers who want to stop. We're trying to shape that now. Mr Pijlman asked about the warm improvement of pig farming, how many pig farms would be closed down and what would result in the reduction of nitrogen. Yesterday it was said that we expect it to be between 7% and 10% of the number of animals. It is true that the price of pig rights affects the total of the buy-out you can make. Mr Pijlman said that last year's price was very low and that it is now very high again, but you are simply going to work on the existing regulation. Then you also have to deal with the market conditions of that moment. If this were to be implemented completely, it would result in about two kilotons less ammonia. That quantity is realized when all companies have actually stopped. We foresee that at the beginning of 2021. The PvdD asks why the cabinet has not linked to the law any regulation to buy out farmers. However, we have indicated that, within the framework of the area-based approach, we are looking at how we deal with farmers. If farmers want to remain farmers, while there are limitations, then we can ask them to make adjustments so that they can go on afterwards. The cabinet has promised to help the farmers. Sometimes it may mean that a farmer moves his farm, but sometimes the farmer indicates that he wants to quit. Then we will settle with that farmer. We are doing this in the context of the area-based approach. We are also looking at this with a view to the area itself. So we're talking to the farmers about how they see their future. Mr Koole asked how long it would take for the area from the reform of pig farming to be used to fill in the nitrogen register. Farmers can register until 15 January. Applications will then be assessed and decisions will be issued. Spring 2020 will start with the phasing-out of pig farming. That will be done gradually, because farmers also need time for that phasing-out. If a farmer has definitively stopped, the space can be used in the registration system. I think this will have an effect from the end of 2020. Mrs Faber asked about the stock of cattle feed, about the costs and about the use of roughage. Mixing feed is generally produced specifically for farmers and has a high turnover rate. By the way, there is a transitional period because we also have to preface notifications. Before we've had the Rooms, there's gonna be months in between. We are conscious of measures that involve little or no additional costs for the farmer. That is also an important starting point. Where there are those costs, we see how we can meet the farmers. Rough food is part of the ration. That's what we're taking with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u127	What are the consequences of spreading manure? Because that also affects the nitrogen content in the grass.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u128	Yeah, that's right. The use standards for the application of manure remain unchanged. If the phosphorus and nitrogen content in the manure is lower, more manure can be applied. Indirectly, the feed track can have an effect on the amount of manure that can be run out, but it takes some time for this effect to occur. Once every three to four years, we update those advances. Then it becomes clear how much manure you can drive out on the land. We are already periodically looking at the state of the soil, how much manure you can drive out of it and what this means for the forfaits that we see in it. We carry out this update every three to four years. Mr Van Pareren asks me to be merciful in such a way that there is room for farmers to continue to do their work. So no permits for pastures. It is true that the Council of State has ruled that grazing and fertilising should be subject to authorisation. We have asked the Remkes Committee for advice. Until then, we do not maintain in that respect. The provinces don't either. We await the advice of the Remkes Committee. Then we'll see how we'll react to that. I agree with Mr Van Pareren that there must of course be sufficient room for farmers. Mr Gerbrandy states that it cannot be so, looking at the organic farmers, that they are affected by the emergency law. The measures in the emergency law relating to animal feed apply to all farmers. The expectation is that organic farmers too will be able to cope with this, because they are already consciously working on it. We are also discussing this with the biological sector. The bill contains a target requirement, not a middle one. So I'm not gonna tell them how to handle it. And organic farmers often see what they can do, for example with regard to pastures. But again, we also have that conversation with biological sector itself. Mr Pijlman asked about the initiatives around Schiermonnikoog. I've been there myself, and I've had conversations with the farmers. It's a special situation there. The farmers have agreed with each other to reduce their quantity of cattle, but to go for a higher decrease in their products. At the moment we are working to bring that further. And it also looks at where the obstacles, if there are, are exactly. On this basis, we can consider whether and how financial support should be provided. It has our full attention and we are also closely involved in what is going on there, because we ourselves find it special to see how that is going to be done and how we should deal with it. Mr Pijlman also asked how we support farmers who want to switch to organic or circular and whether I am prepared to give an overview of this. We have different schemes and different tax instruments that contribute to this. The cabinet comes with a package early in 2020, in which we indicate how we are shaping a buy-out scheme for farmers who want to quit, but also what we are doing to encourage the keepers. But I will give your Chamber an overview, as Mr Pijlman, and indirectly Mr Gerbrandy, has asked. The question then is whether the additional funds for the warm clean-up of pig farming will be added to the existing package. Yeah, that arrangement was already in place, so we just pushed that amount up. Mr Van Pareren asks whether I am going to ensure that the land of farmers continues to have the same value and whether a fair methodology is used. The value of the land is influenced by many factors, including the price of agricultural products, the availability of land and the ability to invest. The nitrogen problem will affect some of these factors upwards and others possibly downwards. We will take the expected effects on the ground market into account in the government measures and try to achieve as little as possible market-distorting effects. We cannot fully determine the market factors, because that is a bit about the market, but we are trying to deal with them as best we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u129	Which block are we in now, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u130	I have four more questions in this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u131	And then three or four more cubes?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u132	Yeah, but those are pretty small cubes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u133	Okay. Then Mr Gerbrandy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u134	Mr Pijlman was the first to put forward Schiermonnikoog, but I now hear in the corridors that Europe is going to be difficult about the support given to this wonderful project. Will the Minister respond to this and possibly do something about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u135	This also has to do with the provincial resources available for this purpose. I am therefore going a little over my own policy area, but it is true that there is a risk of a state aid test for this. I discussed that at the Ministry and asked if there are any ways of dealing with it in a different way. Because it is precisely a project that can serve as an example for all the situations that we may encounter later, in which farmers themselves have joined forces to shape this, that is something you absolutely must want. We are specifically looking at how we can do that, and I also said that if we can't do it on the left, then on the right, but please look for ways to do it. Mr Van Pareren asks whether I am going to ensure that the allowances for farmers are market-oriented. In principle, farmers are subject to the same conditions as all other promoters. For the cabinet, however, it is important that we maintain development space for the sector and that we ensure that that is sufficient. Mrs Faber asked why we opted for a warm clean-up of the pigs. Is that pre-ordering Islamization? No, that's not connected. The reform of pig farming has been achieved in consultation with the whole chain, which is united in the Coalition Vitalization Pig farming. They have been involved in the scheme and they also want to see a vital and sustainable pig farming. We are helping pig farmers who want to stop because they no longer want or can. That was also part of the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u136	A brief question to the Minister. Are there many applications for this clean-up?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u137	The applications are running now. I don't have the exact state of affairs right now, but I do know that there are applications coming in. This can be done until 15 January, so we know how many notifications have finally been received.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u138	Would you like to inform the Chamber about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u139	That is what I want to do when the scheme is closed, because we often see that at the end most tenders come in. But as soon as we know, I'll inform the Chamber. Mrs Prins' question on the future of agriculture and the appreciation of the sector. She has asked more general questions about this. I can see that significant steps are being taken in agriculture and that there is appreciation for the sector. Over the past few weeks, we have seen some of this to a greater or lesser extent. At the same time, there are some real challenges for agriculture and for the future of agriculture. We have also set out a direction for this in the vision I have drawn up. Mrs Prins said she still sees so few concrete measures. We have written a realisation plan, in which we have indicated exactly what steps we are all taking or are going to take. I would like to emphasise that this is clearly a long-term vision. Agriculture is very often about long-term investment. Farmers often think not in the short term, but in the longer term. So even if you want things different, or if there are other business models or produce another way, it really takes time. That's what we need to focus on, and that's what we're doing. This is also particularly important in order to ensure that the prospects for agriculture remain, especially for young farmers, because they also want a future. We are working on this, for example by opening up the Young Farmers' Fund on 1 January, which makes it easier for young farmers to get funding if they want to start or take over a business. These were the questions about agriculture and the railroad. Let me now turn to points on measurements. Mr Van Ballekom asked whether the area of nitrogen released is continuously measured and calculated by the RIVM. That's right. The nitrogen register is currently being set up. Once the effects of the speed reduction are clear, the competent authorities may be given the space to manage the housing and the seven MIRT projects. In the long term, the nitrogen deposition should decrease structurally. If that really happens, you could strictly say that we don't need a register like that anymore. But now we certainly need that to determine whether we do not spend more on nitrogen than we do. RIVM calculates the measure taken by law in the nitrogen space and the licence providers use it. The register is therefore located at the RIVM. The RIVM keeps track of it all and so you can also get insight into what's in your area and what needs to go out. With new measures, RIVM calculates the space we have in nitrogen. Mrs Faber also asks about the reliability of the model. She says that there are major deviations in this and that there are consequences if this is not properly calculated. The uncertainty of the model determination of the total deposition is indeed present. However, the impact of an individual project is fairly precise. That is also what the issue of licensing is about. Then you really need to be able to see exactly what your project is doing, and the deposition values are known. At the same time, we are also looking at how we can refine the measurement network, and how we can actually measure everything. That's why I set up a committee. Measuring and calculating this committee is now in the process of doing so and will be giving advice on it very soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u140	Yes, but there are deviations of 30% and sometimes up to 70%, so that's a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u141	Yeah, that's on the total deposition, indeed. But here's the point: if you apply for a permit, you have to look at what your project is doing about deposition in a particular area. We can establish this with more accuracy, and we are doing so with the best way we can now. At the same time, we are also looking at how we can make a possible refinement, so that we can get that even more insightful. Let's see... Then it's about the threshold. Mr Van Pareren asks why we are now imposing such tough conditions in relation to this and in general. In Germany they have a much more generous policy, he says. I'm dealing with a statement from the Council of State. He sees the Netherlands. This statement states that the state of conservation of nature must be improved and that it must therefore also ensure that the nitrogen deposition goes down, because it has an effect on it. How exactly does all this work out in other countries? Of course, they have their own specific situation. They are often also countries that are larger and have more contiguous nature areas. They all have their specific characteristics again. I have to abide by the ruling of the Council of State. That's what we're doing right now. Mr Van Pareren asks me, in conclusion, whether we are also able to continue to see broad lines. Aren't we over-encapsulated? We're not a big country with a lot of activities. We're a busy people. This has conditions, but this can sometimes lead us to have to look closely at the impact our activities have on, for example, the state of nature. This varies from one country to another and therefore also from one situation to another. If the best available techniques are used in terms of measurements and models, Mr Van Pareren asks. The RIVM uses scientifically validated models and measurements, but the committee is now also measuring and calculating to see if any refinements are possible on that model. Mr Van Gurp asked about emissions from livestock farming, but also from industry, shipping, road transport and from households. He asks if it is true that that is the order of most nitrogen emissions. RIVM states that most of the emissions come from agriculture, and then, if you leave abroad out for a moment, from traffic, built environment and industry. International shipping is around 2% within traffic. Mr Van Pareren asks if I am going to make sure that the measurements are still correct. As mentioned above, RIVM uses scientifically validated models and is now measuring and calculating whether there are refinements to be applied. Finally, Mr Schalk asked about the availability of the dates and their openness. Can we ensure that this is clarified quickly? These are data from the RIVM, which also operates as openly as possible. The RIVM is governed by privacy rules, but this has now been decided in yesterday's interim proceedings. The RIVM will therefore argue whether or not additional openness is possible and, if so, where. Mr. Chairman. Those were the questions at the block measuring. I have to take a look, because I'm getting to a block I think I've actually answered a lot of questions about. That's the block about the reports, AERIUS and the nitrogen register. Mr Van Pareren asks if I can make sure that the policy statement is changed, I think, to the policy rules of the provinces by 10 January. He also asks whether we support the Limburg interpretation of the policy rules. On 10 December, all the provinces adopted the policy rules, with reservations from the province of Friesland. He has made the reservation of grazing and fertilizing. The provinces are an independent administrative layer. They are also about their own rules, but we have talked about the establishment of these policies, so that they are the same about the provinces. It is not that I can now impose on the provinces what they must do. Mr Schalk asked what possibilities I see for removing obstacles to the taking up of rights in external netting. Am I willing not to? The agreements with the province on policy rules also give farmers room to develop their business sustainably. This can be done, for example, by using emission reducing techniques. They'll be able to bring their deposition down. That always gives more space. They can use that profit to develop their business. Companies that have previously invested in emission reducing techniques can also use their entire space. The cabinet will take a decision on the taking of the production rights in the case of external salads. We'll inform you about that later. Let's see... I have also mentioned the reports, including the update of AERIUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u142	Mr. Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u143	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the second term, it will be possible for me to put my question very precisely to the Minister. Can it undertake not to create unnecessary barriers in the application of netting instruments by ensuring that there is sufficient sustainable development space for the sector? That's my first question. Then the second one. You indicate that the cabinet will still consider how external netting is going. Can you tell me a little bit more about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u144	With regard to the first, I have noted 'no unnecessary obstacles' and that there is sufficient development space for the sector. That is also the starting point for the cabinet. We need to ensure that development space remains available for the sector. That is the framework within which we make the choices. I understand that Mr Schalk is asking if I can give a look at what that means for production rights. We need to define that very carefully. I find it complicated to anticipate that already, but we know that the development space is one of the conditions for giving hands and feet to it. Let's see... The Moorlag motion. We've had quite a lot already, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u145	I thought so, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u146	Mrs Prins asked what percentage of permits are now still in the provinces and what percentage is now released by this emergency law. I don't have precise numbers and percentages. However, we have already started a number of things in order to enable and maintain licensing. On 4 October the granting of permission was resumed. The applicant has been made aware when a permit is needed and what is necessary to obtain it. On 10 December, the new policy rules for permits for new activities were adopted by Deputy States. With this emergency act, another necessary step is taken for housing and the seven MIRT projects. These are always steps that are being taken to make more permits possible. Let's see... All this has already been discussed. Mr Koole asks whether we agree that the nitrogen register can be filled as soon as the measures are effective. The answer is yes. Mr Koole also asked whether it had been envisaged to fill it regionally through the area-based approach. The nitrogen bank or the nitrogen register is filled with measures and targets from the November package. If local authorities would also like to use the nitrogen bank with regional measures and targets, this can be decided. It can also be used for that. It is really up to the provinces themselves to decide whether they really want to. Who decides whether the securities are fixed before they can be issued in the nitrogen register? The nitrogen registration system shall include fixed effects of fixed measures. The RIVM knows the proceeds of certain measures and therefore determines whether a measure is established. Those measures are additional to the measures necessary to maintain the Natura 2000 values. On the basis of an independent scientific assessment, it shall be established where Natura 2000 sites and their extent are located. Finally, on the basis of the data provided by the RIVM, I determine whether these effects are sufficiently fixed to be included in the nitrogen register. So the RIVM gives me the dates for that. In the end, I'm the one who decides as a competent authority whether it's enough, yes or no. Then there are the final questions on the financial side. Shall I do it right away, Mr. Chairman? That's just a few of them, and then we're done. Then we are talking about the resources for nature policy. Mr Koole asked a specific question about this. I sent a letter yesterday on the resources for nature policy, which also states that next year the government will decide on the use of long-term resources for nature recovery. Mr Koole said 'decisions' could go either way. I understand him when he says you have to have long-term resources if you really want to pursue a long-term nature policy. At the same time, this is not exactly the time when we take those decisions. We have certain moments in the cabinet to do so, but the cabinet also sees that, if you have to take long-term measures, you also have to look at the long-term resources needed to do so. I cannot anticipate the outcome of this, because it really needs to be decided at the regular intervals. Of course, we always have the fixed Spring Note and Autumn Note-like moments when that happens but, as announced in the letter, we know that you also need money for long-term measures. By the way, we have 250 million now. We can really go on with that, I say to Mr Koole, because we already have certain resources in the Nature Pact. This is gonna come up on top of that. First of all, I have to get to work and spend all the resources we have now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u147	Another Moorlag motion has been adopted in the House of Representatives. He asked for additional funds for structural money in the Province Fund for Nature Recovery. I hear the Minister say that next year a decision will be taken on structural funds. That's what was in last night's letter. I would like to ask the Minister specifically whether she is prepared to say that there will be additional, long-term substantial funding for nature restoration, on top of that 250 million, which the Labour Party also appreciates, that this extra substantial funding for that natural recovery can be used at least from 2021, and that a decision on its size will be taken in spring. So I want a commitment that it will be there anyway, that it can be deployed from 2021 onwards, and that a decision will be taken on its size in spring.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u148	I'm a little ahead of the decision-making process. You say that this should be deployed at least in 2021 and that the size will then be specified. The fact that the size is determined is the case anyway. I hope that Mr Koole understands what I am saying: I understand that, if you have to take long-term measures, the resources must also be available. I can hear what he's saying. At the same time, at those moments, like the spring note, I really need to see what the situation is. There are always priorities in the cabinet in other areas, which I know Mr Koole's party also considers very important. I say this in the knowledge of the cabinet that if you have to take long-term measures, long-term resources must also be against them. I hope that I can give Mr Koole some comfort in how we want to deal with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u149	I hear what the Minister says. I'm sure we'll take that into account. There are indeed priorities in other areas as well. The point here is that nature is in a terrible state. The restoration of nature is very important. You gotta start with that fast, and you gotta keep doing that for a long time. The 250 million must, of course, be properly disposed of. If you take the nature recovery a little too much, that 250 million is up at some point. You need to know now that you'll be able to do that in four years. That is actually the nature of my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u150	We do know that we have something to do in the years to come and that all this is not free. Where exactly that leads, I cannot say yet. If you have to take long-term measures, you also have to make sure that is possible. I agree with Mr Koole. This was actually Mrs Huizinga's question. She asked for this in this way too. That's what I think I answered her question with. Mrs Huizinga also specifically asked whether the industry is still in the picture in the further approach. How do I see the follow-up if we continue to develop the approach we have outlined in the letter? The industry will certainly be taken along with it. We have asked the Remkes Committee to advise on this point. We are therefore waiting for the opinions of Mr Remkes to see where we can make specific efforts. Where profit points can already be realised, we will not fail to do so. I'm sure they'll be involved. Then the more long-term path. Mr Van Gurp asked for this too. He said: you should actually give more structural substance to that. Yesterday we indicated that we want to set a target for emissions and depositions in 2030. This requires both a generic and a field-specific approach. We need to formulate a path where we can tell how to get there. We're gonna see how we can shape that exactly. That is what I said yesterday in the letter. Finally, Mr President. Mr Nicolai's final question was: why did we not receive the letters until last night? It is always my goal and aim to inform your Chamber on time. Sometimes that means we'll be late to send a letter. We considered it important to be able to include this letter in this debate. Maybe he could have been sent a little earlier in the day, but there were some discussions we had to finish. We have tried to give the Chamber the best possible information, so that we can have this debate properly. Mr President, I hope that I have answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u151	Thank you, Minister. We shall now come to the second term from the Chamber. I give the floor to Mr Van Pareren.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u152	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was just confused for a second. I heard a big rush about the whole project. I now hear that 75,000 homes will be delivered in 2019 and that the ambition for 2020 is also 75,000 homes. I had the impression that the construction is completely still and that we are in a great hurry to get it back on track. I don't see the ambition of something big coming out of that right now. I would also like to thank the Minister for the good content and commitment of her officials to answering all the questions. I appreciate that very much. There are still a few questions left open. I don't go through all the questions, but I still feel like there are some questions left. I'm gonna do something else, and I'm gonna ask you a few more questions for clarification. You say the construction can get back to work. The question is whether this is the case on 1 January. The second question is whether that means that all licences will be forgiven. Can the construction with these permits start from 1 or 2 January? I didn't quite hear what the threshold was going to be. I understood what methodology is being used. For me, it seems that the threshold on 1 January is not yet known and that construction still has to wait. I wonder whether the construction should work with permits. They go through the county. The next question is therefore whether the provinces will have sufficient capacity to do so. I have already mentioned the threshold. I am very curious about that, because it is very important for the construction industry to deal with it. You have incorporated into the law the construction of houses and seven infrastructure projects. I asked whether this could not be extended to total construction. These are, therefore, other infrastructure routes, and institutional construction. I see that time is going well. I live in the west. I even live by the sea. I always have the feeling that it all blows over and that there is a great chance that it will blow over the sea and not stay on land. It looks like that's what makes house seekers move east, but I don't know if that's true. This may sound historically crazy, but that's absolutely not what I mean. That should have a small explanation. I forgot to ask you a question. The Minister has already indicated that she has spoken with the Agricultural Collective. I know that they will be a lot more relieved when we say that 2.9 billion will be released for activities with which they contribute to the whole. What is the situation with this commitment? What path are we on in that regard? Then there's the verdict that was passed yesterday. Is the Minister prepared to implement this, or is she dependent on RIVM? In fact, privacy is guaranteed for certain parties, but that is certainly not the case for farmers. All the information about them is more than known. Mr President, you spoke to me for a moment because I was talking about the reduction in speed, and in particular its duration. You said that wasn't part of this law. I heard the Minister answer a lot of questions about the costs and time span. This subject was therefore included in the debate. I am therefore making a cautious attempt to ask a question, also because of the coordinating role of the Minister's Ministry. How long will this speed limit last? I still have a few motions. I'd like to offer it to you. There's four of them. The President shall: Members Van Pareren, Nanninga, Beuker, Van Wely, Pouw-Verweij and Cliteur propose the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Minister is going to work with regional thresholds for nitrogen deposition;]] [[noting that the threshold in the Netherlands for nitrogen deposition up to and including the recent past was 0,05 mol per hectare, while in Germany it is up to 140 times higher, namely 7 mol per hectare;]] [[Whereas the establishment of a threshold within current legislation and regulations is crucial to enable projects and activities in the construction and other sectors to be carried out;]] [[calls on the Government to strive for a lower limit for project planning, with a minimum threshold of 1 mole per hectare,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] Members Van Pareren, Nanninga, Beuker, Van Wely, Pouw-Verweij and Cliteur propose the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that (representatives of) the farmers were agreed yesterday in interim proceedings against the State of the Netherlands and the RIVM, ordering the court to take a decision before 1 January 2020 on the plaintiffs' request to provide them with all the emission dates introduced into the AERIUS system and which led to the pie diagram of nitrogen deposition by sector;]] [[noting that the Court of Justice of the European Communities has two choices:]] [[if a positive decision is taken to provide the data within one week;]] [[provide clear reasons for the absence of comprehensive data issuance in the event of a negative decision;]] [[noting that, in various debates on the nitrogen issue, the Minister indicated the importance of disclosure and transparency of data;]] [[Whereas it is essential that government measurement data used to base policies and measures are reliable and transparent;]] [[calls on the Government to use its powers to ensure that RIVM provides the relevant information;]] [[calls on the Government to establish a fully transparent nitrogen emission measurement and monitoring network as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] Members Van Pareren, Nanninga, Beuker, Van Wely, Pouw-Verweij and Cliteur propose the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that uncertainty exists or that emission values already authorised remain;]] [[Whereas allowances granted in the past constitute an important basis for how farmers have organised their economic activities, for example through investments made and planned (long-term) investments;]] [[calls on the Government not to take allowances already authorised as a starting point, or to provide a market-based remuneration for such allowances if there is any skimming,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] Members Van Pareren, Nanninga, Beuker, Van Wely, Pouw-Verweij and Cliteur propose the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the selection of housing and selected infrastructure facilitates part of the construction sector;]] [[Whereas this leads to an undesirable disadvantage for other infrastructure projects and institutional construction;]] [[calls on the Government to include other infrastructure projects and institutional construction in its broadening measures,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35347-G]] [[She's getting No. kst-35347-H]] [[She's getting No. kst-35347-I]] [[She's getting No. kst-35347-J]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u153	Thank you, Mr. Van Pareren. I give the floor to Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u154	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Firstly, I would like to thank the Minister for her comprehensive reply. I would like to congratulate Mrs. Prince and Mr. Nicolaï on the maiden speech. Mr. Chairman. It's obvious we can't go on like this. You can interpret that in different ways. But I will not go into that now, because of course we are not going to repeat the whole debate. We are somewhat in trouble because of the enormous population density. The housing shortage is not solved in this way. You can build whatever you want, but according to the latest reports, we'll be out of 18 million people in 2024 and 19 million in 2029. So that's gonna be a lot of deposition. Then it all keeps mopping with the tap open. In fact, construction is being abused in order to put further pressure on the agricultural sector. Actually, it's to be despondent. It's like this government wants to get rid of the farmers. At the heart of the problem are the Natura 2000 sites with their associated conservation objectives. As long as that doesn't change, it just keeps bloating. It is, of course, insane that a bureaucratic problem demolishes the construction and puts the farmers into the ground. I wanted to leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u155	Thank you. I call Mr Van Gurp.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u156	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for her detailed reply. I've got four things. One: a very short summary of where I think we are. Two: a brief remark of wonder. Three: an observation. Four: one question. In that order. In summary, I say the following, through all the words of the day. We spent years looking away from a problem that was evidently present. Seven months ago, we finally started working on it, incited by the Council of State. Everyone agrees that what is now on the table is not much. But, yeah, you gotta do something. The Minister is actually the only one who seems to believe in it a little bit. Next, this is also part of the summary "Resumé" you can weigh differently. You can say: it is not much, but at least it is something, and we have to do something, especially for construction, so let's vote in favour. Or you say: it's not much and you don't actually do anything for construction, so let's vote against it. Those are the flavors. I can understand very much that you can make that weighting different. But I haven't heard much more flavors in this room. That's where I think we are. What amazes me a very little bit is that we don't have to talk about it in detail. There will then be a lot of derivative debates that seem to have an argument for your own conscience in order to vote in favour. Then we are all going to have debates on housing and then I hear the Minister tell me very well what Mrs Ollongren and Mrs Van Veldhoven's policy is. That happens to be a subject I know about. There are deals and the houses need to be built gasless and BENG, and 50+ homes etc. are being looked at. But if we have all had that, then I think: that is not really the issue here, because there is nothing you can do about it. Actually, I don't think we should be looking for our change in there. We are talking about nature conservation and nitrogen emissions. If you're against the law and you might want to vote for it, you're going to see if you can get some more nature protection and some less nitrogen emissions. That is how I like to do it on behalf of GroenLinks. Then I have an observation. In my opinion, the governments and opposition parties who believe that something is going on with nitrogen, nature and climate are not really about climate, but I would like to say that I agree with them on what needs to be done. There must be a structural approach to the strengthening of nature and to the reduction of nitrogen. That is a large majority of this Chamber. I actually heard this in the very last part of the Minister's reply and in a passage of yesterday's letter. Then I come to my question. If we agree that there is a need for a structural approach in these two areas of nature enhancement and reduction of nitrogen, would the Minister say that the government's plans will be submitted to the Chambers as soon as possible, with concrete objectives, a concrete timetable and sufficient resources? Ruud Koole's question is, of course, real. If you can admit that, it will at least give us the feeling that we are busy. I have considered making a motion on this, and a few colleagues have already been kind enough to say that they want to support it. But I hope you can promise to do this. I would like to see a concrete plan for the improvement of nature and the reduction of nitrogen. It should set the target for 2030 and also how we are going to grow there, which is roughly the measures, how they will be monitored and how sufficient money will be provided. All this does not need to be filled out in a material way. But if you can promise to do this, then this debate has produced something positive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u157	Thank you, Mr. Van Gurp. I call Mrs Prins.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u158	Mr. Chairman. We too would like to thank the Minister very much for the comprehensive answer and for the clarity and clarity that has been provided in many areas. There are two other points that we would like to raise. First of all, these are the concerns about construction. We note that there are already a lot of permits in the provinces that are waiting for something to be done. The second thing we see is that there is a decline in the number of applications for building permits. In other words, construction will be affected. And we are therefore wondering to what extent, when the minister sees that the municipalities are unable to achieve that total number, he is prepared to allocate to other construction and infra projects the nitrogen space released. Another question is about animal feed. We understand that a notification should be sent to the EU to change the composition of animal feed, followed by a veil in the Chamber. However, the question we still have is how the Minister will assess whether the modified feed does not have a negative effect on the milk and meat of such animals in the short term, but also in the long term. It varies by species. We believe that this will take time. Do we have that time? How does the Minister view this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u159	Thank you, Mrs. Prince. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u160	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer. You've gone through almost all the topics, but you've left one. That was the reflection on the fact that we already need the courts in a number of areas in order to comply with our own rules as a government, and that it also often happens that the government comes up with rules for others, you think of the elements of the Participation Act, but it does not apply them itself. I have said that I find that very worrying about the rule of law. Moreover, I can imagine that you think in this debate: well, I'll just leave that for a moment, it might be better to have that debate elsewhere. But it's a point. Mr. Chairman. The Minister said the necessary about the introduction of the threshold and the commitment that we will be kept informed, through the Minister of Building and Living, how things will continue in the coastal area. 'Cause I think that's one thing. I would like to put another argument to that effect. New building of houses, especially when it comes to replacement new construction, can bring great environmental benefits. These houses are made instantly sustainable, they can be made gasless. In such a case, could you also take the nitrogen rules a little bit wider and look at the total environmental gain? After all, we all want it to be built where the housing shortage is highest. The construction contributes very little to the total. Thank you also for the commitment that the ministerial arrangements will also be put forward. It's not always like that. That is an exception, but in this case, I think we all want to be involved. I'll keep a hard head in the feed track. You say you're good at talking to the Agriculture Collective. We appreciate it very much that people think about what they can do themselves. But you also said in a subtlety: the farmer will have to show that he is sticking to it. That is under the supervision of the NVWA. Then we're back in that huge audit trail. I don't know how else to do it, but to expect a lot of it and book the proceeds, I don't know. Maybe I missed it or ran away for a while, but when will the final package follow on from the second Remkes report? I think I understand that you are adding the EUR 60 million to the EUR 200 million for the restructuring of pig farming, so that that is a package that runs. We will also be informed about this. Good thing you're so involved with the farmers of Schiermonnikoog. I like to hear, also through other sources, I think, how that ends. I have made a number of comments about farmers who are actually doing what you ask, namely taking steps in circular agriculture. But they are afraid that if generic measures are introduced for the whole sector, they will still be taken. That's not the point. With the support of the Christian Union, GroenLinks, VVD, CDA and OSF, I am tabling a motion on this subject. First the motion and then the final sentence, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u161	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u162	Finally, I would like to thank you for your commitment that we can get an insight into a brief note on which policy instruments are now available and what means are available to speed up this circular agriculture. Thank you. The President shall: Mr Pijlman, Mr Huizinga-Heringa, Mr Van Ballekom, Mr Van Huffelen, Mr Backer, Mr Prins-Moderaar, Mr Van Gurp, Mr Bredenoord and Mr Gerbrandy proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas steps are taken in the coalition agreement to achieve circular agriculture;]] [[Whereas all farms will have to take steps in the area of smarter feeding, better manure and natural handling of soil;]] [[Whereas many farms have already taken steps towards sustainable agriculture, including organic farms;]] [[calls on the government to take into account progress towards circular agriculture already undertaken by companies in future policy proposals on the agricultural sector,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35347-K]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u163	Thank you, Mr. Arrowman. I call Mr Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u164	Mr President, thank you. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Nicolaï. I had already congratulated Mrs Prins on my first speech. I would also like to congratulate Mr Nicolaï for his sharp contribution as we know him. Mr President, a few more points. Still, more concrete about the AERIUS model versus the threshold. Because perhaps in the second term, what will happen next? Because we know that AERIUS is unstable, we know that with the new update in January things might shift again. What will happen to a project which will soon fall under a regional threshold, based on the then applicable AERIUS model? There's gonna be an update on that model and that's gonna put it above the threshold. So what do we do with these projects? Are they going to continue without a permit, based on the previous report? And how are they gonna count? Is that going to go down and then have to be compensated by others? I don't have the picture yet. Mr. Chairman. Happy with the two-track approach, as announced by the Minister. It is a robust nature, in which it supports the Planning Office for the Environment with the advice given. On the other hand, it is about reducing nitrogen. Which means we have to start looking for win-win situations. The Minister also mentioned it: with other tasks that we already have. I mention one that has bound us in the past: for example, the task we have on the Grevelingen, from the Water Framework Directive. That is not just nature, but precisely from the Water Framework Directive, from the open waters, we have a great challenge there. That's such a beautiful win-win situation. The green goblin has given us both headaches and still does. But it's just the way it is, and where there's a will, there's a way. It's a wonderful project, so let's take a look at it. Today it has not yet emerged that there can also be a win-win situation with the peat meadow areas. Massive emissions due to oxidation of peat. The combination as indicated earlier by the Environment and Infrastructure Council with the buy-out on the one hand and the conversion of peat meadows to nature, i.e. the machining on the other hand, without wanting to flood the entire Green Heart, could make a huge profit. In my view, these are the win-win situations which the Minister is also looking for. We would certainly like to recommend them. Mr. Chairman. Let's talk about the front. The Minister replied to the question as to why this nitrogen register is urgent, but I had not asked for it. I had asked for, for example, the classification of projects. For I do not think that the same bloodshed applies there, and perhaps it could be a little more careful. Mr. Chairman. While we have to keep an eye on the little ones everywhere, a brief comment on the nitrogen on the yard and the construction site. This is, of course, something that the companies, farmers and entrepreneurs on the construction site can do for themselves if we look at the Non-Road Mobile Machinery Directive, which has been in force since 2017 for cranes, bulldozers, demolition machines and so on. It provides for a phase-out of large emission-causing machines. So that directive already applies. Has the Minister, as a coordinating minister, ever considered giving more information on this or setting up an incentive measure? Because with that we can start to book nitrogen gains on that construction site and on that yard. Mr. Chairman. One more point, about industry. She also stopped by, thanks to Mrs Huizinga. Perhaps the Minister would like to talk again with her other coordinating minister on another dossier, namely the Environment Act, about a enforceable revision permit. It can bring enormous environmental benefits if we can require companies to use best available techniques because their permits are outdated. This was mentioned in the Environment Act, but unfortunately after an extensive lobby, it was again written out of the Environment Act. That's a shame, because we can make a lot of big profits with that. Mr. Chairman. Almost in conclusion a single remark about the right engine block. I note that Mr Van Rooijen, on behalf of 50PLUS, is satisfied with a deferred remuneration, whereas Mr Otten has already had his bastogne cake. Mr President, concluding. For the SP, concerns about the implementation of this emergency law have not been removed, especially as regards legal sustainability. That is our opinion, without consulting the national attorney, but having properly weighed the assessment of the Council of State. In our view, the legal robustness that the Council of State imposes as a condition is lacking. That embedding isn't concrete enough. That also means that we will not be able to support this urgent proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u165	Thank you. I call Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u166	Mr. Chairman. Firstly, I congratulate Mr Nicolaï on his maiden speech and on his thorough written questions. A number of these questions have also been taken into account. I also particularly appreciate his contribution to this debate. We thank the Minister for the detailed answer. We have asked the Minister to promote priority for the construction of senior residences. This accelerates the flow on the housing market, which is now blocked partly because there are too few senior homes and seniors continue to live in the home where they have lived for a long time. There is thus a win-win situation when more senior homes are created, allowing places for start-ups and families. There must be a proper investigation to know where to build these homes. We ask the Minister about this clarity about the local demand for senior residences. I shall table the next motion for a resolution to that effect. The President shall: Members Van Rooijen, Baay-Timmerman, Van Ballekom, Prins-Moderaar, Schalk, De Vries, Gerbrandy, Van Pareren and Faber-van de Klashorst propose the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is a need for adequate housing for the elderly;]] [[Whereas an ageing population and an increasing number of older people living at home will increase this demand;]] [[Whereas without a local understanding of this demand, there is a risk that suitable housing will not be realised;]] [[Considering that this information is also needed by the Task Force on Living & Care and the Support Team in order to support local parties in developing home-care visions;]] [[calls on the Government to make the local demand for suitable homes for older people transparent by the end of September 2020 through the study..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35347-L]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u167	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u168	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. I call Mr Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u169	Thank you. I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for the detailed answer, but also the officials, who, like me, have had to do a lot of night work in the last week. But that's part of this whole game we're playing here. I'm still dealing with two things. We're going to put together a complicated system for "I hope I say it right" nitrogen deposition space registration. In any case, it is a bureaucratic system, which Mr Pijlman will find unpleasant. Why doesn't the government now choose to move as quickly as possible to a national threshold where you can get back to work with a reporting system? A national threshold is possible. You explained that, and I agree with you. But only if there are very concrete measures to allow deposition space. One of these concrete measures is that we are moving towards a reduction in livestock. I asked a question about this and the Minister said: we are going to talk to the farmers, and if such a farmer says that he may want to end his business, then that is one of the options and then we are working on it. I fell a bit silent, because in "we'll cooperate on that," I thought: what arrangement is the basis for that? Is that arrangement in place yet? And why hasn't that scheme been published yet? In reply to Mr Koole's questions, the Minister said that there will be another regulation, and we are working on it. Why is there not a regulation as soon as possible which really provides for the buying-out of farmers? Perhaps there are a lot of farmers waiting for that. I still don't have an answer to that. I can imagine something that it's stuck on, but that's actually the most essential question, isn't it? I would like to ask the Minister again: can you tell us a little more about this? Does this perhaps fit in with the very specific story Mr Van Gurp has mentioned? That is what we really need to talk about, because construction needs to be smoothed out now, but later all these projects must be able to continue. So we're not just sitting here with this ghost bill today, but we need a structural solution. As for the direction, which the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has talked about, I would like you to show some direction. Here's what I don't understand. There are parties here, most of them saying that things need to be smoothed out as quickly as possible. Everyone hopes that this will happen if we adopt this emergency law today. I asked the Minister about the illegal projects that have been reported. So there's nitrogen deposition, otherwise you're not gonna report them. So they cost nitrogen space. Of these illegal projects, you specifically said: we are going to legalise them. That's what I said: yes, but it's gonna cost you nitrogen space, right? Where'd it come from? I understood from the Minister that she said: it is not from the measures we put into this law today. But where does that space come from? Do you have a supply of nitrogen space that can then be used to legalize those projects? For this purpose, I refer in particular to page 3 of your letter last night: "Because the notifications by PBL and RIVM have already been included in the basic path, this choice will not have any negative consequences for the development of the national nitrogen deposition next year." What am I supposed to do with that? What's that basic path? Is that the secret jar? I'd like to hear more about that. Thank you, Mr President. Those were my questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u170	Thank you, Mr. Nicolaï. I call Mr Koole.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u171	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his very comprehensive reply. We are discussing a very important subject today. It's about nature recovery. Nature is in crisis. But the subject we have also discussed, which is just as important, is making room for housing. Both are important, not because they have to compete with each other, but because they have to strengthen each other. Yesterday, the Minister also wrote in the letter that the core of the approach to the problem of nitrogen is to work fully to restore and strengthen nature and reduce the problem of nitrogen. So we would like to agree with that core. We endorse that general objective. Both in the written questions and today, we have called the present proposal very lean. It is a first step, but even for a first step it is very thin. We have now received answers and the debate has taken place. Now the question is whether we still think it is very thin. What is important here is that this law should be effective. In order to be effective, we believe that the law should contain an additional package of measures, wider than what is now before us. That's what the Council of State says. In order to be able to implement effective policies, this broad package is necessary, including for legal sustainability. There have certainly been a number of points raised in the debate that we are satisfied with and positive about. The Minister says that there is talk about Natura 2000 sites, but that this should not lead to fewer areas and less area, at most to a re-evaluation in the sense of other design or connection. That's a good thing. If the Minister says that priority is given to housing in the case of nitrogen space released, then that is also a good thing. It has even been said that this space for sustainable housing is freed up and that there is a willingness to engage with the VNG to ensure that a significant percentage of this housing is made available for lower and middle incomes. These are, of course, very nice things that we are satisfied with. The occasional amount for nature restoration of 250 million has already been proposed and is positive. But what else has this debate produced? As the Labour Party, we have put forward a lot of measures in writing, but also today. We believe that a wide range of measures is needed to ensure that this law is effective. One of the measures is from 130 km/h to 100 km/h. It has been said that at least this will be the case during the day. The question was whether it could be anywhere and always on the highways. It was said that it is not necessary at night. In my contribution, I said that every little bit helps. Why not? It also makes it easier. At least it makes making plates simple, I can tell you. Then perhaps the starting date would have been a month earlier, because now we need to differentiate. It also raises the question of how to maintain this. I just mentioned that, too. The answer was that we always maintain. But if you really want this to produce some nitrogen reduction, then there will still have to be stricter enforcement. There has been a Member of Parliament who has said that enforcement is not so important. That is why I explicitly asked the Minister whether she would like to say that she does consider enforcement to be important, precisely in order to reduce the nitrogen deposition. Then about the nitrogen bank, the registration system. It is very important to be able to create space for housing. But the couch still needs to be filled. That's gonna take a pretty long time. Then why not wait for the broader approach that has also been announced? The bill also contains a proposal for animal feed. There's been a lot of talk about the cattle feed trail. That's very insecure. It still has to be sent to the European Commission and it still has to be put forward, so perhaps it will not happen at all. It could be. Moreover, there has been talk of enforcement and control. I do have a number of questions for the Minister. If it were to be introduced, which is still very uncertain, you would have to carry out proper control of it. The Minister spoke just now about attractive means of promoting this. I wonder what these attractive means are. I think you should at least have extra finances to make the control of the cattle feed track real, so that it actually happens. Then there is the warm clean-up of the pig sector. The question has been asked whether it should be possible. If I understand correctly, the Minister says that the real actual effects that will produce can only be expected by the end of 2020. That doesn't even create space to build homes. That is why we have also proposed additional measures such as the temporary emptying of the stables. The Minister also spoke about this in response to our questions. We need resources for this, but the Minister says that she wants to look at it positively, but that she does so through an investigation. So we still need to see if that's gonna happen. I appreciate the willingness to look at it, but it's all very soft. The additional resources we asked for for the warm clean-up of dairy cows and calves must be explored. Okay, we can explore it, and I appreciate that, but it's very soft. At the end of the debate, we also talked about additional structural resources for nature restoration following one of the Moorlag motions of the Labour Party in the House of Representatives, precisely in order to be able to start quickly and sustain it for a long time. I understand that the Minister cannot, unfortunately, make the commitment I would have liked. Indeed, I asked for the commitment that money will be provided anyway, that the size of the amount will be set in spring and that it can be deployed from 2021 onwards. Then I'll come to the following conclusion. This is a very important law, of which we said at the beginning that it was very thin. There are a few bright spots to mention, but the overall package remains very thin. In our view, it really needs to be complemented by additional measures. That is also what the Council of State said. That is why I will advise my group to vote against the law. I therefore call on the government to come forward with a plan of structural additional measures as soon as possible. We have been constructive. We want to do that again. We would like to participate in the general goal of nature restoration and making room for housing, but then there must be a wider package. As it is now, it is my view that it is too thin, but I will discuss it with my group in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u172	Thank you, Mr Koole. Mrs Huizinga has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u173	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the Minister very much for answering the questions. I signed up for three minutes in a overconfident mood, so I'm gonna have to talk fast. Two points remain for my group. Those were actually the main points of my contribution. The first is the structural, long-term provision for nature recovery. Mr Koole has just spoken about this. Mr Van Gurp also came back to it. My group also finds it extremely regrettable that the Minister is not now able to make a commitment on this issue. But she does say that when it is clear that there is a long-term need for nature recovery, there will also have to be money for it. That's what she says. It seems obvious to me that there will be a long-term need for nature recovery. I am therefore free to take the Minister's remark as a very cautious yes. Then there is my second point. We have talked about a good structure to move the nitrogen crisis forward, a structure that goes beyond this emergency law. We have asked whether the Minister is prepared to set a deadline and thus create intermediate targets. Now I read in her letter that I did not manage to do that last night, but I did just during the debate saying that she is going to set a target for 2030 by 2020. She also describes what is needed for agreements and how complicated that process will be. She doesn't say that to complain, but to make it clear what it takes. I would like to ask the Minister again whether she wishes to say that she is committed to this structural process in such a way that intermediate objectives are formulated so that the Chambers, themselves and the government can see whether we are on the road or not. Are we on course, or do we have to do extra things right now? Our vote in favour of the law does not depend on it, but we would like the Minister to make a commitment to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u174	Thank you very much, Mrs Huizinga. I call Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u175	Thank you, Mr President. And, of course, a thank you to the Minister for the clear answers. It was a long debate with a lot of technology, I have to say. The Minister made a clear commitment not to create unnecessary barriers in the use of netting instruments by ensuring that there is sufficient sustainable development space for the sector. I thank her for that clear commitment. On my question whether it would also be possible in this context to say something about reviewing the intention to take production rights in external netting, the Minister has held a battle, but she has indicated that she will certainly look into it. At least that's what I think is a start of profit. Mr. Chairman. I asked for openness on the nitrogen calculation models. The Minister has more or less promised this before, but that has still not been achieved. Data from the National Database Flora and Fauna are also not available free of charge. In her reply, the Minister indicated that there was an exploration and that she could look into it. I think this could be a little more robust. This was further reinforced by the reaction on the RIVM in which the Minister indicated that the RIVM should open up or not. In order to be absolutely clear about this, I have a motion for a resolution. That motion is there because that openness is really necessary. Openness will gain or regain confidence, hence this motion. The President shall: Mr Schalk, Mr Gerbrandy, Mr Van Pareren, Mr Van Ballekom, Mr Van Rooijen, Mr De Vries and Mr Faber-van de Klashorst proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a great deal of discussion on the basis of used calculation models and Natura 2000 policies;]] [[noting that not all the building blocks of the nitrogen calculation models have yet been made public;]] [[noting that licence applicants are required to pay for data from the National Database Flora and Fauna and are therefore not free to have necessary natural data;]] [[considers that full openness should be given to relevant civil society actors and licence applicants, even without prior payment;]] [[calls on the Government to open up its case as soon as possible on the basis of nitrogen calculation models and to examine, together with the provinces and other stakeholders, how, in the short term, open access to existing natural data in the NDFF can be organised as fully as possible for private promoters,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35347-M]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u176	That's a beautiful name. I was getting all quiet for a second. My wife's name is Maria Pieternella, so thank you for awarding this letter. Mr. Chairman. I have not yet received an answer to one of my questions, but it may be that the answer has been given but I have not heard it. Because I went to another meeting for a while. I asked if the Minister could provide a clear schedule of activities in time. This would also allow the process to be monitored. I hope there will be another answer to that question. I am also, of course, interested in the Minister's opinion on the motion. Mr. Chairman. My group is ready to vote in favour of this emergency act. I do not really feel part of a right engine block, as it was just called. I see this more as a horse jump: two steps forward and one to the right. We are not going to support this emergency act because we believe that it has solved all the problems, but because in the opinion of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, this is necessary if various sectors are to succeed. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u177	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. I call Mr Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u178	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for the comprehensive answer to the questions of this Chamber. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats would like to stress once again that, as far as we are concerned, this urgent law on nitrogen does not deserve the price of beauty. It is nothing more than an emergency link that is now needed to prevent tens of thousands of people from becoming unemployed because construction is stalled, and to prevent the construction of major infrastructure projects from coming to a halt, which will put us all in trouble. And that's really bad about the nitrogen deposition, that's what we read in the response. We understand from the Minister that she shares our diagnosis of the need for a more robust Natura 2000 structure and the need to rationalise Natura sites. We also understand the Minister's call for cooperation with the EU in Brussels. We welcome that. We therefore call on the Minister not to allow himself to go to Brussels, as the Rutte cabinet does so often. We call on her not to let herself go, but to make a real effort now for the Dutch interests. The EUR 250 million for nature now available under this emergency law is, in our view, quite sufficient to enable these Natura sites to be rationalised, as the Minister himself pointed out. This is quite generous. Mr. Chairman. As I said during my contribution in the first term, it is today's choice between two evils. Our Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats chooses not to choke the Dutch economy and support this emergency law today, in order to avoid worse consequences of years of bad policy now. As far as we are concerned, after the adoption of this emergency law, the cabinet will be playing in the extra time. This precious time must now be used quickly for a structural approach to the problem of nitrogen, with the cabinet finally having to take the lead to achieve a sound, rational and realistic policy that works for the construction industry, which works for the farmers and which works for nature and infrastructure. Our appeal to the cabinet is therefore: do not waste this precious extra time and take control now. Realise structural solutions with sufficient support. That is our urgent and heartfelt appeal to the Minister and the Cabinet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u179	Thank you, Mr. Otten. Minister, are you able to respond directly to the questions of the Chamber? That's the case. I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u180	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll go straight to the questions that have been asked. I come first to the questions raised by Mr Van Pareren. Can the construction start on January 1st? Well, on parts, fortunately, construction is still in progress. These measures are really intended to ensure that we can keep construction going in the course of 2020. So the moment the order book goes empty, it has to be able to be filled with permits after that. The application for licences may start again as soon as this law has been passed. Authorisation also has a lead time of often six weeks or about two months. Around the time that the permits were also reviewed, we were able to introduce measures in the register, which will also enable construction to be restarted where it is now still. So it will actually take shape more and more during 2020. What is the level of the threshold? As mentioned above, the cabinet opts for a regional threshold. It can also be used area-oriented. This will also depend on the state of the area and what source measures are in place there. That's a process I really need to discuss with the provinces. We have also been asked whether the entire construction can be included in this. This emergency law is specifically aimed at the activities mentioned here, i.e. the 75,000 homes and the seven MIRT projects. In addition, we are, of course, creating opportunities for all sectors in those further processes by shaping a threshold. But hopefully that will also be designed over time. This law really focuses on the issues mentioned in it. There has been talk of the 2.9 billion for agriculture. We had a constructive conversation with the Agriculture Collective. I understand that the people of the Agricultural Collective have now also expressed their support for what we have discussed. In addition, we know that the Agricultural Collective has asked for 2.9 billion. I said: I know that when we ask for measures, we must also ensure that farmers are also able to take these measures. I do not automatically think that this is going to cost 2.9 billion, but there is this institution: we know that if we ask for things, we must also make it possible. That's how we discussed it with the collective. Am I going to fulfill the verdict? I have just answered that question to Mr Schalk's questions. The RIVM must now state what the institute can release and, if not, what not. That's happening now, so that's what people are looking at right now. How long is the speed limit going to apply? There's no way to say that in advance. This has to do with whether there are other measures that have greater political support and that could be put in place, but then it is up to the politicians to decide. It is true that we need the proceeds of this measure now in order to continue with the construction, so I cannot rule on this in advance. Shall I make the motions at the end, Mr. Chairman? Is it convenient to do it at the end in one go? Okay. Mrs Faber has given her appreciation for the bill. I would also like to thank her very much for the debate. We do not always agree, but it was a substantive debate and I would like to thank her for that. Mr Van Gurp has asked for a number of specific commitments, which I am trying to respond to very specifically. In the letter I announced that we would like to indicate in 2020 how the target for 2030 will be shaped. Mr Van Gurp, and indeed Mrs Huizinga, ask whether specific intermediate targets can be set, whether a timetable can be set and what resources are available. I can promise that I will send the plans to the Chamber how we intend to implement that decision in 2020 on how we see that path towards 2030, also setting intermediate targets and how we will monitor in the interim whether we are on the right track, yes or no. Then we already have the timetable. To indicate exactly what resources are included, I find it complicated, because it is also about cabinet periods and it is not just 2030. I hope we're not gonna be missionary by then, but it's a little longer these days, I know that, too. As far as resources are concerned, I'm still looking for some room, but I can pledge to Mr. Van Gurp, and with that to Mrs. Huizinga, that we will shape the path, with intermediate goals, and see how we can monitor it properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u181	I would like to thank the Minister for his commitment, which is indeed in line with what I wanted to hear. I'm glad it's included in the commitment book, but I don't know how that works here. There's no harm in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u182	The big commitment book, like some kind of book by Saint Nicholas.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u183	Yeah, I imagine that, but I'm pretty new in this house and I've only seen one Santa Claus. Let me now turn to the final point. I was thinking about it because you said in the debate with Mr Koole that you couldn't do that now, but that there are moments of full consideration. I know that reasoning, because I have been a political director long enough to know that the moments are in the spring note and in the budget. If you are coming from spring, it could be that the Spring Paper at least discusses the need for multiannual resources to be available on top of the 250 million and how many. At least that will be discussed and then linked to the fact that there is a movement, otherwise we can formulate goals and intermediate goals, but if there is no money for them, it will not succeed. That's the background. I am not trying to get something out of you right now, but to make the commitment to Mr Koole a little more concrete, so that it can also fit into your own system that we have to wait for the Spring Note.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u184	Mr Koole did not specifically want funds to be provided, but he did understand that if you have to do long-term business, which usually also needs long-term funding. That's where I'm trying to find some space.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u185	Can I write down for the commitment book that if we do long-term things, it also includes long-term funding? I'm quoting you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u186	Well, that's crucial. I have also said to Mr Koole: that is a step too far, because there are real moments of reflection, because we often have other priorities too. I know that from Mr Koole and his party and also from you. This is an integral consideration of all kinds of matters, but I have heard your Chamber correctly. Can I interpret it like that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u187	Any last words, Mr. Van Gurp?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u188	Satisfied.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u189	Just for the record, let me get this straight. The Minister says that she cannot now undertake to grant extra money for nature. How can I understand that in relation to the actual amount of 2.9 billion you spoke of with the farmers' collective? What's the deal with that, exactly?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u190	I didn't promise that amount.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u191	You did mention it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u192	No, that was in response to Mr Van Pareren's question as to whether I am going to grant that 2.9 billion. I said that I did not mention any sums in the farmers, but that I understand that if things are asked of them, we must also allow them to do so. That's how we put it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u193	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u194	Then I come to Mrs. Prince, whom I would like to congratulate on her maiden speech. It was also a beautiful maiden speech, because she sketched that we are really talking about people who are uncertain about the situation. I think it's also the strength to keep thinking about that, that it's not pure technique, but we're doing it for people. She asked about the permits that are waiting for provinces. If those permits are there, while more can actually be done, we have set up a support structure to help municipalities or provinces in how they can handle certain permits. We have an advice point BET12, where all this information is present and where questions can be asked about how to handle permits, in order to minimise these situations as much as possible. The more important it is that this bill is passed, because then we can get on with it. In the case of animal feed, she asked how it is assessed that there are no negative effects on livestock, production and so on. Do we have time for that? We have been sitting low about the yield of animal feed compared to what it would yield according to the calculations, precisely because you need time to see how this measure works in practice and how the experiences are. It is also important to consider how you see that in total. We can look at this very carefully, and we are not making very big profits for this measure either, because we need to map it properly. Then there are Mr Pijlman's questions. Why do we need the rights? I think that question might justify a debate in itself. I only note that I am now dealing with this court ruling and that I must and want to implement it. He's still worried about the coastal area. I said that I would ask the Minister for the Environment and Living to go into that more closely. About the new building he asked: isn't that an environmental gain? The point is: when you convert existing construction into renovation, you do have direct environmental gain. In new construction something is not there and then it arises and that in itself already leads to more deposition. Then you should be able to demonstrate that this leads to a reduction in deposition elsewhere. That's kind of complicated because you don't know exactly where people come from and if those houses are being demolished. It is also the case that people now often live together and want to live more apart, which in itself leads to more homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u195	I understand. I just said that we should perhaps be able to look at the new buildings a little more broadly. Even though you're building new homes that aren't there right now, they're probably homes that are much more environmentally friendly than existing homes. You should actually look at the overall environmental impact of this. If we judge it all sec, I know it can't be done, but maybe it's something to weigh for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u196	We'll look into that, but so far there's been an increase in deposition in something that wasn't there yet. We will have to discuss the transport track and its control further, if the ministerial regulation is in place here and if we have specified how we intend to do so. Mr Pijlman also asked when the second report from the Remkes Committee was due. The Remkes Committee indicated that it wished to present a report in December. They have their own lead time and are independent in it. I expect it to be one of these days, but again, I really depend on their own planning. Mr Janssen asked what would happen if AERIUS changed or changed. How should we see this in terms of the thresholds in force and the projects that have been reported on them? In so doing, authorisation has always been granted on the basis of the current situation. So you cannot say afterwards: sorry, the threshold has been adjusted, so you should have applied for a permit. You just have to be able to offer that legal certainty. It is therefore a question of the moment of weighing up and the rules in force. Indeed, we have a common history with the Grevelingen. It's a very nice initiative, if I say so myself. It just shows how things are wringing from time to time. It proved problematic to recover a natural value, because on the other hand a natural value could disappear. I thought that was the most complicated issue I had on my plate. I thought: how do I put that back together; we're doing good things, but at the same time they're problematic. But I think we're gonna get out of this. I have good hopes for that. I agree with what has been said about peat meadows. We really need to look at things in a coherent way. That's what we're doing. In the Climate Agreement, we have arranged money for peat meadows. There are initiatives already taking place. In certain places that goes very well. It's nice to see how provinces work with that. You can make a profit there, too. Why should the categories of projects to be determined now be included in this law? Technically, you might say that this is not necessarily the time to do so, but we have tried to balance it with this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u197	Maybe just to clarify before I get an answer to a question I didn't ask, like I just got. I had a question about the front. A heavy veil on the cattle feed trail has been arranged in the Lower House. My question was whether in other categories, such as the definition of projects, which could be crucial throughout this whole process, you could also arrange a heavy front. In the first period, you gave me an answer by entering the nitrogen registration system, but I had not asked for it. You indicated that it had to be dealt with as a matter of urgency. I can justify that. But precisely the definition of categories, to which I asked in my first contribution and in writing, is so crucial that it would fit in with that. That is why I asked again in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u198	I have the law as it is. That is the framework within which that has happened. The House of Representatives did not amend that. The amendment on this was not adopted. That is why this is the framework within which I do things. A heavy front is also a very heavy agent, I say. I think we talked about that, too. Do I still intend to provide information on quick wins at small construction sites? We look at all the source measures, but we also need to be cost-effective. So we're looking at it. If the construction is low in nitrogen, it is already more likely that it will be granted. If builders themselves can prove that their deposition is lower, this is of course advantageous for the permit issue. This in itself is an important incentive to become more sustainable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u199	Not every construction company is familiar with this or with the Farmer's Heritage Directive, which I was just talking about. This also applies to inland waterway transport, which includes inland waterway transport. Companies should be informed about the directive which requires them to phase out the more polluting equipment in the future, before purchasing new equipment or otherwise. It is useful to start or bring that forward already. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u200	In the regular discussions between the trade ministers and the sectors it is also about developments, about what is going on and what is going on. I imagine this is just part of the conversation. The sectors will then be able to translate this into their own citizens. The last very specific question is about the Environment Act. I would like to leave the answer to Mr Van Veldhoven. I am not sufficiently familiar with this to be able to say anything about it. I come to Mr Van Rooijen and his motion. I'll get right on that. I've just spoken about the importance of flow. That's what we see in housing. I will give my appreciation of Mr Van Rooijen's motion. Mr Nicolai asked: the nitrogen register is very bureaucratic and still needs to be drawn up. During the PAS there was also a registration. RIVM can do that, it's familiar with it. That's why it can be activated very quickly. It actually had it on the shelf, if I may say so disrespectfully. That is why we can actually get that going quite quickly. That, in turn, is the advantage of this disadvantage. Why don't we move to a national threshold as soon as possible? We have just had a debate on how the Council of State sees a national threshold. He says that there must be so many measures, that you must be sure that the good conservation status is promoted and certainly not reduced. To be sure, you need to take so many source measures at the same time at this time, that in time and in size it will really be difficult. When you consider how quickly you can introduce certain source measures and realize that things often have a lead time of one to two years, you have to look for much faster opportunities to do so. That is what we are doing now with a regional threshold.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u201	I understand there's a need to act quickly. You can move on, because the law's been fixed, like I said. So that's gonna happen later. The question that came to my mind is: why don't you come up with that national threshold, indeed embedded in what the Council of State requires, namely a whole package of measures? I have told you that one of those measures could be that you are making a good arrangement to buy out the farmers. It is still not there, when you know for seven months that the PAS is no longer working and has already been able to think about something that could replace it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u202	At the moment there is a warm reorganisation of pig farming. I said that I would like to give an insight into the design of the voluntary buy-out of companies that want to quit very soon. They also include measures which cannot be taken very quickly. I have just outlined the path of the reform of pig farming. This type of larger scheme often has to pass a European Union State aid test and then be accepted. It'll take time. We have opted for measures that we can quickly introduce at regional level, so that a threshold can be quickly established.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u203	Mr. Nicolaï, the last one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u204	But the fact that it's going to take time is all the more reason to start, I'd say. I just don't hear you say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u205	That suggests that we haven't done anything at all. I'm really throwing that far from me. All those people who have just been congratulated have really worked very hard to get on with this dossier. That's not easy. It is a complex dossier, not only content, but also administrative. So I would like to throw that suggestion far from my point of view. You may call me on it, but there's been a lot of hard work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u206	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u207	Mr Nicolaï also asks if I have a stock of nitrogen on the shelf to do those legalizations. No, I don't. I just explained how we're gonna do the process with the notifications. Where the nitrogen space costs, we take on the task and responsibility to compensate for that nitrogen space. That's what needs to happen, we know. So we're gonna do it, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u208	Maybe just for clarity, even for the Chamber. 3,600 projects were reported once. There was no problem with that at the time, because they fell under the then PAS. If they're reported, they'll have nitrogen deposition. You're gonna have to get that from somewhere, right? You say that you will be looking for compensatory measures, but if I act as a lawyer for one of those companies and see that there is a permit for housing, but not for that company, then you have a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u209	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u210	My question is: how are you going to solve that problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u211	I have already tried a few times to explain how we are going to do this: by taking measures to reduce nitrogen emissions and thereby compensate for the cases that are reported to have that deposition. Because we know that measures will have to be taken to compensate for this. If you ask me exactly what measures I am going to take in these areas, I cannot answer that. That is so specific, we really need to look at that area ourselves. We need to look at how big the problem is, because these 3,600 reports are spread all over the Netherlands and it can vary enormously from one region to another whether it has an effect or not. So we have to establish that first. Then we look at the amount to be compensated in such an area and what measures we are going to take there. But we're gonna get to work on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u212	Now, I'm afraid, we're going to repeat ourselves. Carry on, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u213	I would also like to congratulate Mr Nicolaï on his maiden speech on this subject. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to Mr Koole. He has tried very meticulously to justify how he weighed the debate: which elements he appreciated and which elements he found insufficient. He has noted a number of things, which I have indeed said. In particular, in the area of control, he considers that matters are still insufficient. This also applies to the pace of certain cases, such as the reorganisation of pig farming, which will not produce anything until the end of 2020. Especially about the money... I was trying to do a kind of dance with Mr Koole, but I do not think that waltz has yet been completely completed; let me put it this way. He said, "Just come up with a plan for how you're gonna shape all this." I have just indicated how I intend to do this, partly in response to Mrs Huizinga's questions. I thank Mr Koole for having conducted the debate so meticulously and I thank him for the way he has summarised it. I have also heard very well that he said that his group remains in the debate constructively. I also heard this from the GroenLinks spokesperson, who said so. At least thank you for that attitude. I would also like to emphasise that. Then I come to Mrs Huizinga. I've just gone over the structure. She asked about the long-term structural funds. In replying to Mr Koole's questions, I indicated how we intend to deal with this. Mr Schalk asked to monitor the activities over time. We will. That's part of the whole process: how is it going, how is it going right now? We will keep the Chamber regularly informed of this. You are not yet rid of me, and I am not afraid of my successors, because this dossier will continue. Finally, I come to Mr Otten, who said that I should not be allowed to be shipped off in Europe. Of course, we are always very motivated to defend our country's interests in Europe. It is always up to your Chamber to assess whether that has been sufficient or not, but we are going for it. Then I'll get to the motions. I'll see if I have them all. I have them until the motion under letter "M." Is that correct?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u214	Yeah, up to and including M.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u215	The first motion, under letter G, by Mr Van Pareren, calls for a threshold of at least 1 mole per hectare. I have just explained in the debate that we are going for a regional threshold, and 1 mole is really a very high threshold. You must have a lot of source measures against that. We're not gonna settle that generically now, so I advise against this motion. Then the motion under letter H. I've already reported that we've set up the Advisory College on Measurement and Calculating Nitrogen. That is already working to see how these measurements are now running and where sophistication is possible. This motion requires two things. The first is to provide RIVM with the relevant data. I already promised. The RIVM will look at this, where it can, and if it can't, it will deviate from that motivated. That's exactly what the welfare judge asked. The second is to achieve a fully transparent measurement and monitoring network. For that I have set up the Advisory College on Measurement and Calculation. In this way this motion is actually superfluous and unnecessary motions I usually advise against. Then the motion under letter I: authorized remains authorized. This is a discussion about the policy rules of the provinces. The provinces themselves have established policy rules; they have all done so, including Friesland, but with a small reservation. This motion calls for the policy rules to be opened up, to say that authorised allowances should not be reduced and, if so, to be reimbursed. That breaks all the agreements the provinces have now made themselves, so I have to discourage this motion. The motion under the letter "J" is about a debate that we have had with each other. It is not the case that the cabinet does not want other projects to go ahead, on the contrary; that is why there are also source measures and an area-based approach. But to say in advance that other infrastructure projects and institutional construction must become activities within these expanding measures goes too far. There are other sectors and things that are important. With this motion we would build in a new intermediate priority compared to what we had already mentioned in the bill. We are not going to give any further priority to what matters are of priority. These things can be realised when there is, for example, a threshold or within an area-oriented process, but this is too absolute, so I must discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u216	I need to check my papers, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u217	You'll get a third term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u218	I would like to ask a few more questions about the motion for a resolution, which is still pending. Your answer is clear, Minister. If the motion is changed in the sense that you are still in contact with the provinces, including through the IPO, are you prepared to keep this issue on the agenda?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u219	No. The provinces are about their own policies. However, we have had intensive contacts and discussions to ensure that the policy rules become uniform, because we also did not want differences to exist between the different levels of government. This discussion has led to the adoption of policy rules by all provinces. I'm not going to argue with the provinces again. It's really been in all the intensity in those conversations. I'm not gonna put anything in that again. Then there is the motion under letter K of Mr Pijlman and other Members. It calls for future policy proposals on the agricultural sector to include steps towards circular agriculture that companies have already undertaken. That's in line with the cabinet's ideas, so this motion I can give Chamber judgment. Then the motion-Van Rooijen c.s. under letter L. During the debate, we have already talked about the importance of flowing into the housing market. I've said it's still quite complex to determine exactly what it's in. This motion calls for a map of this in order to be able to say more about it. This motion is also in the area of Mr van Environment and Mr Wonen, but I understand that she is prepared to launch that investigation if this motion is adopted. This motion can therefore be judged by Chamber. The motion under letter M is about the NDFF. It's a bit technical, but we talked about this in the debate. This is about the existing nature data: can access it? Indeed, I was already trying to see what would be necessary for that. In fact, this motion goes a step further by saying that private promoters should be able to have as full open access as possible. I did a little checking, but I could give that judge room. I think I have come to the end of the motions that have been tabled. Can I just say one last word?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u220	Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u221	We almost got to the end of the year. It's been intensive days and weeks for everyone. I very much appreciate that this Chamber has been willing to deal with this bill in every way. I also appreciate the fact that there is really wide-ranging consideration of the issue. Not everyone may be able to support this bill, but I have heard that everyone is aware that this is a theme that affects society as a whole and that there is and remains a willingness to continue talking about it with the Cabinet. There is nothing left for me but to wish you very good days and also a little rest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u222	Thank you, Minister. Of course, we wish you the same as Room. We also have great respect for the way in which you have held the debate these two days.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u223	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. I propose that the legislative proposal be voted on today at the end of the sitting. Finally, at the end of the sitting, I propose that we also vote on the motions for resolutions tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-eerstekamer-20.u224	I'm suspending the dinner break meeting until 8:00. Dinner will be ready for you from 6.30 p.m. After the dinner break, the votes will take place.
