ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u1	The next item is the debate on discrimination in the housing market. I welcome the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations and give the floor to Mr Gijs van Dijk on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is the last debate this evening, but perhaps also today's most important debate. After all, discrimination in the Netherlands must be dealt with hard at all times. We see it on the labour market. We see how hard it is for people with a different background to find a job, just because they have a different last name. Radar showed us that the other day. That programme carried out research at temporary employment agencies which showed that temporary employment agencies willingly cooperate in requests for discrimination from clients who prefer not to have someone with a Moroccan or Turkish background. Unacceptable in the Netherlands. It was dealt with immediately, here in the Chamber. These temporary employment agencies have been doing this for years, and every time, every year, they say they're gonna get better and start talking. And yet every year it turns out that there are scandals, that there is still discrimination. So it takes more than good conversation. Good conversation is always good. But we need more than self-regulation to tackle the discrimination that unfortunately still exists everywhere in the Netherlands. We also see this on the housing market. It is now a year since De Groene Amsterdammer conducted an investigation into the housing market. They pretended to be a real estate agent. 90% of the brokers complied with their discriminatory request. That is as shocking as what is happening on the labour market. Because living is a fundamental right in the Netherlands and anyone looking for a home deserves that property. Apart from your background. Apart from what you cook. For even that is a condition: you may live here, but then you may not cook Indonesian, because that may affect the neighbours. Unacceptable! Mr. Chairman. Just as we do in the employment agencies, we have to take tough action against discrimination in the housing market. The study has now been carried out a year ago and several debates have been held in this committee on tackling discrimination. We have a Minister of the Interior who also says we have to deal with this. But I think that Minister could take an example from the Minister for Social Affairs. The Minister of the Interior is right to talk to the housing corporations. But I would also like to give the lesson we have learned from the temporary employment agencies to this minister. The discussion is good, but we know by now that discrimination is so fundamental that all kinds of organisations will of course say that they do not do this anymore and will pay attention, but that more is needed than self-regulation. What's the Minister going to do to actually sanction? In order to be able to appeal to real estate agents that if they accept a discriminatory request, we do not accept it? I don't want to leave this to whoever wants that rental house, because then we'll leave it to the individual again. No, I want to leave that to the municipality, for example, to a government that uses mystery guests to look for brokers who deliberately discriminate. We should not put that down to the people themselves, because at some point they become despondent, and rightly so. We need to act as a government in this. I'll ask the Minister what she's gonna do. Because she supports the problem; she supports the concerns. What is it going to do more than talk to the sector? Will it also impose sanctions on the sector if the sector does not want to do so? Will the brokers ultimately be punished? Mr. Chairman. Finally. The Minister also announces an information campaign. That is very important, even in the housing market. We all know we don't want it. What's that campaign gonna look like? Is there the sword above that if one does not comply with it, if one does not change one's behavior, the government will intervene, because the government stands for everyone in the Netherlands and for anyone looking for a home, regardless of background and origin? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u3	Thank you, Mr. Gijs van Dijk. I now give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u4	Mr. Chairman. "Discrimination is not admissible. Discrimination on the housing market is particularly important because it is a basic provision." So says our Minister of the Interior. Totally. It all started with the revealing article in De Groene Amsterdammer entitled Rachid is also just a nice boy. It has shown that there is severe discrimination on the housing market. 90% of the real estate agents are involved. Mr Gijs van Dijk said that we saw comparable figures at the temporary agency. But now for the deeds. The Minister advocates a strong approach, including by the local government. There must be self-regulation and agreements on the use of mystery guests. How's that going? Are there any appointments? The Minister also announced that, in the context of good landlordship, he would look at legislative changes, such as the setting of conditions for permits and access to the Rent Committee. I'd like an update. The letter from July last year is disappointing. The Minister mainly chooses to talk and comes up with an information campaign. Sturdy measures are being changed to "use the disciplinary mechanism and the dispute resolution already in place in the sector." What happened to this powerful approach? Did the minister get himself wrapped up by the sector? It is similar to the approach of discriminatory temporary employment agencies. This approach is not going to work either. I would like a decisive approach, including high fines for brokers and homeowners who are guilty of discrimination. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Then the housing of migrant workers. Last Friday, another report came out about the degrading situation in which migrant workers are housed. Sleeping in leaky tents or sanding and being cut off on your hourly wage of €7.50, it is pure exploitation. I'd like a response. These people are reduced to means of production of the employer, put separately in caravans or a drafty barn, with a mattress on the canteen floor or in so-called Polish hotels. Large numbers of existing homes are bought up by temporary agencies. The purpose of this is to rent it exclusively to the migrant employed. Rachid and I don't have access to this part of the housing market. These homes are not intended to accommodate house seekers, but to facilitate the growth of labour migration. Does the Minister consider it acceptable that temporary employment agencies should withdraw a growing proportion of existing housing stock from the regular housing market? It seems very undesirable to me, especially in combination with the enormous housing shortage. We hear employers offer housing exclusively for Romanian or Polish men. They're getting put together. In other places there is housing for women or for those only Dutch. That too is discrimination. This is why we are in favour of regulating labour migration. We make the following proposals. Unplug the relationship...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u5	Before you continue, Mr. Ronnes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u6	I am somewhat surprised to hear this from the SP. Two weeks ago, a motion was tabled to instruct the Minister to come forward with an emergency programme on emergency homes. For this target group, too, that would make progress and that would help. I am surprised that the SP voted against this motion, when the requested solution could be a concrete one and could ensure that more houses are built. How does the SP explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u7	We want decent housing for everyone and not second-class solutions for a separate group of people. That would be discrimination, exactly what we are talking about tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u8	These are homes that meet all the requirements of the Building Decision, so I don't quite understand what you're referring to when you say you don't want second-class homes. These are quickly built and temporary homes, but they are good quality homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u9	You say it yourself, "emergency homes," "temporary homes": just as different from regular housing. That's why. Mr. Chairman. I would have stuck to my proposals. Disconnect the employer-manager relationship. Make sure employers can't be landlord too, because that makes the worker too dependent, as if he were a serf. Make sure that no wages can be deducted for the rent. At the moment this is allowed, even at the minimum wage. I would like to hear the Minister of Housing about this. And ensure a fair distribution of migrant workers across neighbourhoods and cities. Put an end to the concentration of migrant workers. Allow municipalities to use a maximum number of homes per street for migrant workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u10	Thank you, Mr. Jasper van Dijk. I now give the floor to Mr Smeulders on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Discrimination is unfortunately still widespread in our society. Also on the housing market, a study by De Groene Amsterdammer revealed a year ago. My colleagues have just referred to this. Of the 250 questions that had been done, Jaap received 162 positive responses and Rachid 116. That's a totally unacceptable difference. The fact that we see that 90% of the rental agents are willing to contribute to discrimination is totally unacceptable and shocking. I'm very glad the Minister feels the same way. It's been a year since all this came out. I have been looking for a number of things this weekend in preparation for this debate. When I read that the Minister described the results of that investigation as sad and that she indicated that discrimination is particularly affecting the housing market because it hinders people in building a life, I think that we, as GroenLinks, have rarely been so in agreement with a member of the cabinet. I think that's very broad in the Chamber too. Almost everyone hates that this is still happening, but without effective measures, we are not going to solve this problem, which is apparently very deep in society. If I read the second part of the message and also the letter that the Minister sent us later on on the approach, I will be a little less positive. It says that the Minister himself also announces measures, that she will call on the industry. I understand that's the first step, but that can't be the only step. I can't wait to see what came out of those conversations. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, it is time for more stringent measures. One of the problems with discrimination, including in the housing market, is that it is often difficult to prove that it is genuine discrimination. Often there can be several reasons. That is why it is important that two things happen. One. Much more needs to be found, including from the government, or discrimination, so that you can really prove it yourself. Mysteryguests... they have just been mentioned.. can be very helpful with that. The Secretary of State for Social Affairs was first reluctant about discrimination in the labour market, but is now prepared to use it. I would like to hear whether the Home Secretary intends to do so in the housing market. The second important point in our view is that there are clear criteria, including for private landlords, on the basis of which landlords accept or not accept people. Because as long as we don't have it, it will always be a black box on the basis of which someone gets assigned a house or is or isn't invited for a viewing. We really believe that such objective criteria are an essential element in preventing discrimination in the housing market. I would very much like to hear whether the Minister sees that as well, and I am considering tabling a motion for a resolution in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u12	I can follow that of these mystery guests. This has also been discussed with Social Affairs, but I find that of those objective criteria a little more difficult. I'm very curious what Mr. Smeulders will think of. Is that family composition, or is that income? How much freedom does a landlord have to watch? What if he says: someone came along and started talking a lot about parties; maybe we don't always find that useful and we prefer to choose the other person who likes knitting more or what?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u13	I feel very much for Mrs Van Eijs that it is not going to be easy to make such a list. Only, when you see how big the problems are, it might make sense for you to accept the first person to come forward, as we do with a lot of things, and that you have to argue it if you don't want someone to. That could be a system in which you also offer the landlord room to say, regardless of the background of someone, I'm just afraid my house will be demolished. This also means building more objectivity on the free market, which we believe is very much needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u14	If you were to make workable, objective criteria, such as "first come, first served," then the question is who would have to control such a thing. Is there someone who has to check the mailbox of the broker or the owner in the sense of: was the person really the first one with the e-mail or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u15	In my view, these are all implementation issues. I'm not in the Chamber for execution, but I can imagine. I'm thinking along with you, because if we make a proposal, I think we should have thought about it. Housing corporations have certain systems. You can also have private landlords offering properties via the same kind of systems. Then you shouldn't just send an e-mail, but enter it into an independent system. About the way I want to talk to everyone, but I find it too easy to say on the basis of "pooh, maybe it's a bit complicated in terms of execution" that we don't do it. I hope D66 doesn't, and I hope the cabinet doesn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u16	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Ronnes on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u17	Thank you, Mr President. It will only happen to you that you are discriminated against in the search for a house, that you are rejected because you are of Moroccan descent. It happens, but because numbers are missing, De Groene Amsterdammer did research. The results were poignant. De Groene Amsterdammer gives the victims a face. Not anonymous numbers and numbers, but people of flesh and blood are talking, like Ihsane Bachar. She received an e-mail with the text: "The owner of the house has chosen to rent only to people of Dutch descent." Bachar says: "You know that racism exists, but I was born and educated in the Netherlands. I've worked in education for years, and I'm part of it. Then a message like that comes in very hard. We still feel humiliated to the bone." I feel sorry for Ihsane. It makes a positive contribution to our society and is ignored in this way because of its origins. De Groene Amsterdammer discovered that a house seeker with a Dutch-sounding name is much more likely to receive an invitation for a viewing than a house seeker with a Moroccan surname. More than 90% of the rental agents are willing to participate in discriminatory requests, we can conclude after 50 mysterycalls to offices throughout the Netherlands. According to the CDA, several parties have a responsibility in this regard. The professional associations of brokers, the NVM and the VBO, must really get to work. How will the Minister help these organisations to combat discrimination effectively? NVM and VBO shouldn't hide. They must take responsibility and take action. We await their first decision to report discriminatory members to the judiciary or to dismiss them. We share the Minister's view that discrimination must never be without consequences and that it is important that the victims report it. But apparently there are thresholds that prevent that from happening. That's something that needs to be dealt with. Those thresholds need to be removed. The housing market is so overwhelmed that discrimination is not even the only problem. Double mediation costs are also charged unlawfully. It's intimidated by some cottage milkers. Temporary forms of contract are abused and people are long-term excluded by using blacklists. According to the CDA, there is one good solution: the massive construction of homes. The large shortage of housing is a major problem. We don't need new rules. There's plenty of rules. There's got to be better enforcement. The same applies to the clear rules on discrimination. In the Minister's letter on this matter, she writes that she wants to make agreements with the sector on the use of mystery guests. The letter is from last March, so my question is: how are we doing? How many mystery guests have been deployed and what was the result? I also read in that letter that the Minister sees a clear role for the Housing Union, the LSVb, the other tenant representatives and the trade associations. There is also the question: what is the situation? Mr President, that is my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u18	Good input from Mr. Ronnes. Compliments for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u19	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u20	On the one hand, Mr Ronnes says: we have to deal with this, including through the brokers, through the NVM, actually through the whole industry. At the same time, he says no rules. But I can imagine that we are actively asking the industry to draw up and enforce rules with one another; at the moment when you do not comply with them and show your discriminatory behaviour, you will eventually be removed. In the end, I think we are looking for sanctions. Does the CDA see anything in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u21	I think it is important that those authorities assume their responsibilities in this and look closely with their members at how to eliminate this kind of housing allocation that is not in order and ensure that it does not pollute the nest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u22	That would ultimately mean that you set rules with each other or maybe we will if they don't. Does it mean that at the moment that we can prove that that is happening, you are no longer a realtor?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u23	Then you talk about what sanctions you apply and how you punish. I am primarily concerned that it is being reported and that action is being taken within the current law. The current law offers enough points of reference to deal with the matter when you signal that things are being done wrong or that it is not going according to the rules. Then that sector must do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u24	Thank you, Mr. Ronnes. I now give the floor to Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Every Saturday I come to Yasamin, a hardworking entrepreneur in Amsterdam. Yasamin's not her real name, I have to be honest with you. I'd rather not use her real name here. After all, it is quite something to be cited here, and yet I do want to do so. This lady, who has a good case, has responded countless times in recent months to a private-sector rental house. Despite the fact that she was also willing to pay three months' rent in advance, she constantly received negative reactions. Not once could she come by for a viewing. After hearing "njet" for the umpteenth time, a native friend with an ancient Dutch name called the same landlord. He could come right over for a viewing. Mr. Chairman. We have our mouths full of how we want everyone to participate in our country, no matter where you were born, regardless of your origin or your last name. And rightly so. For the VVD, that medal has a clear downside. If you're in this country, you should have the same opportunities as everyone else. A chance at a job, whether your name is Yasamin or Yolanda. And chance of a house, whether your name's Rachid or Jaap. After all, we are not saying for nothing that discrimination is not tolerated in our country. In fact, it's in our Constitution. Mr. Chairman. And yet there is discrimination in our housing market. Unfortunately, Yasamin's example is not on its own. It would only happen to you, as was also said by a colleague: being discriminated against as a candidate for hire because you have a non-Dutch name. This is unfortunately the reality for thousands of Dutch people. Discrimination is unacceptable. Discrimination on the housing market is particularly important, because it is an elementary provision in building a life. Mr. Chairman. The VVD therefore finds it unacceptable that the journalists "Rachid" and "Jaap" of De Groene Amsterdammer were reacted so differently when they responded to 250 advertisements for rental homes. Direct landlords made more distinctions on the basis of origin than brokers, but also there the law was broken. The journalists presented themselves as a potential customer who moves abroad and wants to rent out his home. They asked 50 offices to take into account the wishes: rather not an immigrant in the house. As many as 46 brokers agreed. 46! The cabinet has indicated that action must be taken against this. The sector itself must get to work, for example through the deployment of mystery guests, we have read. I would like to know from the Minister whether this is happening by now. What are the results? What are the possible sanctions that the profession can impose itself or impose in the event of proven discrimination? The cabinet would also be working on additional measures. What is now being worked on in concrete terms? What's the status? How are we going to monitor this and check with each other? Discrimination is forbidden and punishable. It is a good thing that the cabinet's commitment is focused mainly on prevention, but anyone who does not want to listen must also feel it. So how are landlords, brokers and intermediaries who discriminate? How many have appeared before the judge? Why does it seem like we're always waiting for journalists to investigate this? Why isn't there targeted search and detection so that we're on top of this ourselves? I expect a proactive attitude from this minister. The VVD wants everyone in our country to have equal opportunities to make their dreams come true, no matter where your crib was or what your last name is. We will always be hard on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u26	Thank you, Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius. I now give the floor to Mr Kops on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A debate on discrimination in the housing market. The previous spokesmen have already spoken firm words. Very tough. Compliments. I'd say you can do it. We have also seen the Minister's strong language. "Ronduit saddening," she writes in her letter. She also writes: "Discrimination must never be without consequences." We'll remember that. It all sounds very forceful, of course, but why do we never hear the other parties and the minister when it comes to discrimination against the Dutch? Here in this debate everyone is screaming murder and fire, but if the Dutch are discriminated against, it seems that everyone is okay with it. It's so selective, so hypocritical and so unbelievable. Status holders still receive priority in the allocation of a social housing, while the Dutch have to be on the waiting list for an average of nine years. That is discrimination, but we do not hear about it from the other parties. Many tens of thousands of homes have already been allocated to status holders in recent years. And the Dutch are waiting. That's discrimination, but we don't hear the Minister about it. Mr. Chairman. As of 1 July 2017, status holders are no longer automatically given priority, but it is up to the municipalities to determine whether they still give priority or not. A report commissioned by the Minister himself shows that only one municipality has effectively abolished the system of priority: the municipality of Alkmaar. Only one municipality. There are a few other municipalities that want to do the same, but the vast majority of the municipalities still give priority. That's discrimination. Could the Minister please give us an update? Exactly how many municipalities today have abolished the priority regime? In other words, how many municipalities have put an end to the discrimination against the Dutch? Mr. Chairman. At least we do not have to expect much from the Minister. I quote: 'Municipals can decide for themselves which categories of residential seekers they include as an emergency category. That's what's localized." According to the Minister in reply to Parliamentary questions from the PVV. Thus a minister who refuses to do anything about the discrimination against the Dutch. Thus a minister who writes at the same time in her letter that discrimination must be tackled vigorously. Yeah, except when it comes to the Dutch. It's so unfair and so outrageous! Mr. Chairman. The PVV regularly receives letters and e-mails from citizens, house seekers who are really at an end and cannot go anywhere. We even receive letters from sick people who are literally on the streets, who are not eligible for urgency. It's too poignant for words. If the PVV now sends all these letters and e-mails to the minister, will it finally take action for those people? They're all poignant stories. It's getting more and more. I can assure the Minister that it is too terrible for words to read all this misery, especially if status holders are still given priority. And your heart breaks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u28	Thank you. Mr Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u29	We seem to be getting into a completely different debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u30	No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u31	I'd like to get back to the subject anyway. Breaks the heart of Mr Kops also when he reads the article in De Groene Amsterdammer...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u32	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u33	... and sees that people with a different last name are less likely to have a home?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u34	Yeah, absolutely. It can't be. Indeed, I fully agree with Mr Van Dijk. Absolutely. But, if he had listened carefully to my speech, does he, like the PVV, also find it so horrible that the Dutch are discriminated against in the housing market? 'Cause that's what's gonna happen. That too is discrimination, but I do not hear the PvdA about that. Does Mr Van Dijk agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u35	This is really deception in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u36	No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u37	The housing market is way too tight. Mr Ronnes has rightly said that more needs to be built and more houses added. That's what we all find here. But it's the facts that you get access less often when you make a request with another last name to view a house. And that is a worrying development. And that's discrimination.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u38	That question has now been asked twice by Mr Van Dijk. He repeats his question because the first answer I had given him probably doesn't suit him, because I agree with him in that regard. If people want to have a particular home, they are rejected on the basis of a name or how they cook, that is, of course, reprehensible and must be dealt with. Of course. But then Mr Van Dijk, the PVV, also has to be consistent and tackle the discrimination against the Dutch in the housing market. Because those are facts, too, Mr. Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u39	It is indeed amazing how the PVV uses this subject, discrimination in the housing market, to bash people who have fled war and violence once more and not to identify people who are allowed to stay here as Dutch. But I am very pleased with Mr Kops' answer to Mr Van Dijk's question. The PVV also says that discrimination in the housing market should simply not be possible. If Rachid gets a lot less positive reactions than Jaap, he just can't. I am very curious to know what Mr Kops is asking the Minister to do about this. According to the PVV, what should be done about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u40	Well, take it. Discrimination is, in my opinion, just a criminal offence, so I would say: report it; take it. Take on the real estate agents who do so systematically. We just agree on that. Go ahead. That's all good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u41	Again, I am very pleased with this reply from Mr Kops.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u42	Well, good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u43	If possible motions are put forward immediately saying that we need to tackle discrimination harder and that we also need to do something about the landlords who abuse the vulnerable position of people who may have a different last name, is the PVV prepared to say not only here now that we need to do something about it, but also to support those motions?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u44	We'll see. I haven't seen a motion yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u45	That's what we're gonna see in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u46	Is Mr Kops of the PVV aware that the way in which the PVV intervenes here in the debate leads to more discrimination and actually increases the problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u47	The answer is: no, I have no idea what Mr Azarkan is talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u48	Well, I'll give you a hand. In a debate, I say through you, President-in-Office of the Council, in which the PVV participates, it is always turned around, just as it just happened. It's always the one with a non-Western background, like the migrant, who gets humiliated, who gets thrown away as inferior. In fact, the boss and founder of Mr Kops' party has already been charged twice by the criminal court. He was even convicted of discrimination once.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u49	I want us at...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u50	You know very well what I'm talking about. Your party contributes to the increasing incidence of discrimination, including in the housing market. You should be aware of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u51	We stick to the subject, discrimination in the housing market.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u52	I'm supposed to be aware of that? No, I don't have to do anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u53	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, discrimination is everywhere and everywhere and undermines the constitutional right to equal opportunities. We see that in full in society. In education, pupils and students are lagging behind because of their cultural background, because they receive lower school advice or because they cannot find an internship. We now know that Mark is very often preferred to Muhammad at the employment office. At the housing market, Rachid and Jaap don't have the same chances of looking for a house. We can conclude that in our society racism and discrimination become commonplace and often occur. The government itself reports that discrimination on the basis of origin is most common. This unequal treatment leads to inadequate participation and loss of talent. When you read that, it's actually very untouchable things. Do you know what really hurts? The fact that you are humiliated to the bone. This is so beautifully represented by Abbie, who first lived in Amsterdam and wanted to go to a larger house. After sending 30 e-mails to brokers, he did not receive any invitation for a visit. He started to doubt himself. It started to gnaw. He discussed that with his girlfriend, who has no migration background. She sent two e-mails and got two invitations. He was stunned. Everything went through his head: am I a less human and am I inferior? Mr. Chairman. How long do we accept the structural discrimination of citizens in the Netherlands, the humiliation of people, the disadvantage of some citizens and the feeling of second-class citizens? I ask the Minister whether it is not time for a delta plan to tackle racism and discrimination, because De Groene Amsterdammer's research comes up with devastating conclusions. 46 out of 50 brokers participate in discriminatory requests to exclude certain people of different origin. 4 out of 50 said: we do not select by race and color. Compliments for those four agencies, but let this work out for you: 92% of the brokers are fooling around with Article 1 of our Constitution. The landlord's wishes are leading, even if they're criminal. Whoever pays, decides. Even worse, 62% of these real estate agents reported not being aware of the fact that they did something wrong. They think it's normal to make a distinction. You can't help but be angry and sad about this. Those stories bring tears to your eyes: like Abbie fully participate and have the idea that you have a full-fledged place in that society and then find out that you are only rejected because your ancestors come from Morocco, Turkey or Suriname. What does the Minister do? I can only conclude that the Minister does not give priority to combating racism and discrimination in the housing market. The minister needed three months to talk to the interests organisations NVM and VBO. I'm gonna ask the Minister what it feels like to come into a room like this. How does it feel to be between a group of real estate agents 92% of whom discriminates and differentiates? And what's really come out of it? I read in the letter weak bite, policy talk and chic words put in a row that sound nice, but which don't help the victims a millimetre further: things like "the industry has to pick it up itself," "self-regulation," "the sector has to start organizing mystery guests" and more of those nothing-solving, space-giving and forward-looking texts whose pants are falling down. How many of those 46 real estate agents have actually been prosecuted? As far as I am concerned, it is not always words, but it is time to come to real action. I say to the Minister, stop working with anti-discrimination agencies myself. Start an investigation yourself and come to a thorough analysis. And finally, put the inspection to work. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u55	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mrs Van Eijs on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u56	Mr. Chairman. Mightless and angry. That's how I'd feel, I guess, if I couldn't come to an apartment just because of my skin color, faith or sexual preference. We all have to be angry when someone because of his last name doesn't even get a chance and gets locked out. But watching powerless, we shouldn't accept that either. Never. That is why it is good that we are talking today about what we can do about it. I very much hope that people who are faced with discrimination will also mention this. Only in April will we get more recent figures on these discrimination reports. Does the Minister know whether the reports of discrimination in the search for a house have been taken into account separately? Is it clear to people who have to deal with it where they can come forward? Is there not a need for a separate hotline for this? Mr. Chairman. In the case of properties for sale and sometimes also in the case of rentals, there is a very natural party to speak with: the real estate agents. For example, the NVM proudly reports on its website that it is the largest association of brokers and valuers. How do they contribute to combating discrimination? If one of their members is shown to discriminate, will he be thrown out of the union? And what about the certification? As far as D66 is concerned, it is withdrawn immediately. That certification is not generally known at all. How does the Minister view a more public-friendly label, also in view of the recent news of valuations? In the case of labour market discrimination, D66 has called for mediators to report it actively if someone makes a discriminatory request. Can we also require brokers and other intermediaries in the housing market to do so? The examples we have seen so far are mainly about discrimination in renting houses. The Minister is talking about this, and also about housekeeping and intimidation of tenants, under the heading "good landlordship." In addition, she indicated in an earlier letter that she would conduct periodic surveys. What concrete action has been taken so far in consultation or research? In other words, what's really going to be done about it? Under the Groningen model there is the possibility to withdraw the permit to rent. Can this also be done in the case of discrimination, if, for example, such a notification of a discriminatory request has been received from a broker? What is the situation in other cities with the roll-out of such a model? And can it also provide funds in those cities to deal with landlords who discriminate? In an earlier debate on this form of discrimination, there was also talk of more active detection of discrimination. In tackling labour market discrimination there is also research into the use of so-called mysteryguests of mysterycalls. The Minister indicated earlier that she was talking to the sector and that she wanted to look at all the other instruments first. My question is therefore: has it done so? And what came out of it? Have those mystery guests been deployed? Is the Minister also prepared to investigate that possibility of mystery guests himself or to start a pilot on that? Mr. Chairman. Tackling landlords, mediators or brokers who discriminate is extremely important. Unlike the sometimes unconscious discrimination in the labour market, these are very conscious actions. What is also very important in addition to a punishment such as taking away certification or a licence, is that many more people can show that they do not approve of discrimination. They can do that by choosing another landlord or real estate agent, but of course they need to know about that discrimination. Is there any possibility to make established discrimination much more widely known by taking-and-shaming? I asked the Minister earlier to deliver the judgements of the Rent Committee on house milkers as open data and to make it clear which landlords go wrong over and over again. How's this going? And can this also be for discrimination? Because D66 believes that tackling discrimination is very important, but it is also very important to show very clearly that discrimination is absolutely unacceptable and that those who are discriminated against are fully supported.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u57	Mrs Van Eijs wants action and action to combat discrimination. That's what I want. Wouldn't it be good to ask the Minister to look into De Groene's investigation? It has already found that 90% of rental agents are prepared to discriminate. So we already have a very large file of discriminatory brokers. Shouldn't we ask the Minister to go there and talk to them?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u58	I think it is a very good idea to talk to these real estate agents, but if I understood correctly, 48 real estate agents were actually caught in the relevant investigation. Of course there are far too many, but I fear that there may be many more in the Netherlands. It is therefore good to talk to the trade associations as well. What are they gonna do? Is a person's certification withdrawn if discrimination is found? Or is the one from the association being marbled, so there can't be a NVM sign on the door? I think that's quite right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u59	I am glad that Mrs Van Eijs agrees with me that the Minister should get on with that. She also suggested that we look at whether a reporting obligation would work, as with the temporary employment agencies, as her colleague suggested. Could you explain exactly what that would mean? What should happen, in your view, if a broker sees that, for example, a colleague of his is discriminated against? You want him to report that, but what happens if he doesn't, if it's up to you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u60	The idea is that when a realtor is called, as in De Groene Rotterdammer's research, he says no to such a discriminatory request at that time, but also that he reports it: this landlord has made a discriminatory request to me. Then something can be done with it. Now it's often: someone called, but I didn't cooperate. But then someone like that just goes to the next one and eventually someone like that doesn't get caught at all. And that's what we're trying to do. Perhaps such a reporting obligation could just form a piece of extra burden of proof in order to deal with such a person in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u61	It is De Groene Amsterdammer and not De Groene Rotterdammer. You liked it, didn't you, Mr. Van Dijk?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u62	As a Feyenoord fan, I thought it was a nice slip. From now on, let's call it De Groene Rotterdammer. But to get it right, what do you think should happen if that broker doesn't report discrimination? That obligation to notify should have consequences if not reported.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u63	It is mainly about combating unfair competition and strengthening the position of brokers who do report it. Then you give those people less unfair competition, or else they'll say, "If I don't, the neighbor will." I think it's also an important signal. Labour market discrimination is now examining whether it is going to work. I think it's a good idea to see if it can work here too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u64	Thank you, Mrs Van Eijs. I'll see if the minister needs a brief suspension. That's the case. Then I'll suspend the meeting for about five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u65	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing an important issue. That's important to this room. It's important to me. And it's important for the Netherlands. Because having a roof over your head is an important fundamental right. I would like to repeat it to Mr Van Dam: that is the basis for people to build up their existence. Everyone in the Netherlands should be able to get a home, regardless of name, gender, faith or skin colour. Last year we established that after that publication in De Groene Amsterdammer. We discussed it regularly afterwards, including in debates. When I'm in the country, I'll talk to the industry at the tables. I find that it is often a question of which solution is best suited. Which solution is the most feasible? Is that approach going well in one municipality? Or did another congregation come up with a better idea? We should not underestimate each other's strong signal from setting a clear standard. I think this room set it up. I think the Cabinet will do the same. That standard is really very simple: discrimination is not acceptable. That's a powerful signal. It is also for the lady Mrs Yeşilgöz just mentioned, the signal that the government is on her side and that it is important to do something about this. It is also important to note this and report it to the discrimination hotline. It's important to report it. Do something with it so we can help and act! After that first debate here and the strong signal that emerged from the publication, I had an intensive conversation with the sector. We've come to the approach of good landlordship. Because the sector also agrees that discrimination should not be allowed. Discrimination must have no place, not even on the housing market. It is also illegal and prohibited there. The inter-branch organisations have therefore started to bring to the attention of their members the fight against discrimination. Work is being carried out on standardised tenant screening, so that discrimination via that route is also closed. I have research conducted into the nature and extent of discrimination. It was just suggested: talk to De Groene Amsterdammer and use their research as a basis. I understand. But it is also very good to have it scientifically established, hence the research of Radboud University. Indeed, I think it is important to try out and deploy different instruments and to test what works in practice. So that approach is put into practice step by step, little by little. In addition, there is, of course, the preventive side. I am going to go into all the questions that have been asked about this in detail, but I would like to outline the whole. On the preventive side, I said that naming the fact that we need to address each other when this happens is very important. Victims of discrimination must indeed come forward and make this known to the local authorities. Eventually, you can go to the Human Rights College. In this way, with this approach which is both practical and principled, I think we are doing what needs to be done. Then I come to the questions asked. They're justified. I understand these questions very well. I have said that I want to deal with this issue together with the sector. Consultation with the sector is a first step, because an effective approach cannot be achieved without the sector. That is what I am saying to Mr Smeulders, Mr Van Dam and others who have called for it. An effective approach cannot be achieved without the sector! It is much closer to the problem and that is why I have spoken with the sector. I also continue to speak with the sector and urge effective self-regulation, not as a single step, but as an important step. I am pleased to note from the talks that the sector is prepared to do so. At the same time, of course, you are looking for instruments to increase the chances of taking action, because only then can any sanctions be seen and imposed. And then it is indeed a good idea to look at what they have already done in Social Affairs on the issue of discrimination in the labour market, which has unfortunately been going on for a long time and which has also been looking for different ways to tackle it effectively. And I think it is very relevant what SZW's colleagues are doing right now. For example, the Inspection SZW is looking at the possibility of using mystery guests in pilots for this approach. We must beware of this, and that is very relevant to the housing market: we do not create any appearance of entrapment in the use of this instrument. That's why you can use an experimental approach with pilots to see what you can do. It's practice testing. I also informed the Chamber about the approach in Rotterdam. That's where we set up a pilot together. Money has been made available from BZK, just to see what can work. And I think that my approach is in line with what is also being tried at SZW on the labour market.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u67	Minister, it is Mr Gijs van Dijk, not Mr Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u68	Oh, excuse me. But that's because there's another name on the list. That has completely confused me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u69	Yes, there are several spokesmen, but this is Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u70	Gijs van Dijk, for sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u71	Apparently, Rotterdam was in my head after all. I also read this in the Minister's letter, and I must say that I became very curious about what that meant, because that was not exactly what was in that letter. Does this mean that mystery guests have actually been deployed or mysterycalls have been tried out in Rotterdam? I would find that very positive.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u72	It means that we have explicitly included in the agreements with the municipality of Rotterdam that pilots with mystery guests can be used to expose this. So this is part of the deal we made with Rotterdam.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u73	Without immediately alerting all brokers, but when can they be called or actually visited by such a mystery guest? Is that really going to happen soon?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u74	Part of the approach is that it is a mystery guest, which indeed means that we do not give too much insight into when that could happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u75	The approach in Rotterdam is well known to me. Moreover, this concerns a motion by the DENK Group in Rotterdam, which was adopted and on the basis of which action is taken. Do I understand correctly that the Minister says: I embrace this approach; I am now focusing on Rotterdam, I am pretending that it belongs to me and would like to use it more broadly?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u76	Well, what I said is that we've agreed to a pilot with the municipality of Rotterdam to test and test things. In addition, the mystery guest can also be shown. I want to know, of course, whether that works and whether this will give you a grip on the phenomenon. So the reason to do it this way, through experiments, through collaboration, in this case with the municipality of Rotterdam, is that we can then judge what works and what doesn't work, and whether something can be scaled up or not. So this is one step at a time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u77	I understand that the city council in Rotterdam calls on a motion to deploy these mystery guests. And now the Minister says: I'm just waiting; I'm not doing anything in the rest of the country, I'm just waiting for some results here and then I'm gonna see what I'm gonna do. I think that's very limited. Is it not possible for the Minister himself to come up proactively with a pilot, put the inspection to work and simply get to work quickly? We've been a year. What do we tell those people at home who are excluded every time?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u78	The municipality of Rotterdam is the second city of the Netherlands, and we do a big pilot with it. A collaboration between the Empire and the municipality, I think that's very serious. I have just said that I have consulted with the sector on an approach covering the whole sector and self-regulation. I said I'd get Radboud University to do research to get even better control of the problem. I will deal with a number of other questions later, such as the one on the Groningen approach. So this is precisely about getting a grip on the problem. And that, I think, is necessary in order to have an approach that may eventually apply to the whole of the Netherlands. But this is precisely because I want to go there, and I do not want to wait until we have thought it all through and it is right on paper, but to put it right into practice. Mr. Chairman. I will then turn to a number of questions about the approach. Mrs Van Eijs asked whether it would help to have a specific hotline for discrimination in the housing market. It is indeed important for people to be able to report this, preferably at a low threshold. I think that the municipal anti-discrimination agencies, which really are for that, are the most accessible place for people to report their complaints. So they register those complaints and give independent advice and support in the handling of those complaints. People can, of course, also report it, because it is forbidden to discriminate. I mentioned just now that people can go to the Human Rights College. So there are several places, one a little bit more low-threshold than the other, where people can go. In advance, I think that this is enough and I do not think that a separate hotline for discrimination in the housing market is necessary, because I do not think that this is at the heart of the problem. Mr Ronnes, Mrs Van Eijs and others have asked: if you talk to the sector, what does the sector do? For example, the NVM has indicated that in their own procedures, in their training courses and in the training they give to their members, they are calling for attention to be given to this theme. They are intensively involved in the table good landlordship. They participate in qualitative research into discrimination in the housing market. The same applies to VBO Real Estate Agents. The information, which several Members asked for, concerns the agreement I made with the sector that they themselves keep in close contact with their members, brokers, intermediaries and landlords about the codes of conduct and the agreements behind them. I see that more is really needed and that steps can really be taken, both on the landlord's side but also on the tenant's side, in order to better inform them and give them more information. It is a first step, but I think it can help, in addition to a broader focus on the phenomenon of discrimination. Mr Smeulders has made a suggestion which he would like to have a reaction to. He asked if you couldn't come up with a list of objective criteria. If I have listened to him correctly, that should result in some kind of allocation obligation for private landlords. It is a fact that this problem does not actually arise in housing corporations. That's where we have certain systems. The housing distribution systems are subject to objective criteria, so that a social rental home ends up with the person most entitled to that home according to those criteria. This is more complicated in the private sector. There are best demands that I can imagine a private landlord making. For example, whether someone has the financial means to pay for the property. But we can't have discrimination. That is why I find Mr Smeulders' proposal very charming, because if you could make those kinds of criteria, you could also work on some sort of standardisation and then it would automatically be that there is a fair allocation. At the same time, I also see problems in creating a kind of housing allocation in the free sector. That is, of course, a far-reaching procedure. So I find the suggestion sympathetic and constructive. I'd like to explore what can and can't be done in there and put that in the picture. Once again, it must be about combating discrimination, i.e. using objective criteria, without going any further into the possibility of a certain degree of choice, but then it must be about being able to pay. Of course, it can never be about someone's background, because then there is discrimination, and that is not allowed. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna take a bit of a break from the branch, because I'm gonna come back to the NVM and the VBO. Mr Ronnes asked for it. He asked if I could do more to help them, so in addition to the information I have agreed with them and which they themselves are going to give to their members. I told you, they are also involved in the research of Radboud University. And I would like to add that they themselves also benefit from creating a greater chance of taking action, because that is at the heart of the problem: it is difficult to 'catch' those who apply these practices, just to use that word. Mr Ronnes asked about the role of the LSVb and other tenants. In the approach of good landlordship, the LSVb and the tenant organisations, such as the Woonbond, are involved. They can, of course, also play an important role in this. They can report discrimination and help to combat it. And if we wanted to continue with those mystery guests, they could also play a role in that. Mrs Van Eijs pointed to the Groningen model. This therefore concerns the model for issuing rental permits, which can therefore be withdrawn. I have already said that we have made funds available from BZK to Groningen in order to implement this approach, and to do so through the licensing system and its enforcement. We agreed we'd follow it well together. We also share it with other municipalities. That also applies to this aspect. So if it works there, I think it's very relevant, including for other cities. But of course it remains important in this approach that those looking for housing who experience and recognise discrimination are prepared to report it and report it and so on. But I know there are other cities that are interested in that. And perhaps a little along the lines of that: if there is a willingness to report and there would also be convictions, then of course it has a deterrent effect and in some sense that is also a form of taking-and-shaming. Mrs Van Eijs also referred to this. The sanctioning is a bit along the lines of that. Several speakers have talked about this. See, that starts with the chance of getting caught that I just mentioned. I therefore believe that this approach will lead to more reports and a greater chance of taking action, and thus also to the possibility of sanctioning. The SP also included the issue of migrant workers in this discussion. I understand that in itself, because it is often also about housing. I think that it is also largely reflected in the debates with Mr van SZW, because it is not always a question of discrimination as far as I am concerned. At the time when you have other housing for migrant workers in a municipality, it may be because the housing question is also different, for example temporary in nature. So I don't rule out discrimination, but it doesn't always have to be the case just because it's a different type of housing. The SP has made three proposals: disconnect the relationship between work and living, no retention of rent on pay, and distribution of migrant workers in a neighbourhood or street. For the first two proposals, my colleague from SZW has opted for regulation through the Wet approach, which lays down rules for the relationship between work and living, including the inclusion of rent on wages. So that's something that's going on with SZW's colleagues. When it comes to the third point, namely distribution, municipalities can do things in it. They have the Housing Regulation. They can use or use them to tell you what to do, including in the qualitative sense, in the housing of migrant workers. The fact is that some municipalities do the same. The fact is that, of course, we need the migrant workers in the Netherlands to keep our economy running. But I believe that there are instruments at local level that municipalities can use to manage this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u79	Mr Gijs van Dijk. Oh, no, Mr. Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u80	That is the second time, Mr President! I'm gonna think about sanctions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u81	It's okay. Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u82	Anyway... The Minister's right. I recently had that debate with the Minister for Social Affairs. He said to me at the time: you should be with the Minister of the Interior. So I'm gonna take my chance now, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u83	I see it. But we're not talking about migrant workers right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u84	No, okay, but the minister just said something I wanted to ask you about. Is that okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u85	Yeah, you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u86	Fine. The Minister said: keeping wages for housing. It is true that the Minister of SZW has written something about this, namely that it is not possible in principle if you have a minimum wage, but that there are exceptions. I don't think that's desirable. The only question I ask in all my modesty...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u87	That's how we know you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u88	Thank you. ...is if the Minister is prepared to look into that. I want to reduce the dependency relationship between the migrant worker and the employer who is also the landlord. In my opinion, this can be achieved by making it no longer possible for the employer to hold wages for housing. He can do that now. Is the Minister prepared to see if that possibility can be terminated? I want a divorce. I hear Mr Gijs van Dijk say: unplugging. Thank you. This is about the combination of employer / landlord.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u89	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u90	I must honestly say that I should discuss this with SZW's colleague. I'm not going back and forth ping-pong; that would be lame. But what I just reported, I reported under the authority of SZW's colleague. I understand that's part of the Fake Constructions Act. I understand in itself that this link could in some cases lead to annoying situations, but I cannot infer that you should generalise that. So I really have to come back to that. I can't promise that right now from the loose wrist.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u91	Will you do so in writing to Mr Jasper van Dijk or to the Chamber? Yeah? I'm gonna take a look at the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u92	Yes. I will then answer this question in writing, or perhaps we will do so together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u93	I've learned that you always have to ask when.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u94	Yes, very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u95	I think it's a question we should be able to answer in a week or three.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u96	Fine. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u97	In my opinion, I would have said a few things about the declaration. Mrs Yeşilgöz had a good question: how can we ensure that there is more persecution? That too has to do with the low chance of getting caught. Two: it also has to do with the willingness to report or report. We need to make sure that it really improves; hence the information about it. If the chance of getting caught is increased and more reports and reports are made, it is, of course, a matter for the prosecution. That means the D.A.'s gonna have to get that evidence around. So I fully share with Mrs Yeşilgöz that we should go that way. I would also like to take the steps to get closer to that, so that the prosecution is better able to do so. Of course, I cannot say whether I can do that then, but at least I want to do what I can to promote it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u98	I welcome the Minister's commitment to doing what she can. I was wondering how many times it's been prosecuted so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u99	The 2018 figures are not yet available. In 2017, there were 146 reports of anti-discrimination provisions. That's a slight increase. I would still have to look into how many cases that have led to an action in the district attorney's office. I'd like to have that checked.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u100	Thank you for that. Can we get a commitment that we can monitor how often that happens, perhaps including follow-up steps or recommendations from the Minister to ensure that the number of prosecutions increases? We want prevention where we can and lick-on-piece where we need it. I think it would be a good idea for us here in the Chamber to be able to monitor how that is going and how it is getting better and better, so that those who do not want to listen will be punished.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u101	A clear point. Perhaps it is best to include this in a subsequent progress report, for example on the approach in Rotterdam, the results of the research of Radboud University, and then to get an idea of the exact situation with regard to reports, the state's attorney's office and the situation with regard to convictions. We don't have a clear picture of that last one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u102	I don't know if I find this very sad or a little laughable. The Minister states: I have no figures for 2018 yet; in 2017 there were 146 reports, we are talking about two years ago and I have no idea how many people have been prosecuted. That is in stark contrast to the beginning of her story about how bad this is, how terrible it is when you are discriminated against. We're two years away. The Minister has no figures. I don't think the minister knows what they're doing on this file.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u103	With all due respect, that has nothing to do with the approach, but it simply has to do with the regular time when these cases are reported, for example by anti-discrimination provisions, for example by the public prosecutor and, for example, by the municipalities. That has nothing to do with the approach. Perhaps I can immediately answer the question that Mr Azarkan asked about the criminal chain, following Mrs Yeşilgöz: what then? It is important that we realize that it starts with the declaration, so we need to increase the willingness to report it. The prosecution must then have sufficient evidence to enable it to take action. In the end, on the basis of that evidence, the judge must judge whether there is a criminal offence. That's a whole chain, pretty long way. I also found the article in De Groene Amsterdammer very shocking, but on the basis of that message it is impossible to check all this. It has set something in motion, so that we can see later whether that has indeed led to condemnation, but I cannot do so now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u104	So this is exactly my point. I did so in the course of the oral questions nine months ago. The Minister just doesn't feel that this is an urgent issue. The incident has occurred and 92% of the brokers say: yes, I discriminate, I simply exclude people with a Turkish, Moroccan or Surinamese background. Then the Minister will wait three months. Then she hasn't asked for any information on how big this problem is. She doesn't know how many people have been convicted of that right now. And she comes up with all kinds of vagueness: yes, then I have to figure this out, it's complicated. Why not copy with a number of officials what De Groene Amsterdammer has done? You put them to work at the Labour Inspectorate, you have them call. And if they break the law, you're supposed to take them down. This is about Article 1 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u105	We are in any case in complete agreement on urgency, and in fact the whole Chamber. I've just outlined an approach. I think I am going to meet the group of DENK with that very much. We're all in agreement. We are taking serious steps to tackle this form of discrimination. We want an increase in the chances of getting caught, and we want, of course, that the chances of a punishment become real and actually increase. The only thing we disagree on at least is that I am talking about a pragmatic approach to an extremely serious problem and that I think DENK actually thinks: let there be a nice delta plan first. No, I just want to take action, along with the municipalities and with the sector. A broad approach, that's what I want.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u106	Finally, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u107	I really can't believe you're saying about breaking the law, about tackling racism and discrimination: I'm dealing pragmatically with that. I find that very sad and sad for the people who do this every day. Racism and discrimination and breaking the law, you never deal with it pragmatically. That's just a crime. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u108	Then Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u109	I wanted to look at it from the other side. Has the Minister taken that article by De Groene Amsterdammer pragmatically and said that it shows that 92% of the rental agents are prepared to discriminate? De Groene has investigated this quite thoroughly. So you have a lot of information. Did you pick that up and see if you could study these real estate agents, at least?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u110	Of course. Let us be honest: this has been the beginning, also of the indignation here in this Chamber. Let us also welcome the fact that De Groene Amsterdammer has investigated this in this way, has pointed it out and has indeed made us aware of this problem. I do think you should carry that investigation forward in our line of work yourself. Hence the research that Radboud University is doing right now. Hence the approach with these municipalities. Hence the consultation with Social Affairs to see if we can also partly use the approach to labour market discrimination in housing market discrimination. That's the way we work, isn't it? Thanks to good journalistic work, problems can be identified or multiplied, made even more intrusive. That is very good, but that does not also relieve us of our own approach, our own research and our own proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u111	It's excellent if you're gonna do your own research. We look forward to that with interest, but a little more concrete: The Groene Amsterdammer has found of 92% of the brokers they investigated that they are prepared to discriminate. Did you take concrete action on that group?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u112	Of course, my conversation with the sector at that table started with that. That's been quite an intrusive conversation. The problem with this is that the article and the research that lies under it are not enough to prove that it actually happened. Of course, we have to figure that out with each other. That is why I am pleased that the sector has said to take it extremely seriously. There is, of course, none of the Members who have said: what is there, I have done so. No. They strongly reject this, and they now have to prove in practice that what has come out of it simply cannot happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u113	I'm gonna keep going on this, 'cause here you see the parallel with the temp agencies. They have also spoken for years when this came up "no, we don't" or "we shouldn't" but eventually you want the behavior to be changed. What is this sector going to do if you're talking about regulation by the sector itself? Is there going to be an action plan? What can we expect?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u114	That which I have outlined in my letter is, in my opinion, from November last year where this approach to good landlordship lies. That includes the proposals and the agreements I have made on what the sector can do itself. They need to be vigilant, they need to work on informing their members and they need to work with us, including in those pilots and in the investigation, to really get the finger behind it, so that there can be sanctions where it has happened. It has also been said that something might be done with certification. That's not a legal certification. It belongs to the sector itself. This means that the sector itself has the tools to take action against self-certified members in such cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u115	This is crucial, because then you are talking about sanctions from the sector itself. It says: you discriminate, we have seen this several times and so we take your certificate and you are no longer with us. Can we expect that in the short term from the sector itself? The temporary employment agencies have also introduced this. They have said: we just have a registration and at the moment when you are demonstrably inadequate, you are no longer with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u116	The sector itself says to take this seriously and be willing to like... The "if" is of "if it can be demonstrated." They strongly reject it, so I think it is part of my agreement with the sector. This means that they must, of course, do so in extreme cases. Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u117	I understand the Minister when she says: there is an investigation by De Groene Amsterdammer and that is shocking, but it is one research and it is important to see if that really is the overall picture for the whole of the Netherlands. I also understand that it is convenient and good to have a university, such as Radboud University, do research on that. Now I'm going to ask a couple of questions because I find that the Minister is personally passionate about this, so I really hope she can answer that. Suppose that from the research of Radboud University comes the same image as that of De Groene Amsterdammer, what will the minister do? Are the measures that are now being outlined sufficient, in her view, or should they be put on top of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u118	I certainly don't rule out the need for another shovel on top. At the same time, it is always difficult to anticipate things. I would first like to see that research in full measure with all the scientific weight it will get, but in advance you should not rule out the possibility that there may be a need for more.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u119	I am very pleased with this answer from the Minister. I would ask her to send the investigation to the Chamber once it has been completed, with her own explanation, and also to indicate the consequences for her policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u120	That's a promise. I think the investigation will be completed after the summer. Then I'll send it with explanation, appreciation to the Chamber. Deal. Mr. Chairman. There are a few more questions. Mr Kops of the PVV also mentioned other forms of discrimination in the housing market. In its view, giving priority to status holders is also a form of discrimination towards other people. I am talking about any form of discrimination, let us be clear about that, because everyone has the right to a home. But priority, for example for status holders, concerns groups of people with a very urgent housing demand. Of course, it is not just status holders who can have an urgent housing question. It could also be about people coming out of the ggz. It can also be about people who have found a job in a particular municipality. This is covered by local autonomy, so municipalities can give a certain meaning to it themselves. Giving priority to certain groups, certain people is something other than discrimination. Mr. Chairman. Mr Ronnes asked for double conciliation costs. This approach is also reflected in the November letter last year. Moreover, there does not always have to be a relationship with discrimination, but it is also not excluded. Moreover, I believe that we are also having a discussion on this letter in April. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Van Eijs asked about the state of affairs regarding the open dates at the rental committee. I can tell her that modifications have been made to make those open data available. This will be implemented in the short term. So that's just the data being shared.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u121	I do not know if what the Minister has just said is her whole reaction to my speech. I had asked if the Minister could give us an update of how many of the 380 municipalities, I believe, have actually abolished that priority scheme at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u122	I think it's more than one by now. Mr Kops is quite right to ask that question. It's more than one. If I am not mistaken, there are five, but that means that 350 municipalities have not done so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u123	Does the Minister then share the view that this is very little and that the change in the law which has removed this legally established priority position has actually been of no use at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u124	I welcome the fact that municipalities make their own assessment of this. Whether there are many or few; in the end we have agreed with each other that municipalities themselves make a choice and that is how that choice has now fallen out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u125	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u126	Mr. Chairman. In summary or in conclusion, if you like, this is the main line of the approach. I would like to say that it is an approach, even though it is pragmatic and could not count on the support of Mr Azar. It is the approach to an urgent problem, in which we have to go through a number of steps together, as we do through the experiments, as we do through the research, as we do by naming the problem, as we do by learning from how it went in other policy areas. We've been passing through the labour market for a while. The same applies, of course, to education. That's an approach I believe in. It is indeed a theme that concerns me, but also many of today's spokesmen. I find that at least I feel strongly supported by this Chamber. The same support I feel is important for the sector and for the municipalities, which are much closer to this. So we're on it, I'm on it, and I want to tighten it up where we can and where we have to. I really think we should do everything we can to combat this discrimination in the housing market. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u127	Thank you. Then we have now reached the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Gijs van Dijk on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u128	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Minister for his reply. We agree: we must fight this discrimination hard. We must also ensure that everyone can live without obstacles. I think we really need to learn lessons from how we thought we'd dealt with discrimination in temporary employment agencies for years with research and good discussions with the sector, and with another investigation and another good conversation. In the end, after years of intense discrimination in the broadcasting sector, I think the lesson is that it is also up to a government that says: I am going to act actively, I am also going to impose a little on the sector. I'd like to give that to the Minister. Not only talk to the sector, but also make sure that sanctions are imposed, perhaps with each other, but if necessary by the government. I have a motion to encourage the Minister to do so. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas discrimination against house seekers is a persistent problem;]] [[Whereas this Chamber has adopted several motions designed to help combat discrimination;]] [[noting that there is no active detection of discriminatory landlords and brokers;]] [[calls on the Government to start active detection of discriminatory brokers by means of the deployment of persons pretending to be house-seekers at the latest before the summer recess, and to make a declaration against the brokers and landlords concerned in the event of a found infringement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-505]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u129	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u130	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u131	Mr. Chairman. The minister says she wants to do everything she can to combat discrimination in the housing market. Then I think it would be a good idea to embrace the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that research carried out by De Groene Amsterdammer shows that 92% of the rental agents are prepared to discriminate;]] [[invites the Government to examine these results and to take appropriate measures if necessary,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-506]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u132	I have one other motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u133	Which, I understand, also needs to be embraced.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u134	That is a very good suggestion, Mr President. I propose that we present this proposal from the chairman, Mr Kamerbreed. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the cost of housing is regularly withheld from migrant workers, including in the case of minimum wage;]] [[considers that this is very undesirable because of the dependency relationship;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that wages can no longer be withheld for housing,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-507]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u135	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I think that there are very few debates in the Chamber, especially in the area of living, where there is such agreement from the left to the right and where the cabinet can certainly feel supported by the House of Representatives. This is also essential on such an important subject as discrimination. That is indeed Article 1 of the Constitution, and we must all stand for it. I also welcome the remark made by the Minister and her positive response to my proposal to see how we can also make the selection process more transparent for private landlords in order to combat any discrimination. As a result, I have amended the motion I intended to table so that I think it is entirely in line with what the Minister has just indicated. I'll read the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas research has shown that discrimination is widespread particularly in the private rental sector;]] [[Whereas it is often difficult to prove that there is discrimination because there are no clear criteria on the basis of which rental agents and/or landlords invite potential tenants;]] [[calls on the Government to explore how to make the selection process for selecting potential tenants transparent, making it easier to prove possible discrimination,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Smeulders, Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-508]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u136	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There are 380 municipalities. The Minister has just said that only five of them have abolished the priority regime for status holders. The vast majority therefore still favours status holders. The Minister also said that she wants to tackle discrimination hard. I think I have a motion that fits that perfectly. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that status holders are still given priority in the allocation of a residence, while Dutch house seekers should be on the waiting list for an average of nine years;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that homes are no longer given to status holders,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Kops. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-509]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u137	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u138	Mr Azarkan, on the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u139	Yes, Mr. Chairman. You spoke to me in the first term on the fact that I strayed somewhat. I believe that Mr Kops is tabling a motion which is totally irrelevant to this debate. This debate has been requested following a study by De Groene Amsterdammer in which people with a Turkish, Moroccan and Surinam background are shown to be discriminated against in 92% of the cases. We're getting a motion here about status holders. I don't see the relevance, Mr. Chairman. You have already concluded that it is possible. I'd like to report that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u140	Yes, Mr. Kops.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u141	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Yes, dear. So Mr Azarkan wants to decide what the spokesmen may or may not bring in here. I think it's a big deal. You're well aware of that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u142	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u143	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to the Minister for replying. I think that we agree with a large part of the Chamber and with the Minister that things are happening in the housing market that simply cannot, that are criminal and that should also be dealt with. But I'm a little less satisfied with this minister's speed. I think she's been waiting too long and pushing too hard. So I'm going to give her a little push through the next two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that De Groene Amsterdammer has shown that discrimination exists in the housing market;]] [[noting that 92% of brokers distinguish on the basis of race/exit;]] [[noting that the wishes of the landlord are guiding, even if they are openly discriminatory and contrary to Article 1 of the Constitution;]] [[noting that most brokers are members of NVM or VBO;]] [[calls on the Minister to urge these two Brache organisations to expel brokers who are affiliated and who break the law from the association,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-510]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u144	Then the final motion, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting the existence of discrimination in education and the labour market;]] [[noting that De Groene Amsterdammer has shown that discrimination exists in the housing market;]] [[noting that 92% of brokers cooperated in discriminatory requests to exclude certain sections of the population;]] [[noting that 62% of brokers were apparently aware of no harm;]] [[noting that the wishes of the landlord are leading, even if they are openly discriminatory and contrary to Article 1 of the Constitution;]] [[Considering that discrimination is most common on the basis of origin, as shown by police figures, anti-discrimination provisions (ADVs), the Internet discrimination hotline (MiND) and the Public Prosecutor's Office;]] [[Noting that the renewed Designation states discrimination against the Public Prosecutor: "Every citizen must know and feel a full citizen, and be free from discriminatory statements and actions. The prosecution of discrimination shall be carried out in the context of the protected interests which the legislator has intended with regard to such offences: protection of public policy (...)';]] [[considers that decent housing is a human right and a fundamental right;]] [[considers that the approach to discrimination should be kept under constant review;]] [[calls on the Government to propose a delta plan of action which includes concrete measures to combat discrimination and racism in the housing market,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Azarkan, Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Smeulders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-511]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u145	Mr President, given your reaction, do you want to go home soon, I think?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u146	No, I don't want to go home soon. I want everyone to just stick to the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u147	Well, it's a strong motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u148	No, that's not my call. I want everyone to stick to the speaking time. The same applies to you, because you are far beyond your speaking time. Finally, I give the floor to Mrs Van Eijs on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u149	It says "round off," but I'm gonna try to do it nicely. Mr. Chairman. I welcome the Minister's answer on open dates. I hope that she will be able to say something about whether this might also be appropriate for discrimination. We should not accept discrimination. We should tackle it. Hence these two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is discrimination in the housing market where people with a different background are unjustly denied the opportunity to find a home;]] [[Whereas it is very difficult to prove discrimination in the event of suspicions of discriminatory treatment of potential tenants;]] [[Whereas the labour market also examines how discrimination can be actively detected there, for example by mysteryguests of mysterycalls;]] [[calls on the government, in consultation with the sector and other authorities, to launch a pilot to investigate whether mysteryguests of mysterycalls are a good way to detect and demonstrate discrimination in the housing market,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Eijs, Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Smeulders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-512]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u150	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that discriminatory requests to brokers and intermediaries on the housing market regularly occur;]] [[Whereas such requests do not reflect the group which is disadvantaged and therefore cannot mention discrimination;]] [[Whereas it is becoming more attractive for brokers and mediators to report discriminatory requests if this is made mandatory for all;]] [[calls on the Government to examine, in consultation with the sector, how to establish an active reporting obligation for intermediaries and brokers on the housing market of discriminatory requests entering them,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Eijs, Mr Smeulders and Mr Gijs van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-513]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u151	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u152	Mr President, thank you. I think I can start judging the motions right away. Nine have been filed. I'll start with the motion in part No. 505 by Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u153	Mr Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u154	Mr Gijs van Dijk, yes. I haven't wondered at all why you kept saying the first names, but I understand that by now. Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Nijboer have jointly tabled a motion calling for active detection of discriminatory brokers. I should like to suggest to Mr Van Dijk that he will be voting on the motion for a resolution on item No. 512, who has also been submitted in his name, is listening in just as well. Unfortunately, I have to advise against this motion, because the motion actually sees legal proceedings. I can't guarantee that. I believe that my colleagues at SZW are not yet ready to do so. We are gaining experience in practice and from there we want to increase the chances of getting caught and, of course, the chance of actual prosecution. But this motion goes beyond that. That is why, unfortunately, I have to discourage her, but I shall be coming to the motion on item No. 512. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 506 by Mr Jasper van Dijk asks that De Groene Amsterdammer be taken as a starting point for action. I would like to say one more thing to Mr Van Dijk. On the one hand, we can take advantage of the fact that independent journalists do their jobs and expose these kinds of things. At the same time, they are not here to help us in research. They work in a certain way and, of course, they must also protect their sources. In other words, it's very relevant, but I can't ask them to share all that kind of data with me. They wouldn't; I'd think it's perfectly normal that they don't. Thus, for example, there should have been a declaration on the basis of such things or the public prosecutor should have taken action. So I'd like to give him that. The motion as it stands, I am not sure, but I think that Mr Van Dijk and I should agree entirely on that point of journalistic independence and freedom. Also the motion in part No. 507 belongs to Mr Jasper van Dijk. That motion refers to the link between pay and the holding of rent for housing of migrant workers. I have just made a commitment, namely to inform the Chamber within three weeks after having had consultation with the Minister of SZW, because I think it is in the Law approach to fake constructions. So it may be premature to table a motion now, but at least you have that commitment. So maybe you can wait a little longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u155	Then I'll hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u156	At the request of Mr Jasper van Dijk, I propose his motion (22847, No. Fifty-seven. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u157	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 508, Mr Smeulders' motion. The motion shows that he has indeed modified it on the basis of the first term. As I said earlier, I find the idea interesting and constructive. Actually, it's become a research motion. For that reason and also because I have just said that the approach is appealing to me and that I see a problem here and there but that I do want to investigate it, I would like to leave it to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 509 is a motion from Mr Kops. Perhaps it does not surprise Mr Kops that I am against this motion. It does not relate to the government's policy, nor does it relate to asylum policy. We also make no distinction between different groups of urgent housing seekers, not even on the basis of their origin or whatever. The motion in part No. 510 is a motion by Mr Azarkan. To sum up, he asks the NVM and the VBO to press for measures if they break the law. I'm talking to them. I expect measures from them, too. They must of course be able to base themselves on facts, but if the law is broken, it would lead to a conviction. That should lead to action. In this respect, I believe that this motion is in line with the content of my approach. So I can leave the judgment to the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 511 was, I thought, the motion on the delta plan. I'm gonna have to take a good look. That was a long motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u158	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u159	Yeah, a delta plan, exactly. I was just looking for the word, but it's in the last sentence. I'd almost say I already have a plan. No, I already have an approach. That's the way I like to work. I don't want to study in an ivory tower for very long until there is a nice action plan, but just get to work in practice. And that's what I'm doing now. For that reason, I advise against this motion. The Van Eijs c.s. motion. in piece No. 512 sees on the pilots with mystery guests. I have just said that we are doing the pilot in Rotterdam and that we are examining, in consultation with the industry, whether and how the use of mystery guests can help combat discrimination in the housing market. I also said that we want to share widely the lessons we learn in Rotterdam. This fits in nicely with that, so I'd like to pass the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. Finally, the motion by Mr Van Eijs and others. in piece No. 513, which asks me to investigate an active reporting obligation. In fact, what I have now agreed with the sector is a kind of light form of this. The signals of discrimination are being transmitted. An effective reporting obligation may be difficult, also in terms of feasibility, but this motion calls for an investigation. For that reason, I'd like to pass judgment on to the Chamber. Finally, Mrs Van Eijs asked one more question about the open dates of the Rent Committee. These open data can be very insightful about everything that goes wrong, but the Rent Committee is not so much about landlords who go wrong with discrimination. This would be reported to other bodies. I therefore believe that it provides relevant information, but that this information does not take one-on-one into account when dealing with discrimination.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u160	A brief question, Mrs Van Eijs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u161	My question was also whether you could also use such a system for convictions for discrimination. And if you finally set up a reporting obligation, would you be able to use open data to make that clear?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u162	Excuse me, I thought it was about this open data. I understand now. Then I will simply take this question with me, to include it in the further approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u163	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u164	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-20.u165	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I thank the Minister, the Members of Parliament, everyone who has followed this debate, the staff, the stenographers, the messengers and the officials.
