ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-3.u1	Let us now turn to Mr Van der Molen's question on behalf of the CDA to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. I would also like to welcome the Minister. The question is about the report that the Ministry didn't do anything with the burqa ban for months. I call Mr Van der Molen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is almost a year since the First Chamber agreed to what we call the burqa ban: the ban in schools, government buildings, health care institutions and in public transport. That is not for nothing, because wearing a burka does not fit the free Dutch society as far as the CDA is concerned. It is a symbol of freedom and it also hinders integration. I therefore fell off my chair six months ago when the mayor of Amsterdam said: I am not going to enforce the ban, because I do not think it fits our city. A mayor who doesn't want to enforce the law is already a bad thing. Let alone defending a burqa like that. But after a WOB request from the Algemeen Dagblad, it appears that the Ministry of the Interior, and thus this minister, was far from in a hurry to regulate the introduction of the burka ban. It was not until 1 November 2018, four months after the law was passed, that an official at the Ministry started discussing the introduction and enforcement of the ban. This official also worked half a day, according to the newspaper, because she, I quote, 'had enough other hustle and bustle'. Mr. Chairman. Then the question is: what has happened at the Ministry? Why, with so many officials, did a separate official have to be hired for this at all? Why did you have to wait for that? But also: has that time been spent usefully? Because care, education, public transport await clear instructions. If the UWV then asks the Ministry "what is expected of us?', it receives the answer "in relation to summer holidays, activities are at present at a standstill." That's gonna shut me up for a while. So the impression the Minister gives in this way is: let it blow. So I also ask the Minister clearly: is this law a priority for her? The newspaper gives a different impression. Or is that the last question? Does the Minister have a completely different explanation of the image that emerges from the newspaper?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-3.u3	I shall now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, too, to Mr Van der Molen, the author of the question following reports in the daily newspaper. The Law partially bans facial-covering clothing I defended in the First Chamber. It was a law of the previous cabinet, as you know. This law was passed by the Upper Chamber in June. We must, of course, implement an adopted law and must be implemented. I said at that time in the First Chamber that it would take at least six months because of consultation with sectors. Mr Van der Molen has read in the newspaper.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The information from the WOB request has also shown that some of the time has taken to recruit additional commitment to implementation. I'm not taking anything off of it. Indeed, implementation takes time. Sometimes it's a little slower than you expect, than you want, and then you might have foreseen. I would like to add the following. As I said, it really takes time to discuss the implementation of that law with the domes and the sectors. After that consultation and on the basis of that consultation, we decided on the final date of introduction on the following summer, i.e. 1 August 2019. That's for good reason. This has to do with education, which was reluctant to introduce it during the school year. That is why the summer period has been chosen. I have the following answer to Mr Van der Molen's question. Involved has been recruited. What is even more important is that consultation, which has taken place very carefully. Have the sectors received sufficient answers to their questions at that time? We are still working on this, because it may seem like a clear law, but it is important that these sectors can deal with it themselves. That's what we've invested time in. Finally. So we have opted for a date of introduction, which the sectors also say they can get away with. Mr. Chairman. In doing so, I do not detract from the fact that the law is there and that laws that are passed should be implemented. I've tried to do that carefully. In fact, I am still trying to do that carefully, because that consultation is still ongoing. By the way, that goes with the police and the D.A.'s office. I am confident that if the law enters into force on 1 August, this will happen well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-3.u5	Mr. Chairman. I wouldn't mind the Minister trying to implement this law carefully. That is the least we can expect from the Minister as a State General.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-3.u6	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-3.u7	But if you allow yourself four months to look for an official in that period, you agree that this delay will occur. You give to the Second and First Chambers to need six months, but you reserve four months to find someone. I really do not have an answer to that question, Mr President-in-Office. Why, in such a large ministry, we should first look for someone who can add that part-time. I don't think there's a rush. If the mayor of Amsterdam then says "I do not execute it" and a top official then asks "Would you give me a note on what has been done over the past period" and the top official gets the answer "nothing at all, I believe," then the implementation of a law adopted by the States General has simply not been a priority. I would therefore ask the Minister to go into this further. Because we do not have a debate about this care, but a Chamber can expect a law that has been passed to be implemented smoothly, because the outside world is waiting for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-3.u8	Absolutely. To join the latter, the States-General may assume that a law will be passed. I told you at the time of treatment, I need at least six months. I have therefore given a warning of the deadline for introduction. It is also a fact that laws usually enter into force on 1 January or 1 July. So the expectation was that 1 January would be the first possible date, if we could make it. The second imaginable date was the summer of this year. That's the last one it became. Mr Van der Molen also asked about personnel policy in the Ministry. I do not want to go into too much detail, but I am not going into any complicated matters. It is a fact that for all kinds of reasons in terms of personnel policy, it was necessary to recruit a specific person equipped for this specific task. That's what happened. That took longer than I wanted, but those are the facts. So I'm not running away from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-3.u9	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-3.u10	I can imagine, but at the same time I cannot imagine, because, according to the newspaper, this person had at least'more noble tasks' in addition to carrying out this point. I believe that this is not a priority. I would like to ask another follow-up question about the treatment in the First Chamber. A motion has been tabled in the First Chamber by Mr Schalk and a number of other Members, who have also asked you whether we could look at the application of such a ban on facial clothing at demonstrations after the adoption of this law. We have experienced this year that Mr Baudet was threatened during a demonstration by a person wearing facial clothing. How long does the First Chamber have to wait for a reply from the Minister to the question as to whether it considers these measures desirable? However, the CDA considers it desirable to extend this ban to include demonstrations. In any case, I do not want the Minister's answer to this point to be delayed again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-3.u11	That won't cause any delay either. I informed the Chamber, also in connection with the entry into force of the law. I think we will have a general discussion on this on 3 July. I hope to see Mr Van der Molen, too. So this has my full attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-3.u12	This isn't just about anything. This is about security and being able to look at each other. This is about freedom for many women who are oppressed. It is therefore very important for the VVD that this ban on facial clothing be introduced as soon as possible. Mayor Halsema said in the past: 'We are not going to give this priority in Amsterdam'. It was said on behalf of the cabinet: 'It is premature and inappropriate for Amsterdam to say so'. Has this Minister already addressed Mayor Halsema? And can she perhaps send a letter to the Chamber before the summer about the implementation, so that the municipalities and the sectors will actually do it and so that we do not hear afterwards, only in August, that there are still a lot of objections and that it may take longer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-3.u13	A few things. At the time, when Secretary of State Knops was here to answer your Chamber's questions, he also said that there was contact between BZK and the municipality of Amsterdam on this issue. As far as I am concerned, this has happened at that time and has also been discussed and dealt with. I have now announced the introduction on 1 August. I sent a letter to your room about that. I have also said that there are still a number of things to ensure careful implementation. I was just saying it's about consulting with the sectors, but it's also about the D.A. and the police. The point, of course, is that if someone does not comply with the ban, the offender has gone wrong. That's like driving through red light or whatever. The sectors need to know how to act, but they are not ultimately the enforcers. But I do not change what is also said here on behalf of the VVD: if there is a law, then the law applies and if there is a ban, then that ban applies. And as of August 1st, this law will apply.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-3.u14	When this minister had to implement the abolition of the referendum, she was there to do so. Then it disappeared very quickly. With this law is numbered and numbered and numbered. Apologies are coming forward that... let me say nicely... actually seem like crazy excuses. There is an official who seems to be the only one who can do this, because "they are engaged in other more noble tasks." Then there's the story about education. Then let me get that story out of you. Why the hell do we have to wait till August 1st? Then it's summer vacation. The introduction of the burqa ban in education is very simple, isn't it? Girl, as of tomorrow you will no longer wear burqa; period.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-3.u15	Perhaps one correction to Mr Bosma's words. I believe that Mr Van der Molen has just said the same thing, but I believe that the article does not say 'noble tasks' but 'another noble task'. Anyway, that's a word thing. I just said that the sectors need to be properly taken into account, because they need to know how to act when the ban has entered into force. The education sector has said that it is difficult for us to make this adjustment during the school year, because people need to be instructed how to deal with it. The education sector has a strong preference to do so during the summer holidays, so that the ban applies when the new school year begins. I would point out to Mr Bosma that, on balance, this is one month later than it would have been otherwise. Normally the law had entered into force on 1 July and not on 1 August, as is currently the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-3.u16	Thank you.
