ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-10.u1	The next item is the continued treatment of the Act deactivation quoting levy. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-10.u2	... looking for a pen, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-10.u3	Let's bring one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-10.u4	That's really great. That's why I love being in the First Chamber. Courtesy everywhere! Thank you. Thank you, Mr President. May I begin by thanking Members of Parliament for their input, and above all for the emphasis placed on the inclusive labour market, as Mrs Sent literally said? Because that is what we are trying to do together. That is also necessary, because there are still too many people with disabilities on the side while they are eager and often able to work. Today is actually about one of the building blocks in the very broad package of measures to ensure that people can show their talents. I call that a broad offensive. The core of the measures we are taking is to make it easier for employers to employ people with disabilities, and to make it more attractive for people with disabilities to work or work more. Some things we can arrange or modify in the execution, but others require a change in the law. This autumn I am expected to be able to send a bill for the broad offensive, which is about the Participation Act, to the House of Representatives. Around the Jobs Agreement Act there are two legislative pathways. The first is the bill we're discussing today. This bill ensures that the cabinet keeps a number of old agreements. The second stage is the simplification of the job appointment system. I informed you of this in my letter of 4 July. The aim of this simplification is to keep the system sustainable in the long term, not because it is about the system, but because its purpose is to help people. I am in the process of drafting a draft legislative proposal for this simplification and I hope to be able to start the internet consultation this year. In the course of 2020, I hope to be able to present the bill first to the Lower House and then to the Upper House. I would like to say that I hope that we will be able to discuss this simplification in detail and in depth in both Chambers, including here. I look forward to it. The legislative proposal before us today is not about simplification. This is a proposal to amend the existing law. For myself, I have actually been using the working title "APK law" for some time when it comes to this law, because it regulates a number of technical adaptations to the current law. This concerns commitments to both Chambers and the adaptation of sections of the Jobs Agreement Act in accordance with the wishes of the House of Representatives. It is also a question of complying with the coalition agreement on the employment agreement and carrying out a motion for a resolution. Through this motion, the House of Representatives asked me not to take irreversible steps in the current transition period. You asked me this morning exactly what this law does. That's two things. This law maintains the original law and actually lays the foundation for the simplification system. It ensures that employers can already make use of the additional possibilities offered by the simplified system. I would like to address the questions you have asked on a subject-by-issue basis. I have divided the answers to the questions into four blocks: questions about government efforts, questions about simplification, questions about the bill and a block of other questions. The efforts of the government are a theme that came back a lot, in the Lower House, but certainly also in the written input to this law. And Mr Ester asked if there was anything to say about the underperformance of the government. He asked me if I could give an analysis of that. Many contributions reflected concerns and disappointment about the results of government employers. Indeed, the public sector did not make the job deal. I say frankly: that is very disappointing, especially if you sell this against the performance of the market sector. Well, there are explanations for it. For example, the public sector would have made the job deal if it had had the same growth path as the market sector. Furthermore, in recent decades, the government has outsourced, privatized or outsourced many jobs suitable for people with disabilities. I would just like to say that an explanation is not yet an excuse. They may be explanations, but it should not be an excuse not to achieve the job agreement. A deal is a deal, even if that's a difficult deal. And the deal is 25,000 jobs, so we need those 25,000 jobs. A year and a half ago, the cabinet had a wide-ranging investigation of the bottlenecks, but also of the ability of the government to achieve the agreed jobs for people with disabilities. We have looked at the lessons that we can draw from the market sector. In particular, this research showed that enthusiasm and commitment are the most important factors for success. Furthermore, government employers indicate that there are administrative barriers to making jobs count on themselves. They hinder them in realising jobs. Following that analysis, the cabinet took a number of measures. For example, I have asked Mr Aart van der Gaag, who you may know as the way forward for the 100,000 jobs in the market sector, to work as an inspiration in the public sector as well for the job appointment. I repeat it to Mr Kox: we may have had a different expectation in advance. I therefore hope that he will be able to take action here as well. On 11 April 2019, the Minister of the Interior and I made administrative agreements with all public sectors. This is how it often works with government employers. Through these agreements, government employers commit themselves to their share of additional jobs. Let me give you a brief explanation of that point. I am system responsible for this law, but the Minister of the Interior is, of course, responsible for the government employers. We had a meeting in which we made these agreements with each other. I can tell you that there was a lot of energy in that meeting. It actually makes you see something happen. Maybe a market sector will start a little easier and be a little more flexible in the beginning. And maybe the government will be a little slower at the beginning. I'm confident the government will go once she's on steam. Once that mammoth tanker goes, it's gonna go. Mr Ester said that performance had improved recently and asked what the explanation was for this increase. Part of that lies in what I just said, so once the government employers are on steam, they actually go. Mr Ester further asked whether it had anything to do with the current shortage on the labour market. Between the first and the second quarter of 2019, around 400 regular jobs have been created by government employers. Compared to the first quarter of 2018, even more than 2,000 regular jobs have been created. That is good and I find that encouraging, but I would add that we have not yet arrived. I have some explanations for this increase, but I find it very difficult to establish more causal relationships. I would not say, first of all, that the present shortage in the labour market is the first appropriate explanation. In fact, labour shortages have been taking place for a long time, while the results of public employers have only recently improved. So we need to look at other explanations. I have noticed that the talks with government employers and sector representatives have really had a more positive tone since we concluded the governance agreement and since they know that they have additional opportunities to create jobs by removing the distinction between government and the market. But I will be the first to say that the test ultimately is that it should not be about making plans, but rather about creating additional jobs. Shouldn't you just maintain the targets for the sector? That was also a question from the Christian Union. In the House of Representatives we have had the Van Dijk/Van Dijk motion, which expressly requests that we continue to report. Now government employers agreed in 2013 that they stand together for the 25,000 extra jobs for people with disabilities. And I'll repeat it again: a deal is a deal. Those 25,000 jobs need to be created. I don't care about that. With simplification, we will ensure that we can achieve those numbers in the long term too. That's relevant. We found out that because of the current way of working fewer jobs were realized than possible, among other things because everyone was wondering where a particular job counted and how it could be administered so that it came to him and not to anyone else on the list. This gave you a focus on the administrative processes and not on creating additional jobs. If we decide to keep a top-down record of the number of jobs achieved in the simplified system, we will remove the simplification, but I think it is very important to keep an eye on the pulse. Soon I will answer some of Mrs Stienen's questions about this. In the simplified system, too, I will keep track of the number of jobs achieved. In the governance agreement with the public sector that I have just mentioned, we have actually agreed that they will keep track of and report on the jobs they have achieved. For example, following the Van Dijk/Van Dijk motion, the Minister for the Interior reported the number of jobs achieved in the government in the annual report of the Reich. Mr. Chairman. There were also questions about the experiences of the past six months. We've launched a broad offensive, as I indicated. Is that gonna work? Is that enough? I already pointed out in my introduction that the broad offensive is a package of measures to help more people with disabilities to work. We want to remove existing bottlenecks, simplify legislation and sometimes really go into social security machinery to be much more visible and tangible. This is contained in a bill that I hope to send to the House of Representatives shortly. The simplification I announced to the First Chamber in the letter of 4 July last year is part of the broad offensive, so say the law that is yet to come. In doing so, we want to reduce the administrative burden, which hinders job creation, and to improve cooperation, which has now been made impossible. This problem occurred both in the market sector and in the public sector. This meant that reaching the 125,000 in width would be at risk in the longer term. That has been the reason for me to propose simplifying the job deal. For this, the internet consultation will start soon. Because I see more positive figures and because we keep a finger on the pulse, I hope that we will achieve positive results. Mrs Stienen asked: is it not true that we are moving from postponement to delay? To be honest, it happens all the time. Once you start delaying, where does it end? Is the government gonna make it to 2020? We will know in July 2021 what the results will be for 2020. In the first years of the job agreement, the government had to achieve a relatively large number of jobs. In the first years, government employers had to achieve between 3,000 and 3,500 jobs, and 2,500 jobs per year in the coming years. So that gives room to make the catch-up. At the same time, government employers still have a considerable backlog to overcome. By the end of 2018, nearly 8,000 jobs had been created in the public sector, while the target was 12,500. Although I would like to do so, I am cautiously realistic that I do not entirely expect the government to make up for the deficit of 4,500 jobs in one year. I do expect government employers to take advantage of the opportunity now available to catch up. I also expect and believe I have seen that the governance agreement provides new impetus for government employers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-10.u5	I am listening carefully to your speech. I'm trying to put a few things together in my questions, if that's okay. The first question. You indicate that government versus market could be a possible explanation. I take note of that. Of course, it remains a bit strange that there is apparently some kind of cultural factor behind it. You yourself called that passion and passion; I believe you used the term "commitment." Why is that less so in the public sector than in the market sector? That's still weird. My second point is as a question. If you let the whole history pass you by, are there things you say: this can provide the market sector with knowledge to the public sector? Or the other way around: what can the public sector learn from the market sector when it comes to creating those much-needed jobs for a very vulnerable group? Do you have any thoughts about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-10.u6	They are questions that are really relevant and actually touch the heart of the discussion. I would be careful to say that there is a plethora of passion and commitment in the market and not in the government. I was at the meeting where we made the board agreement. There were a number of people who were working through the job agreement and who told the people who signed the board agreement what work meant to them. I think that's where the key lies, because I saw that passion and commitment there too. That's what happens when people start telling each other what's going on. We may be able to learn that from the market sector. Aart van der Gaag, who made all the rounds through the Netherlands, told me that the moment that employers are going to tell each other what they benefit from it, is when it's going to fly. What does it mean, for example, for employee satisfaction in an organisation? What does it mean for absenteeism in an organization? What does it mean to people when they work on a diverse team? Those are things employers are going to tell each other. I have been somewhat hesitant to see a difference, because I see that a government often has to make policy notes and annual plans first, while in the market sector it can simply be more flexible to anticipate change proposals. Once it is in the capillaries of a government organization, it is of course also firmly anchored there. I see that it helps in both situations if the top of an organisation commits to this. That's why I think the governance agreement is a good harbinger. If the people who set the tone in an organization commit to this, it's going to fly. This is the same in both the market sector and the public sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-10.u7	The Secretary of State places a lot of confidence in the administrative agreement. The Jobs Agreement and Quota Tax Act was based on the Social Agreement of 11 April 2013. I am very curious to see the analysis as to why the administrative agreement would succeed where the social agreement did not succeed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-10.u8	I'd like to see them as complementary to each other. The social agreement was the basic agreement between the social partners and the government. I look at myself as a system manager, but in the end, employers have to work, both in the private sector and in the public sector. There is also the difference in tasks between me and the Minister of the Interior. I give the reports from the system and the public sectors are their own initiative for their employership. The agreement to split the 125,000 jobs to 100,000 and 25,000 must be continued by the government employers on that 25,000. I'm telling you quite frankly, we see quite a difference. The provinces, for example, are doing really well. A number of provinces are above the targets they need to meet, so we can learn from that. You can also learn within a public sector itself. We can also see that, but that too is an explanation and not an excuse for saying that some of the organisations we would say are public are actually part of the market because of the criteria we have drawn up. This is without prejudice to the fact that these 25,000 jobs must ultimately be realized. The agreement in the social agreement is still like a house.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-10.u9	Would it perhaps have been desirable to reach an earlier administrative agreement? In view of the fact that the government had such a high level of ambition and that the government has an exemplary role, should we not have come to an administrative agreement to manage this properly?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-10.u10	Maybe, watching how things turned out. Mrs Sent herself said in her contribution: I can look for all kinds of explanations, but I just don't like it. That's what's going on here in the end. Looking for explanations you could say that, but at the same time an appointment has been made. I have also said to government workers: fine if you indicate why it is not possible, because this simplification is necessary. This also applies in the long term to the market sector, where the same problems then arise. As far as that's concerned, that could come from behind. But if you're just saying "the mountain is too high" and not even trying to get halfway there, why would I go and simplify? Only if you can show us "we're trying and we're still running into this"... The studies which have led, among other things, to this simplification have shown that, in particular, the borrowing system for how the government works was really problematic. I keep calling for it, and you will hear me say it very often: the government is at the bar and must also get to work. At the same time, what I have learned from Mr Van der Gaag is that enthusiasm works better than just saying it has to. They have to want it, too. That's why we bring parties together in such a governance agreement. However, in the new system that we are still sending to both Chambers with legislation, I also leave the stick of the levy behind the door, because the agreement must finally be maintained.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-10.u11	Last time on this point, Mrs Sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-10.u12	I still have doubts as to the extent to which the administrative agreement will succeed where the social agreement has failed. In particular, I wish the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations very much success with the administrative agreement. We all want that, but the concerns haven't been taken away yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-10.u13	I understand. The proof of the pudding is in the eating, in good Dutch. That's gonna apply here, too. That's why we asked to report. That's what we're asking the ministries because we want to see what happens. That's still important. For example, we have agreed with the Minister of Education on a course with education. This is very important, because they still train the young people who will also be in this target group for employment. Then you will also see that when the chairman of the PO Council, the chairman of the VO Council and a number of people who are administratively committed to this, something is actually going to happen. That makes me at least have a basic attitude of trust, but I say that I have become wise: trust is good, but control is sometimes better. So we're gonna check it out, too. The debate about the law that will be coming to the Chamber is not a non-binding debate, because it still contains the system of sanctioning. Mr. Chairman. I was at the monitoring. I also had an interrupting debate with Mrs Sent on this, so perhaps I can be a little brief on that. We ask the public sector to report annually on a work plan and the results. The Minister of the Interior will shortly send a letter to the House of Representatives on this matter. The new law will also include an evaluation clause to examine the results of the law. Ms Stienen asked for attention to be paid to regional and local government employers and specifically to smaller municipalities. I think it is very important that whatever we do has added value for employers. Not only for the government, but also for the market, whether they're big or small. What we want to do with the simplification that is yet to come, the elimination of the distinction between the market and the government, is to enable cooperation within sectors and between sectors. This also means that it will be possible for small employers to benefit from it. It is also an important task for the inspiration for the public sector employment agreement, namely to look in those regions at: what happened, what can we support and what opportunities arise? Very specific and concrete, but also because it works very well, we have asked De Normaleste Zaken to support meetings with employers in the region with subsidies from SZW. You can see that very practically in front of you: there are employers at the table who put their problems on the table and there are government representatives watching how they can solve these practical problems directly. At the end of that table, it will be considered whether this could also apply to others and whether this should be considered at a higher level of aggregation. Ms Sent asked about the possibilities of obliging government employers to create regular jobs. Or is stimulating enough? As far as I'm concerned, it's and-and not or-or. Employers have an obligation to create jobs. The quota system is ultimately an ultimate legal means of forcing, obliging employers to achieve the agreed jobs. This was the case in the old way of working, and this is also the case in the simplified way of working. I therefore do not intend to release the obligation in a simplified system. In addition to this ultimate obligation, however, both the Minister of the Interior and I consider it very important to encourage employers. That is what we want to do, although in the end it is the employers themselves who have to do it. Mrs Sent asked, also on behalf of GroenLinks, what measures are being taken to ensure that the government still complies with the agreement. I just said a few words about that. What I can add to that is that the Ministry of the Interior, together with SZW, has established the Knowledge Alliance. That's a portal where employers can get information about the job deal. I mentioned the office tables of The Normalest Case. The project Baanbrokers also came by, in which OCW and SZW together with the PO-Council and the VO-Council want more people to work in primary and secondary education. In reply to Mr Ester, I also indicated that the performance of the government has improved. Between the first and second quarter of 2019, 400 regular jobs have been created. So I am hopeful, because in the present period government employers have performed well. I say it quite honestly: we are not here yet, but that is encouraging to see.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-10.u14	The Secretary of State is an optimist; that is a credit to her and that appeals to me. Where would we be without optimism? But I think the Secretary of State is a little too naively optimistic. She just said, trust is good, control is better, so we're gonna check it out now. Now she says: we are taking all kinds of new initiatives. And: I have good hope and I see momentum. That's all very well, but trust was given to the government years ago not now, but then.... and that trust is embarrassed. The government didn't deliver. Honestly, I find the whining of government employers when they say it's so hard. Things that are easy, you could have done yesterday. The government is very well paid to do difficult things and it is also given the opportunity to do so. So where does the optimism of the Secretary of State come from? The government does not deliver what it needs to do year after year, while it can in the market sector. So the story that it can't be isn't right. So what's with the trust? We're gonna do it with fresh momentum. I'd like the Secretary of State to take it and then we'll take the stick off the table, because you say I'm keeping the law, but I'll deactivate it because that's the law we're dealing with today. Not the activation, but the deactivation of the quota levy. So how can this Chamber think it's gonna be okay? And most importantly: how do government employers now think? Do they think, "Oh, well, well, well, then Secretary of State Van Ark comes along and we get scared?" Or do they think: well, if it's been excused for three years, then the fourth year will also be excused? I would like to wish the Secretary of State her optimism, but I would also like to see some realism underneath it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-10.u15	I will try to indicate that too, but I may need a somewhat longer run-up, because the time span in which we are sitting is quite a special one. Originally, this law was sent to the Chamber with a number of technical maintenance cases, ranging from instruments that employers can use if someone is employed for more than two years to a number of practical matters about how laws sometimes need to be maintained. A letter of amendment was indeed sent to this law. Following a motion in the House of Representatives, it was then requested that no irreversible steps be taken, because they wanted a simplification. But that made it difficult, because in the original version of this law was also the decision of the previous cabinet to set the quota levy with, after consultation with the social partners, the agreement: we give them another year's chance to walk in. Then there was also to be a deactivation possibility, because, if they had walked in, there would be no deactivation possibility in the original law. This is all mixed up now, especially since I sent a letter to your Chamber in July on the plans for the future, for which the last letter of amendment is a foundation. I understand Mr Kox's question very well, but at the same time it also gives me optimism, because I can start to simplify, but the stick remains. For although we are still discussing what this looks like at the moment, the system remains: we note that there has not been a delivery and we are looking with the social partners to see what is also contained in the agreement under the social agreement in 2013 - whether there are special circumstances which require us to make a pass on the spot. And if you don't, the stick will leave behind the door. That will be no different in the new law. We'll look for a system that makes it simpler. If the UWV and the Tax Administration should have started working on the current system, they should have built an ICT system with a number of portals, every starting functional designer would have said: don't do it. In this sense, there was also a self-sufficient need for simplification. When the motion on the elimination of the distinction between the market and the government was tabled, I told the House of Representatives to give the motion the opinion of Chamber on one condition: the agreement remains the deal, both for the 100,000 and the 25,000. For me, that is the condition under which I can proceed with this simplification. That's also why I know my optimism: in the new system I can reward good behavior. That's what we want to do, but bad behavior actually punishes. That's not gonna happen either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-10.u16	Can the Secretary of State imagine that government employers who see the current bill can imagine: well, that stick goes into the closet for a moment and it seems to me very likely that that stick will not appear, so I feel no incentive to comply with this job deal anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-10.u17	That would be a very bad thing. Suspending doesn't mean it's off the table. I would also find it a very bad thing if that behavior were to be shown. In fact, if I were to notice that, I would not be able to meet the condition, as I just pointed out to Mr Kox. For me, that is the condition that I said in the House of Representatives: under that condition I can work on simplification. So I am also looking with a keen eye at what is actually happening. After all, it should not be done by a stick behind the door, but simply because you as a government have an example function and you notice that it is good if you have various teams. To do this, you hire people and create regular jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-10.u18	Then I have one additional point. I don't know if the Secretary of State is gonna talk about it anymore. This concerns the analysis of why market employers are lagging behind. This is not just about administrative burdens. This also has to do with the unfamiliarity of market employers with the subsidy schemes available, as shown by the study of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau. Is the Secretary of State going to talk about that? What activities can we expect from her in this field?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-10.u19	Sure, because this really is the core. Mrs Sent is at the heart of what we are doing right now. I'm just trying to get the right paperwork. Let's see.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-10.u20	It's okay to go later. It'll come up on its own.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-10.u21	Yes, but perhaps I am right to discuss it, because I too have seen the report that about 11% of employers employ people with a distance from the labour market, people with disabilities. So that means that a lot of employers don't have that. That is, of course, a thorn in the eye. It is true that the employers covered by those 11% are often larger employers, so the number of people who get a job is going well. But we want, of course, to share the ambition for this inclusive labour market with Mrs Sent, which is normal, and that is also normal, to have people of all kinds of backgrounds and with all kinds of characteristics and characteristics in the workplace. At the moment we see that employers are becoming increasingly familiar with the job deal. In the case of large companies, we really see that the vast majority, over 90%, know about the job deal. It becomes more difficult for smaller employers and companies. This is, of course, also more difficult, because administrative procedures are also becoming more difficult for them. In the broad palette of measures, the broad offensive, with which we want to take care of employers when employing people, we are also really committed to that service for employers. For this purpose, the amendment of the law is also sent to the Chamber. We do that on the one hand by streamlining business. Think, for example, of some companies that work within several regions and say: "One municipality transfers the wage cost subsidy every four weeks, but the other transfers it every six months. In one place I can ask for a job coach myself, but somewhere else I have to take one from the municipality. I can't work like this." We want to standardise some of these things. Well, at least that's ahead of us. In addition, we look at what they can do locally and regionally for each labour market region to bring people and jobs together in that matching process. This is done through Perspective at Work, which is an initiative from municipalities and employers together. Two years, 35 million per year, have also been allocated to the labour market regions. That is where proposals are currently being made from all these labour market regions on how this is going in that region. Aldermen of central municipalities are also involved. So there's a lot of ingredients on the kitchen table, I'll say. That is why attention is paid to this problem. I do not think that it is so much unwillingness on the part of employers, but that it is quite a big burden on very much smaller employers. Then I mean an administrative burden. If we can relieve that administrative burden, there are, I think, a lot of people who are eager to give a lot of people a chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-10.u22	That is not entirely the analysis of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau. The analysis of that agency is that there is no knowledge of the arrangements. It is therefore not perceived as an administrative burden, but there is simply no understanding of the subsidy schemes available.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-10.u23	That is also a good point to take into account. We want a single public point of contact for employers in each region, which makes it clear what the basic package of services is. That is also something concretely ahead of us to realize. Employers talk about this with the UWV and municipalities. We are indeed also looking at how to improve employers' service points. Mr. Chairman. I'm going to look at the questions about this particular bill. I have just said something about the relationship between this bill and the bill to simplify the Jobs Agreement Act. That would also be my answer to Mrs Sent, Mrs Stienen and Mr Kox's question. But we are now in a transition period and we now simply need the maintenance of the current system. We need to postpone the levy in order not to take irreversible steps during the transition period. Mrs Oomen also referred to the following. The question is: should today's law fail, employers, both public and market employers, will not be able to take advantage of the new opportunities offered by simplification. That would also mean in my analysis that fewer people can get to work. Mrs Stienen asked what year the zero measurement of the job agreement is based on, and whether the number of 125,000 jobs is ambitious enough. The jobs in the social agreement of 2013, 125,000 additional jobs, are therefore additional jobs compared to a zero measurement made in 2012. At the end of 2012, at that zero measurement, there were 75,179 jobs. This means that, together with the 125,000, there must be 200,000 jobs for people in the target group at the end of 2025. I share the view of the D66 Group that there are still far too many people from this target group. Until 2025, therefore, almost 75,000 additional jobs have to be created. That means that with this commitment many people will still have a chance at work. We have done research, also at the request of the employers. There was a look: do we have enough people to realize those jobs? That research into the size of the target group was done by Panteia. In addition, we have seen that the number of people in the target group is well proportional to the 125,000 additional jobs. We repeat that research into the size of the target group at the beginning of 2020. Maybe it's also good to mention the following here. In her contribution, Mrs Stienen referred to the quite large number of people in the Netherlands who live with a chronic illness or disability and therefore often work. Looking at that group, I see a very large group of people who can work without government facilities. There is also a group of people who can work with a device of the UWV, for example with a Braille keyboard or a visual tool. And there is a group of people who are unable to earn the minimum wage per hour on their own. Specifically for that last group, which actually came into the picture because of all the changes, specifically for that group of people who are not self-sufficient in earning the wml, that job appointment was created.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-10.u24	Mrs. Sent has a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-10.u25	A very short one, Mr. Chairman. I have another question about Mrs Stienen's contribution. She was talking about a bonus. But that is a proposal that is not part of the legislative proposal before us, but rather of a simplification that will come later in our Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-10.u26	That's right. I think he comes from the letter I sent to this Chamber on 4 July, which includes that proposal. So that's about the bill that hopefully will come. Mrs Stienen asked if I could simply explain the possibility of deactivation and the question of supervision and enforcement. I'm gonna try. One of the agreements is that it is actually still an agreement of the previous cabinet.... is that the quota regime will no longer apply if employers go back to the agreed numbers of jobs. In the bill, we call that the deactivation of the quota regime. I was just talking about the idea behind it in the conversation with Mr Kox. If you've realized enough jobs, if you've taken your chances, if you've taken that extra time, you don't need a stick anymore. Suppose the quota levy has been activated and the government employers have to pay an annual charge because they have not achieved enough jobs, but the year after that it turns out that they have fallen behind and they have made the deal. Then it is not right for them to have to pay a levy any longer, and that is why the quota levy should be able to be deported again. That was not in the most original legislative proposal, and that is why it is included in it. We have sent this bill to the UWV and to the Tax Administration, because they are actually the most important partners for the implementation of this law. Both services have indicated that the deactivation is feasible. I understand that in itself, because an activated quota is a very heavy administrative burden in the old system, and it is therefore easier if the task does not have to be carried out. With the UWV and the Tax Administration we are now working on the simplified bill and we are also using the experiences of the past three years. We do not really want to come up with new instruments, but we want to fit in with what we already have. That is what I say to Mrs Stienen, who asked what the new proposal would mean for the Tax Administration and the UWV. The services had also indicated that the current law, the current job agreement, is really a very difficult and difficult administrative task. The employers felt the same way, by the way. So now we are also working very closely with the performers so that what we make is also feasible. Mrs Stienen also asked about the abolition of the T+2 measure, where "t" stands for the year and the "+2" for the two years after that first year, and how we will measure the results. I always close a bit with formulas myself; I'd rather just write it out all the time. The reason behind this is actually just like this. In practice, it appeared that if employers employed people and those people stayed for more than two years, the employers no longer had the benefits they received because they had people from the target group at work, because after two years these people did not count for the job appointment. For example, employers lost their claim to the no-risk policy. They also lost their claim to the wage cost advantage for the target employment agreement. We all want sustainable jobs, but this meant that this group actually ran the risk of leaving after two years, so that new people could be hired again. We wanted to avoid that, because we want sustainable jobs. That also means that we have now decided to include the jobs. People are still included in the target population register, so the annual census includes their jobs in the job interview results. If I say it very formally, it is not so much the abolition of the T+2 regime as it is part of this legislative proposal, which we are dealing with in a decision. But this bill regulates the benefits, like the no-riskpolis.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-10.u27	I had also asked the Secretary of State if there would be an infinity. Or is there going to be a breaking point somewhere? Suppose someone under the Jobs Agreement gets a job and has worked with an employer for five or six years. Are those benefits still valid?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-10.u28	Yes. I'll just take a look at the officials. Yes. That's confirmed. That is, of course, the logic, because we simply want sustainable jobs. That is also a pillar under the broad offensive. Mr. Chairman. Questions have also been asked about the simplified system and whether it will be the same for the public authorities and the market. That's actually the future system. In any case, I am very pleased to have said that, even though that law is not even in the House of Representatives today, I am allowed to feel a little bit about it from the First Chamber which is considered important here, if we also look at the future. I would like to point out once again that all the changes must be aimed at achieving those 125,000 jobs. If we look at the future, the idea that is now on paper is that there will be no separate sectors. There's a macro deal for 125,000 jobs. So first the job deal applies and if the numbers are not reached, then the quota scheme will enter into force. During that quota period employers still pay a levy. In the situation that the quota scheme has been activated, all employers pay a levy, as we do now, and at the same time create an individual bonus for employers who do achieve the jobs. This means that we can reward very individual good behavior and punish wrong behavior. We want to join this tax and that bonus with existing instruments that employers and also implementation are already working with. Mrs Sent and Mrs Stienen asked: yes, that's all well thought, but doesn't that invite you to freeriding? That is a subject which was certainly also addressed by the Lower House. I think it will also be an important point in the legal process. The root and stick in the simplified system are large enough, also for the government employers, Mrs Stienen asked. I believe that making cooperation possible should not mean that it is being passed on. I look at Mr Kox with a slanted eye because I know that this is a very important point for him too. That is why I am still full of the agreements made in the administrative agreement. That also means, I repeat, that if that job agreement is not reached, we are going to activate the quota regime, as we are doing now. That means, I say in the direction of Mrs Sent, that possible freeriders are simply punished for their behaviour through a levy. The nice thing is that if you perform very well, you could also get a bonus in the new system. Mrs Stienen asked: if there is a bonus, if they are cooperating partners and if they want to distribute it, will they not receive administrative burdens? For me, it is very important in this law that we reduce the number of administrative burdens as far as possible. This is also an important issue when I ask the employers' representatives. That is also why I asked an external research agency to investigate this last spring. Employers themselves indicate that they expect the burden on employers to be limited, especially in relation to the current system, especially because we are in line with the existing instruments, as I have just said. But it remains very important that we provide good information. Large public organisations could also play an exemplary role in this. Mr. Chairman. I would like to answer a number of other questions from your Chamber, namely questions from the groups of PvdA, GroenLinks and the CDA on social employment. Mrs Sent and Mrs Oomen indicated that workers in the social services sector are excluded from the WAB, from the payroll rules, but people in the target group of the job appointment and new sheltered work are not. That's actually a very difficult situation. So, what's going on with the social partners talking? I'll just be honest with you, because I've done that in other places, so I'll certainly do that here too: this is a really complicated dilemma. If you work with the exception of certain groups, there is just a big dilemma on the table, because with the SAB we want more people to be taken into permanent employment. We want to prevent competition on working conditions. That means you want good and full work. It is about equal treatment in terms of working conditions compared to colleagues on the payroll. We also want employers to hire people directly. That is one side of the dilemma. The other side of the dilemma is that we also want people with disabilities to get to work as quickly and easily as possible. For this purpose, sending and broadcasting via payroll can be a successful way, just like employing this target group. If you are going to make an exception to the payroll regime, it can lead to people getting to work faster in posting structures. But it can also make it less attractive to hire people directly. The purpose of the SAB is precisely to ensure that it is not more attractive to send people than to hire them directly. We have made an exception for people who are paid out of social services, because they are already covered by the collective agreement SW. With the social partners and VNG and Cedris, we have really expanded, long-term and intensively sought a solution for the other target groups. However, we have not achieved a result that was supported by all the parties involved, because there is no separate collective agreement for people in the target group. So what did I do? At the request of the House of Representatives, I have created the possibility that if there is a separate collective agreement for these people as well, they may be rewarded under this collective agreement and not under the payroll regime. This exception may enter into force if a collective agreement is concluded. You know that this is not a matter for the Empire, but for the social partners, so neither the Minister nor I can play a role in this. However, we have promised to involve the social partners in setting up the monitor in which we will monitor the impact of the SAB on the target group. We'll do that before the end of the year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-10.u29	Could I also ask the Secretary of State if she has any opportunity to promote this collective agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-10.u30	I am very reluctant to interfere in a discussion that is really up to the social partners. The Lower House has asked for a ruling from the Chamber on this matter. But as a ministry, I don't see an opportunity for myself. I do know that this discussion is in the hands of the social partners.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-10.u31	Isn't it a matter of money?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-10.u32	I believe that financial resources will certainly play a role. I won't deny that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-10.u33	Mrs Oomen, for the last time on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-10.u34	Wouldn't it be possible to put a little more pressure on this through the VNG?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-10.u35	The VNG is, of course, also involved as an employer in this collective agreement. I also know that there are discussions, but it does not suit me to go into them. I'm afraid I have to say that. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Stienen asked if there are also people who get a disability if they already have a permanent job with an employer. I had just said a few words in advance about the different groups that we distinguish in the labour market, the support they receive and the facilities that are there for them. People who get a disability while they have a job do not belong to the target group job deal. So they don't count for the job deal either, but they may be eligible for the WIA and its instruments. What's the reason for that? We have defined the target group for the employment agreement in such a way that people who cannot earn the wml per hour on their own belong to the target group. In another way, they did not intervene sufficiently with regular employers. Mr President, I think I have answered the questions. If not, I'd love to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-10.u36	Thank you. We now come to the second term from the Chamber. I call Mr Ester.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-10.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Secretary of State for answering our questions. It was a beautiful and passionate debate. It's about something, too. We want an inclusive labour market in the Netherlands that offers every opportunity to people with disabilities. We have also discussed in detail the underperformance of the government itself in helping disabled people to get a job. The Secretary of State has presented an ambitious and thorough plan with which she intends to enter the catch-up race. My group has high expectations of this and would like to be informed about the progress of that plan. It is good to underline that the targets will continue to apply: 125,000 jobs at the end of 2025. How do we ensure that these are also sustainable and fully-fledged jobs, especially in this age of flexibilisation? I have a second question to ask, namely whether it was also considered whether it would have been better to come up with a single legislative proposal, both for the deactivation of the quota levy and for the simplification of the policy around the target group and the employment agreement, and the design of a bonus-malus scheme. Employers want clarity, you have said that several times today, but they are now presented in separate portions. Wouldn't it have been better to come up with one bill from that perspective? Isn't there a threat of fragmentation and fragmentation? Mr. Chairman. The ChristianUnion Group, given the appealing intermediate sprint of the State Secretary and the fact that it is essential to meet the targets in force, can agree to the one-off deactivation of the quota levy. At least that will be my advice to the group. That levy is a means and not an end. The aim is a labour market that offers a full place to people with disabilities, an inclusive society, not only in word but also in action. That is why we will support the motion for a resolution tabled by the SP, but I am sure that Mr Kox will introduce it himself shortly. Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-10.u38	Thank you. I call Mrs Sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-10.u39	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the groups of the PvdA and GroenLinks, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for her patient answers to our questions. We appreciate her optimism and enthusiasm. These concern some of the legislation that is not currently before us. In our opinion, and as I understand from Mr Kox's interruptions, some realism is desirable for him too. That is where we find the Secretary of State's analysis in support of the present legislative proposal rather lean. If the government is indeed a mammoth tanker, why would it move now? Where the Secretary of State calls attention to the administrative burden, employers indicate that they are not familiar with the grant schemes at all. Our Chamber also holds: trust is good, control is better. The Secretary of State has given the political groups of the PvdA and GroenLinks insufficient confidence that her optimism is also realistic. Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State has not been able to convince us that the proposal before us is a step in the right direction. The objections raised by the Council of State remain relevant. The adjustments are not intended to lead the public authorities to meet their obligations under the employment agreement in the short term, but in particular to give the government itself a further delay in fulfilling those obligations. In addition, the far-reaching adjustments already made to the Jobs Agreement and Labour cut quota Act have already considerably simplified the achievement of the target numbers, thus reducing the rate of activation of the quota levy. In view of the fact that both the target group register and the quota levy have lost credibility due to the changes that have been made and proposed, the question is what useful function the Jobs Agreement and Job Quota Act still has for achieving the intended goal: additional jobs for people with disabilities. It is, in the opinion of our groups, about the substance of that law. The effect on the credibility of the law in general and of the government in particular leads me to advise the groups of the PvdA and GroenLinks to vote against this bill. Mr. Chairman. I'll finish with a general reflection. In fact, I find it appalling that we need to set up a whole bonus-malus system to give people with disabilities a job in order to achieve an inclusive labour market.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-10.u40	Thank you. I call Mrs Stienen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-10.u41	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the D66 Group, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the clear answer to our questions. It is good that we at least agree in this house that an inclusive labour market applies to everyone, including those with disabilities. It has also become clear to my group that the Secretary of State, who can do even more, combines ambitions with realism that a root often works better, but that the stick of the quota levy remains, including for the government. Besides, I'm gonna leave it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-10.u42	Thank you. I call Mrs Oomen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-10.u43	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank the Secretary of State for the open and thorough answer to the questions we had. We said in the first term that we as the CDA Group trust and believe that this inclusive society will also be created in the labour market. That means that everyone can get a place and find it in that labour market, a place that is rewarding and rewarding. In fact, the Secretary of State has not responded to my comments that it is a shame that we needed this new agreement because we have put so many sw'ers in the Participation Act. I would like the Secretary of State to come back to that in the second term. Mr. Chairman. We support the Secretary of State's proposal that we should simplify in the administrative sense, but that they should not drop the commitments made to have 200,000 people in 2025 from the job agreement which also has continuous work. Thank you for that. Mr. Chairman. I understand the answer given during the interrupting debate to the question about the people covered by the WAADI. This was also discussed for a long time in the House of Representatives. But I could imagine that by the end of this year, when the SAB is set in motion, several thousand people will be out of work. I wonder whether it can still be so, when I understand the reasons for this, namely that you are not a collective agreement partner, that you will still be so optimistic about it. Mr. Chairman. Those were actually my reactions. One more comment on a law that I have never seen before and which will come to pass: if we are going to talk about administrative simplification for future legislation, I do not know whether bonus-malus systems are the right way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-10.u44	Thank you. I call Mr Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-10.u45	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for her enthusiastic way of reacting and her decided that in any case there is an agreement and that 125,000 additional jobs will be created in the market and in the government. She illustrates with her answers that she has all kinds of plans to get what isn't going well, anyway. That's to be commended. But at the same time, of course, reality is that things are not going well, actually from the beginning. However, back to the facts: the facts are that, when we went to introduce the Participation Act, we locked up the social workshops, stripped the Wajong and introduced the cost of care. On the other hand, there was the job agreement, which would be delivered. At that moment we put a lot of people literally and figuratively in the cold. They're still there. It is also not surprising that so much anger has arisen in society among the people who have not been given what we promised them. We often talk about people with disabilities, but they are also all people with an opportunity that, if we create the conditions properly, could do something. We know that for this particular group of people having that job might be even more important than for other people, if you can already see that. But we have also seen that in politics anger has arisen. Why, above all, do we not, as a government, ensure delivery while employers in the market sector can? We have even seen the particular case that my party leader across the street, together with the President of VNO-NCW, made an appeal: government, do something more, this is not going well, we are not keeping our promises, which is compromising our credibility. We have seen a call from Lilian Marijnissen and Hans de Boer, supported by FNV, Party of Labour and many other organisations, to give social work provision a second life, in a perhaps more modern form. That must be done, at least in order to have something to offer if all of the Secretary of State's plans do not deliver what they should deliver. In order to strengthen that plea and to give the Secretary of State an additional means of creating work for people who need it badly, I would like to table this motion, partly on behalf of a large group of political groups. The President shall: Mr Kox, Mr Oomen-Ruijten, Mr Sent, Mr Ester, Mr Van Gurp and Mr Van Rooijen proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the conclusion of the SCP that, since the introduction of the Participation Act in 2015, closing the social workshops, jobseekers with disabilities have no more but less job opportunities;]] [[having regard to the findings of trade unions and employers' organisations (in the SBCM study) that since the closure of the social workshops, disabled workers "have ended up in a forest of precarious employment and working conditions, in which the uncertainty for job restrictions is high while the target group needs more security";]] [[having regard to the Government's reply in the reply and the further reply to this Chamber that the government has so far proved unable to fulfil its obligation to create additional jobs for people with disabilities;]] [[having heard the argument of workers' and employers' associations that, in view of the disappointing results of the Participation Act, especially in the public sector, the social workshops should be given "a second life";]] [[calls on the Government to examine how a good infrastructure can be created in each of the 35 working regions to provide adequate shelter for people with disabilities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34956-G]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-10.u46	One last comment, in line with what Mr Ester said: are we not in the process of bringing about very crumbling legislation here, in which we take all kinds of steps, but not the step that would make clear to the people who are involved and to the field what we are going to do as a government? I share his fear that, if we do so, the persuasiveness of these different parts of the legislation will not be sufficient. I would also like to hear an answer to Mr Ester's question as to whether it would have been better to do it in one law and whether it would still be possible to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-10.u47	Is the Secretary of State able to respond immediately? That's the case. I'll give her the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-10.u48	Is the text of the motion still coming?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-10.u49	Yeah, we'll make sure of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-10.u50	Thank you. A number of questions were asked in the second term, for which I am grateful. Mr Ester asked how we are to ensure that they are sustainable jobs. This is, of course, a very crucial demand in a labour market that is becoming increasingly flexible and where this is really a vulnerable group. At the same time, a number of measures have been taken, such as the suspension of the t + 2 rule, which should lead to no incentive from the other side. Many of the facilities that people receive are structural and also sustainable. Many of the measures from the broad offensive, which are also subject to legislation in the Chamber, focus on sustainable work. Let me give you a small example. Various studies show that helping people to work is still possible, but that the vulnerability is in staying at work. This is, among other things, something that we want to make provision for through this legislation. Mr Ester asked whether it could not have been done in one legislative proposal. This bill actually took a run-up in 2017 and many of the discussions that we are having here today were not yet discussed at the time because of the situation that existed at the time to postpone it for a year, to have that bypass done, and also to deactivate it again. That is another decision of the previous cabinet; that decision was taken by my predecessor. So the origin of this law is actually in the previous cabinet. At the same time, there have been a number of issues of maintenance that cannot be delayed, such as the t+2 measure or the formulas that affect small businesses. I would almost say that we may have been a little overtaken by time, because the treatments are now running almost parallel. Simplification and consultation with implementation takes time. This means that we now have a law that will be able to provide some simplifications and a bit of technical recovery from 1 January. Mr Ester also asked: how can we remain informed? In any case, the First Chamber receives the measurements and also the results of the job appointment every year. I will also, of course, keep you informed of the plans for simplification. I also sent the letter of 4 July to the First Chamber. I will also ask the Minister of the Interior to share his letter on government work plans so that you can follow this dossier. With regard to Mrs Sent, I would like to make the following point. She has already indicated that she does not support the bill, but nevertheless asked the question: what is the useful function of this law; what is the credibility of the law? Of course, that is a very existential question. The law is and will continue to be aimed at achieving those 125,000 jobs. Certain elements stand in the way of that. We're dealing with the old system and the new system. That's just the case. This also means that maintenance is needed and a number of things are changed. I'm changing the law while we keep working at the same time to put those 125,000 jobs behind the door with a stick. So it is also the foundation of the system, because only with a workable law do we achieve the 125 000. In the direction of Mrs Stienen, I would like to say that we do have the root and the stick, no matter what she said. That's right. That is also what I would like to discuss with your Chamber in the follow-up phase. Mrs Oomen asked me to reflect on the situation in 2015, when many sw'ers entered the Participation Act and many people who had otherwise entered the Wajong entered the Participation Act. In the first period, that question was wrongly answered. It is important to point out that we will soon expect the evaluation of the Participation Act. We said at the time that there would be major changes and that we should keep our finger on the pulse. I imagine that evaluation of the Participation Act will also be sent to the First Chamber. In any case, the evaluation is in advance of the budget of the House of Representatives. They're expecting the evaluation around November 20th. I just want to look very carefully at what went well and what could be better. I also know that the research of the SCP has zoomed in on the group of people who were on the waiting list for the sw in 2015. Those are the 11,000 people whose job prospects are lower than you might have expected with the job deals. So that is a very specific group within the large group of people covered by the Participation Act, but a group that expected to flow into it. I also think it is important that I also respond to the motion that the sw companies are transforming into the position they have in the Participation Act from a place to work for a certain group of people to a development and expertise option from which they are seconded. There are a lot of sw companies going through that development. I also think that's very good. There are studies showing that certain groups in the Participation Act have more job opportunities. I think it would be a good idea to look at what is working for which group and what instruments, in the final analysis, it is a complete picture of how we can help people who are not self-employed. If I may, Mr President, I would like to ask the Chamber to be patient until that evaluation arrives. Mr. Chairman. In his motion under letter G, Mr Kox asked to examine how each of the 35 labour market regions could have a good infrastructure that would provide adequate shelter for people with disabilities. Here's what I'm gonna say. It may sound a bit domestic, but I also like to say it in the Lower House. I'm really a fan of sw companies. I like to get there, they do fantastic things and I see that they are transforming from classic, what inwardly turned organizations............................................................................................ At the same time, it is up to municipalities how they deal with their SW companies. The influx into the sw companies into the law has stopped, but the companies themselves still exist. We also have debates on this in the Lower House. I also asked the ESC to think along, because we do not want that knowledge and expertise to be lost. A Renkema motion has also been adopted in the Lower House, asking to see if you could create such a posting facility in each labour market region. The Kox motion actually puts a big line under the function of sw companies in the same way, especially because it concerns the infrastructure they offer each other. If I may include this motion in the implementation of the Renkema motion, in the context of the broad offensive, where it is really a matter of whether the labour market regions can get people to work, I would very much like to give it to the Chamber. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-10.u51	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-eerstekamer-10.u52	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. Then I suggest that we vote on the bill next week. Finally, I propose that we also vote on the motion tabled next week. I'm suspending the meeting for dinner break until 7:15 p.m.
