ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-4.u1	We will continue with a debate on the report of the General Assembly of the Kingdom Relations of 13 February. I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. I am the first to give the floor to Mrs Özütok on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-4.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A long time ago, at the AO, we discussed in detail with the Secretary of State about the BES islands and the countries of Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten. The GroenLinks group is concerned about the inhumane detention situation in the Pointe Blanche prison on St.Maarten. That's why I'm filing two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Netherlands has been convicted by the European Court of Human Rights for the inhumane detention in the Pointe Blanche prison in Saint Martin;]] [[Whereas the Netherlands is the Contracting Party to Human Rights Conventions and has the greatest administrative power to prevent and initiate human rights violations in the Kingdom;]] [[calls on the Government, in close cooperation with the State of Saint Maarten, to improve detention conditions on Saint Maarten in accordance with national and international human rights standards, and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Özütok. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-IV-46]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-4.u3	Well, actually, the factual observation that there are some inaccuracies in the motion. The Netherlands is not a treaty partner, but the Kingdom of the Netherlands. This is not the case with the Netherlands, but with the Kingdom of the Netherlands. That is fundamentally different. In addition, the motion calls for the country of the Netherlands, as the largest country within the Kingdom, to be given an active role. That is not described in the Staff Regulations. So Mrs Özütok is now changing the Statute by motion. That is possible and I very much agree with it, but it does not work that way. So I think this motion is impossible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-4.u4	I really don't see it that way. We often have this discussion with Mr Bosman. However, I await the Secretary of State's advice: how does he appreciate this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-4.u5	Finally, Mr Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-4.u6	It's not about how you see it, but it's about the facts. What is the legal responsibility, as laid down in the Statute? And then we can say that we see that differently, but then it becomes a bit factually free to discuss a Statute and responsibilities that are very sensitive, especially in Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin. And just to say by way of a motion that we will only settle that for a moment, because the Netherlands is the largest country within the Kingdom, and we will do so for a moment, I find totally inappropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-4.u7	The Netherlands, as a signatory to the UN Convention on Human Rights, is responsible as a signatory within the Kingdom. And you have a different interpretation of that, but I really do see it differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-4.u8	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-4.u9	I'll file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas internal administrative advice shows that there is a real risk of violating fundamental legal principles in the return of detainees to the Pointe Blanche prison in Saint Martin;]] [[calls on the government not to return prisoners to the Pointe Blanche prison in St.Maarten as long as human detention conditions are not guaranteed according to human law standards,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Özütok. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-IV-47]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-4.u10	Thank you, Mr President. During the AA, I drew a great deal of attention to the importance of the rule of law, including in the overseas parts of our beautiful Kingdom. I think we can all be concerned about this, given recent developments, for example in Saint Martin, but also in other islands and other places. Let us be clear: also in this beautiful Netherlands, integrity issues are the order of the day. It's more the question of how you deal with it and how you react to it. I don't do that from the perspective of "o, what a mess over there"; I do that from the CDA-optics I also pointed out in the AO that a Kingdom relationship is not a lath relationship, in which you only do a little bit with each other, but rather a family relationship. This creates obligations over and over again, for example in the discussion about the prison on St.Maarten. That also means you have to talk to each other on business. I have the ambition to deal with this in the near future: to give more substance to the family relationship in the Kingdom. That also fits my party's profile to a great extent, so let's do something about it. I have a question for the Secretary of State. In the budget debate, my colleague Van den Berg, together with colleagues Bosman, Van der Graaf and Diertens, has tabled a motion (35000-IV, No. 5) on a coordinated, structural approach to the problems of the BES islands in particular. I believe that this is also due to the administrative agreements. To what extent does this include constitutional aspects and good governance? To what extent does it take into account investment in future generations? In fact, I think there is a next generation in the Antilles that wants exactly what I want: to make life and governance on the islands possible in a proper, decent way. I think we should support that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-4.u11	Thank you very much. Then I give the floor to Mr Bosman on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-4.u12	Mr President, thank you. Human rights are of great importance, but they are a responsibility of the countries. That's what we've all agreed to within the statute. It's a national responsibility. Of course, we must appeal to the countries. The Statute has a horizontal relationship of authority. This means that the countries of Aruba, Curaçao, Sint-Maarten and the Netherlands are equal, regardless of their size, because that would affect them is nowhere in the Statute. It's an equal relationship of authority. There's no vertical authority ratio. There is therefore no obligation, of no one, to address the Netherlands on something that lies in an equivalent relationship of authority. I had a brief debate yesterday with the Minister for Legal Protection on the College of Human Rights. I was somewhat surprised, because if you look closely at the College of Human Rights, you can see that that is based on a Dutch law. It clearly states that it is for the Netherlands. I say once again explicitly that Bonaire, Saba and Saint-Eustatius belong to this, but not Aruba, Curaçao and Saint-Maarten. It's not a kingdom body. Hence my surprise at the fact that the College of Human Rights, the Dutch College, makes statements on matters taking place on Aruba, Curaçao and now Saint Martin, without the College of Human Rights having addressed Saint Martin; at least I haven't heard that yet. We are now going straight to the Netherlands, and we are going straight to the Council of Europe. I think that is a very special and clumsy matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-4.u13	This is a constant issue when it comes to the question of who is responsible. Is it about the Statute or is it also about international obligations? The European Court of Human Rights has condemned the Netherlands for the inhumane detention in the Point Blanche prison in Saint Martin. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-4.u14	That's completely impossible. The Netherlands is not a treaty partner. That is the Kingdom of the Netherlands, and then the Kingdom of the Netherlands must be addressed. So it's legally impossible. If this were the case, it would mean that the Statute is gone. The Netherlands will then be liable. In fact, then we are also obliged to intervene, regardless of what St.Maarten wants, or what Aruba wants or what Curaçao wants. That would be the reasoning. That is legally impossible because we have a Statute that is above the Dutch Constitution. The Statute regulates the interrelationships between Aruba, Curaçao, Sint-Maarten and the Netherlands, and we state very clearly in the preamble that this is on the basis of equivalence. If Mrs Özütok can tell me what the Statute says that the Netherlands is responsible for something, then I apologise immediately. But I haven't found it yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-4.u15	Finally, Mrs Özütok.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-4.u16	There are very competent lawyers at the European Court who have looked at it. That has a meaning for me. But not for Mr Bosman, apparently.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-4.u17	Quite simply: it is about the responsibilities we have invested within the Kingdom. A lawyer may say he's going to sue the Netherlands, but then he apparently doesn't know how the Kingdom works. I guess that's the problem. This does not automatically mean that the Netherlands is responsible, because we did not agree to this in the Statute. That is impossible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-4.u18	I would like to avoid a little bit of this discussion here, no matter how interesting it may be.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-4.u19	I like it, though.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-4.u20	But I would like to give Mr Van Dam the opportunity to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-4.u21	I would also like to be very brief. I think we should also be a little careful not to get caught up in some kind of statute debate, in a legal discussion, when the reality is that there is a prison in our Kingdom where people are detained in a way that I think we all do not want here. I can't imagine Bosman being bothered by that either. I am also greatly annoyed by the fact that the government in Saint Martin does not accept its responsibility. My specific question to Mr Bosman is whether he can imagine a situation where, if the government does not do what we would all like, there will be a moment when the Kingdom should intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-4.u22	I would point out that the Chamber has no authority. Mr Van Dam talks about what we would not want. That's not up to us at all. That's very colonial: what we wouldn't want. That is what Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten determine all by themselves. "What we wouldn't want!" It is so inappropriate to say that within the Statute, in which we are equal. Curaçao, Aruba or Saint Martin is not doing something we would like to do. You can't say that, can you? I find that really presumptuous! It can't be!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-4.u23	Finally, Mr Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-4.u24	Finally, I would like to make a comment, because we need to have this discussion at another time. I think I fundamentally disagree with Mr Bosman on that point. It's about the Kingdom. Our government, together with the ministers responsible, is the kingdom government, but there is no kingdom parliament. We are the parliament that appeals to this State Secretary, including his capacity in the Kingdom. I think that we still have a big discussion to discuss with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-4.u25	There is no kingdom parliament. So it would be presumptuous to say: then the Dutch parliament is the kingdom parliament. What does that say about the States of Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin? They don't count? This calls for a certain fundamental discussion, because we are really going on the beet mountain together. We are pulling everything towards us, because yes, we are the largest parliament. We happen to be talking to this Secretary of State. We are in a position to bring the government this way. And with that, do we make ourselves a kingdom parliament? It's bullshit, guys! We shouldn't do that!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-4.u26	We're gonna do the interruptions in two now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-4.u27	I just want to say that I am not suggesting that we are the kingdom parliament here. I would like to put that to the House for the record.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-4.u28	That picture was sketched, because we would happen to be able to appeal here to the Secretary of State for the functioning of the Kingdom Government. And that can't be true, because we're not. We can't; that's not the issue either. That's the statute. So I love that we're talking about the statute. That is at the heart of the problem we are in, because we do not know who is responsible now. There is frustration everywhere, because we have a Minister of Justice sitting there who sits back and says, "Oh, man, if the problem gets big enough, it's natural for the Kingdom. "Then we are all frustrated to see what to do. Because the story is "something has to happen on St.Maarten" and then it is a bit cowardly as "do it in conjunction." There's no other way. Otherwise you'll have to send the Marines. We don't have control. It's that simple. And that is the Statute, which certainly needs to be adapted. Mr. Chairman. Finally, what bothers me, even in the official or ministerial statements, is not recognizing the difference between the Kingdom and the Netherlands. The Kingdom are the four countries Aruba, Curaçao, Sint-Maarten and the Netherlands; the country The Netherlands is only the country The Netherlands. So if ministers, Secretary of State, anyone, or official documents talk about "the Netherlands," that's just the country and never the Kingdom. And the other way around, too. I would like to make that very clear. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-4.u29	Thank you. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Diertens on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-4.u30	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Secretary of State for answering the questions and commitments. I don't have any motions. Last week I was on a working visit to Bonaire and Curaçao during the recess, and despite all the rules, legislation and so on, I would like to get into the frame that we all have to make sure that the world gets a little better. That is why I would like to emphasise a few points and ask about the AA. Can the Secretary of State in relation to the Venezuelan situation insist on extending the Coast Guard's patrol guard to his colleague? Can the Secretary of State state state whether the emergency programme in the Curaçao neighbourhood is and remains part of the socio-economic support plan that is to come? I welcome the Secretary of State's commitment to check why the Mental Health Foundation did not receive financial support from the early recovery fund at Sint-Maarten. Despite the answer in the AO that there is no reason to worry about the fuel supply on Bonaire, after discussions with involved stakeholders at Bonaire, it appears that the risks are indeed seriously underestimated and that there is a need to quickly arrive at a plan for a transition phase in a short period of time. Does the Secretary of State and his colleague from EZK wish to take action to minimise the risks to the people of Bonaire? The Secretary of State has indicated that he would like to pay attention to nature in conjunction with agriculture when further implementing the Board Agreement on Bonaire. As the underwater nature is Bonaire's economic engine, my colleague Tjeerd de Groot will submit a motion to the Minister of LNV in which D66 asks for an integral plan to save the coral in the Caribbean part of our Kingdom. Can the Secretary of State and his colleague from LNV urgently draw attention to this in the further elaboration of the Administrative Agreement and the new Island Council? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-4.u31	Thank you very much. I understand Secretary of State is able to answer directly. Then I'd like to give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-4.u32	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Members for their input. Indeed, we have already had a wide-ranging discussion on it, so I shall confine myself to the motions tabled and the questions put to me. Let me begin with Mrs Özütok's motion in which she asks the government not to return prisoners to the Pointe Blanche prison in Saint Martin as long as human detention conditions are not guaranteed according to human law standards. As you know, those were my colleague Mr Dekker and I, who agreed last October with the Minister of Justice of Saint Martin on the improvement of the situation in that prison. I also have the frustration/disappointment that some of you have, because I do not think it is going fast enough. I believe that there should be much quicker work on improving conditions. In response to the small debate between Mr Van Dam and Mr Bosman, I think we can find something about the situation there. In the end, we are not talking about this, but we can find something. Why are we allowed to find anything? Because it's a kingdom matter. I'm just trying to make the connection between your two positions. But that is different from the fact that we here in the Dutch Parliament or the Dutch Government can ordain that it should improve there, because it is and remains a national responsibility. Mr Dekker and I have agreed with the Minister of Justice of Saint Martin to improve detention conditions, the situation in that prison. That's what it takes. It hasn't been in line for years, and it needs to be improved. That is what resources should be made available in the budget. So the Minister for Finance of Sint-Maarten will have to do something to prevent us from having the debate here in The Hague about where there is a responsibility for the country and then projecting it to the Dutch Parliament. That is wrong; Mr Bosman is quite right about that. It is precisely because we made these agreements with Minister De Weever that I informed the Chamber of 14 November last year that I must advise against this motion. Next to Mrs Özütok's second motion on the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights. Mr Bosman has just removed a few inaccuracies from the motion. I can add another one. That judgment wasn't about the Pointe Blanche prison. It was about the police cell Corallo was in. This is an essentially different location from the prison, and I am not trivialising the situation in prison. But that doesn't make the motion factually correct. So we have made agreements with Saint Martin to see how the situation there can be improved, because it is not acceptable that the situation as there was before the hurricane, but it has been temporarily aggravated by the hurricane. I agree with Mrs Özütok on that. The country of Saint Martin must invest in law enforcement and therefore in the quality of prison. But it's a matter of the land of Saint Martin. It is certainly not a matter for the Netherlands, but it is a matter for the Kingdom, because as a Kingdom Government we conclude treaties. Because of the inaccuracies in the motion, I must discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-4.u33	Where the Secretary of State said "the second motion," he means the motion in part No. 46 and where he said "the first motion," he means the motion in part No. 47. Finally, I would like to give Mrs Özütok the floor briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-4.u34	On the motion in part No. 46 says the Secretary of State that there are some inaccuracies. That's why I want to hold this motion. Let me think about a different wording.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-4.u35	Thank you. Is the Secretary of State ready? Or he wants to finish.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-4.u36	A number of questions have been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-4.u37	Then I'd like the Secretary of State to answer it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-4.u38	Yes. Let me start with the family feeling of...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-4.u39	Oh, I have to report the following.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-4.u40	Mr Van Dam spoke of the family feeling that came to his mind when he spoke of Kingdom relations. I have to say that I have that feeling, too, but in every family something happens and you have to be able to talk to each other about it. If we're gonna make the comparison with marriages, it's gonna get really complicated. I don't want to make it personal, but things happen there, too. That means you have to talk to each other. That is exactly what we are doing in relations with the countries, including in the ministerial consultations we have, for example, with the Prime Minister of Saint Martin and the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-4.u41	I would ask the people in the public gallery not to interfere in the debate. Proceed, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-4.u42	I had the impression someone was trying to interrupt me, but I couldn't understand what was being said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-4.u43	That interruption didn't come from the right place.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-4.u44	That's right. What we are doing is, in consultation with the countries, to bring about improvement measures. That requires efforts from both sides.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-4.u45	I'm suspending the sitting for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-4.u46	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-4.u47	So that means making appointments. If you're gonna make a deal, you're gonna have to keep it, too. That's what we're gonna see. There are major challenges, particularly with regard to law enforcement, and I fully agree with Mr Van Dam. It is also important to invest in the future. I fully agree with Mr Van Dam that we need to take these new generations with us and help them to ensure that issues of good governance and integrity are discussed. We do not assume that there is integrity everywhere. Mr Van Dam himself rightly said that this is not the case in the Netherlands either, but it is a question of how to deal with violations of integrity. How do you pick that up and what's the standard you're going to follow? I can tell you that we have a great deal of contact on various islands with the new generation, in different ways, including the working visits I myself make, in order to encourage them to take up active citizenship and to shape themselves to the young countries and, as far as public bodies are concerned, to the islands which have been part of the Kingdom of the Netherlands since 10-10 in the new constellation. That is not insignificant and we must continue to do so. I would therefore like to take over the plea to continue with force. Just a governance agreement on Bonaire or a Saba Package for Saba are examples that show how we want to pack these kinds of elements in it. As far as the legal aspects are concerned, of course, it concerns the countries in particular. That's the discussion we just had about Saint Martin. In addition, you can see that improvements are needed and are possible in a number of areas. Then Mr. Bosman. He gave a brief outline of the Statute, which is not insignificant, because we go back to it every time: how is it organized, how do we relate to each other and who does what? I welcome his contribution, and I look forward to the further debates that will take place on this subject. Mrs Diertens had a number of questions about the situation regarding Venezuela, also in relation to the fuel supply on Bonaire. We are keeping a close eye on that. I was in Bonaire in January and took part in the Fuel Steering Committee chaired by the authority. We have also seen that the various departments, IenW and BZK, but also the people on the ground, are doing everything to ensure that we are prepared for eventualities, for situations that we cannot foresee now and which we cannot say will never happen but which we hope will not take place. At the moment there is no need to worry about fuel supplies, but this remains a point of attention, because the situation in Venezuela is being monitored day by day and we have already experienced that it can become critical. So we are in good consultation, including with the public body.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-4.u48	Mrs Diertens, after all, because we are running out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-4.u49	I do have a question. I get the answer twice that there is no concern, when I have spoken to people there. Three meetings have been postponed from the Ministry this week, while the people there are not sleeping because they are very worried. I would therefore like to ask the Secretary of State to contact his colleague from EZK to see how it can really be speeded up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-4.u50	I didn't get those signals, so I'd like to know where they came from. I'm not saying there's never any cause for concern, we stay alert. But at the moment there is no cause for concern and we are monitoring the situation closely, including in that steering group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-4.u51	Mr Bosman, all in all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-4.u52	I had asked a very short question about the College of Human Rights. What status does that have and has something changed in the legal framework with regard to that college, which is basically Dutch? And I had asked the Secretary of State to bring the difference between the Kingdom and the Netherlands to the attention of colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-4.u53	The Secretary of State has already dealt with that. But if he still has a supplement...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-4.u54	When Mr Bosman talks about colleagues, he means his colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-4.u55	No, your colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-4.u56	My colleagues? They know that. The difference between the Kingdom and the Netherlands is clear to me. But if that's necessary, I'd like to do it. The College of Human Rights is a Dutch college, accredited by the UN, with jurisdiction for the Netherlands in principle. It's not a kingdom college. Then there were two more questions from Mrs Diertens, after which I am finished. Those questions were about nature and agriculture in relation to the Administrative Agreement. Do I want to get in touch with the Executive Board, and possibly with the new College after the elections on 20 March? I have promised this before: I am happy to be prepared to do so. With regard to the Coast Guard, I would refer you to the Presidency of the Coast Guard, in which this kind of agreement is made. On my most recent visit, I also mentioned the always scarce capacity to be distributed, while also taking into account the situation at Bonaire. So that's what we're watching.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-4.u57	Thank you. The Secretary of State for the Interior remains with us for a while, because we are going to talk about the report of a general consultation on E-ID/passports, held on 21 February.
