ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u1	We are going to have a debate on the amendment of the Housing Act in connection with the introduction of a certification system for work on gas combustion plants. I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Infrastructure... Sorry, ma'am. I would like to welcome the Minister. I see five spokesmen on the list of speakers. I will allow two interruptions per group in this first term. The interruptions are in two instalments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u2	I call Mr Smeulders from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about central heating boilers, their safety and the mechanics who are responsible for this. Heating technician is a wonderful profession. I happen to know that because my father has been for years. It is still true that if I drive through Helmond or surroundings with him, he says: there and there I once made the heating. There is one place where I think he made the heating very often, namely in clubhouse D'n Doel van Houts Welvaren. That's an arch club where he's been very active for 40 years. Last month he even received a ribbon for his commitment to that association and I am quite proud of that. Mr. Chairman. As you know and as colleagues know, GroenLinks stands for a sustainable future, a future in which we are no longer dependent on fossil fuels. As far as we are concerned, the present law is therefore a temporary regulation and in the long term no gas combustion plants are used to heat buildings. However, since this is not settled overnight and during the transition to a sustainable future we need to ensure that there are no accidents with gas combustion plants, it is good to bring about a legislative change. Why is this bill important? In 2015, the Research Council for Security presented a report which shows that every year in the Netherlands people are killed by carbon monoxide accidents. The official figures show that five to ten people are killed each year. 200 other people are injured. But according to the OVV, it is likely that the actual numbers are three to five times higher. So we're talking about maybe 50 fatalities a year. The conclusion of the OVV that the problem of carbon monoxide poisoning is underestimated, GroenLinks can unfortunately only endorse it. It is time for us finally to do something concrete about this, because the figures on the number of victims are not falling. Mr. Chairman. The reason for so many casualties every year is that the construction and maintenance of incineration plants are not always carried out properly. As a result, victims not only fall in the case of obsolete plants but also in the case of new ones. Installers, mechanics and residents themselves are often not sufficiently able to assess whether the installation or maintenance has been properly performed. It is therefore very important that quality labels are produced. My group can therefore support the present legislative proposal in principle. But we still have a few questions for the Minister. First of all, the question of whether we are doing justice to the important report of the Research Council with this proposal. In fact, the OVV has made six recommendations and my group would like to hear what has been adopted and what has not been adopted by the Minister and what is perhaps going to happen next to this legislative proposal. I would also like to know from the Minister what is happening at European level to make gas combustion plants safer. Following the recommendations of the OVV, has the Netherlands also advocated uniform regulation at European level to improve the safety of households? Then there is the question of what quality labels will look like in practice. I say this with emphasis in plural, because once we have read the documents correctly, we see that the Minister leaves open the option that may apply different standards to different installers. Can the Minister say something about the quality requirements in terms of content? How does it prevent a total confusion for consumers if several standards are introduced in the near future? As a result, my group is very curious to see how consumers are informed about the legislative amendment. How are they going to find out in a way that is easy to understand for everyone that they are not allowed to work on their own installations and that it is really necessary to have a certified installer in the arm? How do we keep it understandable to everyone when the different parts of the regulation come into force at different times? Mr. Chairman. Then there's enforcement. It is prohibited for installers as well as for users or owners to tinker to gas incineration plants without certification, but how is that ban actually maintained? Do municipalities have sufficient resources to enforce the ban? How does the enforcement element of this bill relate to the recently accepted Quality Assurance Act before building? Congratulations on that, I'll tell the Minister. Does the Minister share the view that, in order to bring about a cultural change, it is very important to focus more actively on enforcement, especially at the outset, so that the legislation will also have a rapid effect in practice? Finally, what are the sanctions imposed in breach of the law? I'd like to get a response from the Minister. Can it also comment on the difference in the level of sanctions between installers and users and on the relationship between administrative and criminal enforcement of this legal provision? Mr. Chairman. This law ensures that installers are legally required to be certified. This means that they are all being trained. It seems very good and logical for GroenLinks to use that moment to provide installers with immediate knowledge and skills on alternatives to natural gas-fired heating installations with a view to a natural gas-free future. Is the Minister therefore prepared to ensure at AMvB that installers are also prepared for alternatives to gas? This may prevent installers from having to be retrained twice. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. I am also considering tabling a second-term motion on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u4	A question from Mr Ronnes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u5	That sounds very practical. It actually sounds like music to me. All I understand is that there are 34,000 installers who have to get that certificate. Is it then real to expect that one transitional year will be sufficient? Isn't the certification of these people slowing down? What do you think is priority: this practical approach or making sure that those installers have the knowledge they need to install that case as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u6	I think that is a very fair question. I think it's both extremely important. It is important that as many people as possible get the certificate quickly, but I think we also agree that it would be a bit of a shame to do one now and not the other. I am also very curious about the Minister's response to this, because it is a dilemma for all of us how we deal with it. I'm quite willing to deal with that practically. So I hope we can find each other on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u7	Okay. Then I'll wait with you for the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u8	That's always good. Mr. Chairman. I will conclude with one more question about the evaluation. The Minister writes in the note following the report that the law will be reviewed after five years. Does this mean five years after the entry into force of the first part or five years after the entry into force of all parts? So much for my first term. I look forward to the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u9	Thank you, Mr. Smeulders. We are now going to listen to Mr Ronnes' input from the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The carbon monoxide research report - Underestimated and misunderstood danger, of the Safety Research Council, is clear: around five to ten deaths and 200 injuries due to carbon monoxide accidents every year. The OVV thinks the actual numbers are three to five times higher. That's very worrying. It is a good thing that this legislative amendment is going to do something about this, because it is about human lives. Behind the cool numbers mentioned by the OVV, a lot of suffering is hidden from people who have to miss loved ones because carbon monoxide causes annual casualties. There are misunderstandings about carbon monoxide poisoning. So many people think it's an old-fashioned problem that only occurs in old-fashioned geysers with insufficient ventilation. However, research carried out by the OVV shows that almost half of the carbon monoxide cases have taken place in recent years with a central boiler. The OVV further concludes that the majority of accidents are caused by the failure of installers to do their job properly. It is therefore a good thing that there should be stricter professional requirements. Any mechanic who wants to install a device and put it into service will have to pass a theoretical and practical test, regardless of the level of education and diplomas. As I said just now in the case of interruption, about 34,000 mechanics work in the heating technology. A transitional year is foreseen. My question to the Minister, who is in line with the debate, is whether it will succeed in getting all those 34,000 mechanics to succeed within that time. Despite the new Quality Assurance for Building Act, the municipality remains responsible for monitoring compliance with the law. But that control will mainly be administrative. The municipality may impose periodic penalty payments on non-certified companies which fall through the basket in the case of samples. Clients are also punishable when an uncertified installer connects or maintains a device. Business clients commit an economic offence. Is this going to be sufficient in practice to shape enforcement alongside all the other priorities that exist in the area of enforcement for municipalities? Are municipalities sufficiently aware of this role? We are curious how enforcement by municipalities will work in practice. Municipalities can act on signals and, if necessary, have the use of a central heating system terminated. We also ask the Minister to actively monitor the risk-driven authorities themselves. Municipalities know very well where the risks are, but are they really going to do something about this? So we see that the responsibilities are shifting. The crucial question now is whether all parties know their role and whether they can act on a roll-call basis. How are all the parties concerned informed about this in addition to the municipalities? Is the Minister convinced that all concerned are aware of their role in this new scheme? Mr. Chairman. We have also expressed our concerns about the liability of municipalities. Can municipalities be called upon to deal with any accidents? The Minister says that municipalities are not responsible for carrying out the work on a gas combustion plant and cannot therefore be called upon to deal with any carbon monoxide accidents. Thank you for that clear answer, because many municipalities were unclear about it. Still, last but not least, the costs. The installation of CV installations is becoming more expensive. Are there also any savings to be made in the design so that these costs can be contained or reduced? In addition, after three years, it seems appropriate to evaluate both the costs of citizens and what this means for installers, who work in the industry, for example, as a self-employed person or in small businesses. We have already prepared an amendment for this together with the VVD. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the question raised by other parties: should there be an obligation on carbon monoxide detectors? The Minister has previously told us that this is complicated through legislation, but that she will discuss it with the sector. How's that conversation coming? Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This was my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u11	I have a question about what Mr Ronnes said about the evaluation. This is in line with Mr Smeulder's question. You indicate that you would like to see an evaluation earlier, but then the crux or that evaluation comes three years after the system has fully entered into force or three years after it enters into force. I can imagine that you would not be able to do a good evaluation if you did it very shortly after the system fully entered into force.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u12	No, I didn't. We do think that we should mark that point and make sure that we do that review three years after the law enters into force. We'll always have to keep our finger on the pulse if there's any indication that you should do another evaluation. Of course, that can always be decided by the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u13	The Minister also stated in her reply that she wanted to monitor at least. This is, in turn, separate from the evaluation, but by the time all these bodies are rigged and certified, Mr Ronnes is already almost evaluating again. Is that really useful?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u14	That is true, but if we assume that it should be fully implemented in 2021, which is less than two years from now, and that it will be evaluated after three years, then at least you have been working in practice for one or one and a half years. Then you have been able to see how it works and what the effects are on the costs for the citizens, the clients. You can also see the effects on costs for, for example, the companies that work in this industry. It seems to us three years or a reasonable period of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u15	It is now time for Mrs Van Eijs from D66 to speak. Thank you, Mr. Ronnes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u16	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In addition to a suitable home for everyone, D66 also wants a safe home for everyone. Unfortunately, five to ten more people die every year from carbon monoxide poisoning. In its 2015 investigation, the Safety Research Council states that the actual number of victims is much higher. The fact that the problem has not yet been resolved is also demonstrated by reports from the Brand Wounds Foundation and the Fire Department that by the end of 2018 40 people with carbon monoxide poisoning had been admitted in six weeks. This shows that it is really important for us to talk here today about reducing carbon monoxide poisoning. D66 wants to talk today about what we can do about it. So we are talking about certification of mechanics, fail-safe installations, monitoring of the certification system and the knowledge people have about carbon monoxide and carbon monoxide poisoning. Mr. Chairman. If we want to avoid these many carbon monoxide victims, and I think we all want to do so, then it is very important that we have skilled professionals who provide our gas boilers. D66 is therefore in favour of the Minister's plans to require certification for most people. This increases the knowledge of mechanics and reduces the risk of malfunctioning installations. It is also a good thing that the sector itself can make proposals on how to increase the level of knowledge of mechanics and how to test it. After all, professionals in the sector know what good and safe maintenance means. At the same time, we are also receiving signals, including from the regulatory review authority, that the regulatory pressure is increasing significantly through certification. How does the Minister ensure that small businesses andzzp'ers can also obtain a certificate in the future? Mr. Chairman. In the coalition agreement, we agreed for the safety of the Groningen people that 30 000 to 50 000 homes should be taken from natural gas every year. By the way, I had written this down before this morning's news reached us. So we see that it remains topical. However, safe gas incineration plants will still have to be used until 2050. The best alternative is the use of fail-safe installations, which automatically shut down when carbon monoxide is released. I understand from the explanatory statement that it is technically possible to use such installations. However, the Minister points out that this requires European coordination. What can the Minister do to speed up this alignment? How can the sale and use of such installations be encouraged until then? As has been said, the technology behind gas combustion plants is developing steadily. The Advisory Committee on Control Pressure therefore advises to monitor the effectiveness of the system in the coming years. How is the Minister going to shape this monitoring? How is it going to look at the costs and the regulatory burden, but also at whether the system is really helping and reducing the number of carbon monoxide poisonings? Municipalities have previously indicated that they did not see any added value in the public control of compliance with the certification by municipalities until further details have been developed as to how that should be done. In her reply, the Minister writes that municipalities check on a sample of residents that the boiler is safe enough. However, do municipalities have this expertise? And if they do not have it, who will they hire it from? Which party that we have not yet been able to see in the system should they obtain this expertise? According to the OVV report, network operators are often designated as supervisors abroad. Can this also be a good alternative in the Netherlands? Does the Minister see any other possible alternatives? In the new system, residents and landlords seem to be responsible as clients. They will be fined if they have maintenance carried out by an uncertified mechanic. In this case, how do we ensure that this responsibility is widely known to the client, in addition to a register in which these certified technicians are listed? A colleague has just mentioned that there may be more than one label. How are residents and clients going to find the forest through the trees? And how does it actually work in practice for tenants, who are not themselves owners of the property and perhaps not the client? Do they address their landlord about the certification of the installer who comes by on behalf of the landlord? To what extent is this really possible for them in the current housing market? Mr. Chairman. Apart from ensuring well-functioning gas combustion plants, the level of knowledge of residents also plays an important role in carbon monoxide safety. The question remains whether residents are sufficiently aware of what to do if carbon monoxide is released into their homes. According to a recent survey by the Dutch Brand Wounds Foundation, out of ten residents underestimate the risk of carbon monoxide poisoning. Nor does one in three know what to do in the event of carbon monoxide being released. What can be done to increase the knowledge of residents about this? Have previous campaigns, for example, in 2017, had a positive impact on this level of knowledge? And what can we learn from this? In short, Mr President, this proposal offers the possibility of reducing the number of victims of carbon monoxide poisoning. With a certificate for installers, we can ensure that our boilers are more securely maintained. But in order for this not to become a paper reality, supervision of the system must be properly regulated. The use of fail-safe installations seems to us to be such a logical and self-evident step that we would like to hear how we are going to take that step towards safer boilers. Finally, by increasing the knowledge of residents, we need to reduce accidents caused by carbon monoxide poisoning even further. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u18	Thank you, Mrs Van Eijs. I call Mr Kops of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Just yesterday, BNR reported that the number of carbon monoxide poisoning victims remains unprecedentedly high. Since last fall, at least 74 people have been taken to the hospital, and two of them have died. Today we are talking about certification for work on gas combustion plants. People who do not know about gas-fired central heating boilers should no longer be able to tamper with them on their own. That's the bottom line. The aim is to reduce the number of deaths and injuries. So: more safety, fewer accidents. Who's against that now? Good. Now to the criticism. The so-called establishment law has been abolished. Since then, anyone wishing to do so may call themselves an installer and install and maintain a central heating boiler. This would improve the functioning of the market. Now, years later, the Minister seems to want to restore this by means of this bill, through certification. So: first abolish it, then put it back in later. In addition, the same arguments used at the time of the Establishment Act are used. I quote: 'Freedom of establishment has made it possible for everyone, competent or incompetent, the professional as well as the bunny, to settle down and thus start a business'. Mr. Chairman. Certification, it all sounds good. The question is, of course, how does the Minister prevent some sort of theoretical safety from arising with this certification, a paper sham safety? How is certification really going to lead to safer CV installations and fewer accidents in practice? In the note following the report, the Minister writes: "There is a group of mechanics who do not have the necessary skills. However, for this lower-educated group, they may not independently put a gas combustion plant into operation. This will always require the use of a mechanic who meets the necessary professional requirements." This means that mechanic 1, without professional competence, may do the job at the customer's home at the central heating boiler, but that mechanic 2, with professional competence, must also be present, in order to finally plug into the socket. Two mechanics would be. This leads to double costs, and no company is waiting for that. The Minister explicitly contradicts it, but doesn't this "two mechanics and double costs" actually exclude the group of lower-educated mechanics? Or does this in practice mean that mechanic 1 without competence eventually plugs the plug into the socket? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Then there's enforcement. The Minister writes that samples can be carried out, even when the work is being carried out. Can the Minister explain what is the use of a control? Because if a controller is practically looking over the shoulder of a mechanic, he obviously leaves it out of his head to throw the hat at it. The Minister states in the explanatory statement that the VNG indicated that the supervisory role of the municipalities in the legislative proposal was not sufficiently developed. In response, the Minister talks about "stimuli" that the certification system should provide to discourage infringements. The question is whether these incentives will work if we can already see that enforcement will be insufficient. Which illegal mechanic or installer is discouraged by this? Are the beunhas actually sufficiently affected? And if the answer to that question is "no," then it is precisely all professional benevolent installers who are being chased at cost through this whole system and are being saddled with extra work. And of course that is not the intention. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. At present, labels and quality labels issued by the industry itself exist to which installers can join on a voluntary basis. The more labels and quality labels, the less clear it all becomes, especially for consumers. Will the new certificate that this law introduces replace all other existing labels and labels? That would make it clearer, because how else should consumers know what they can and cannot trust? Take, for example, OK CV: a voluntary quality label, developed by Techniek Nederland. OK CV also receives financial support from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, from this Minister. So there is already a label that is supported by this minister. Wouldn't it have been much easier to make this label mandatory, either with all kinds of modifications? I'd like a response. About the new certificate, the Minister writes: "The consumer is sure that he is dealing with a certified company." Furthermore, she writes: "Installers who do not have a certificate but do so can be called upon by consumers to act illegally." Of course, that all sounds good, but is this going to happen in practice? A consumer does not first consciously go with a mechanic without a certificate in the sea and then appeal to him. The only thing that consumer can actually do is not turn on a mechanic without a certificate at all. How is the Minister going to ensure that consumers only get involved with a certified mechanic? A person who Googles very simply to a company can't even be blamed if he doesn't have an eye for a mandatory certificate and instead lets himself be convinced by all kinds of labels and, of course, the price of the work. The price is still often leading. I'd like a response. Finally, Mr President. The financial impact on companies. Are the costs to the smaller companies, the sole proprietors in particular, to be borne? Will they have to pass on a larger proportion of these costs to consumers than larger companies? And what does that do with their business and their competitiveness? They could simply sell themselves out of the market. Finally, Mr President, I should like to say a few words. The Minister writes that structural regulatory pressure will decrease in the coming decades. And why? I quote: "The cabinet is aiming for a gas-free building stock by 2050." Finally, can the Minister guarantee that this bill and, in concrete terms, the non-provision or withdrawal of certificates will not be abused for that terrible climate transition, in order to ultimately get the whole country off the gas? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u20	Thank you, Mr. Kops. Finally, Mr Koerhuis of the VVD has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u21	Mr. Chairman. A safe house is important to everyone, but every year people are killed and injured by carbon monoxide poisoning. 128 injured and one dead in 2018. 203 injured and seven dead in 2017. These are just the figures that are known. According to the OVV, the Security Research Council, there are actually three to five times as many. Colleagues before me said it, too. There's gotta be another way. Every Dutchman who dies of carbon monoxide poisoning and every Dutchman who is injured by carbon monoxide poisoning is one too many. This Chamber has already discussed the investigation of the OVV. The OVV report shows that almost half of carbon monoxide poisoning in the house is caused by CV installations. The OVV mentions the lack of competence of installers as one of the causes. That is a serious matter. An ordinary house owner or tenant is difficult to estimate whether an installer is competent. An ordinary house owner or tenant gets an installer at home over the floor and assumes that it is a good installer. They often look at quality labels and labels such an installer has, but these are voluntary labels. The OVV has shown that these do not provide sufficient guarantees for safe maintenance. This law therefore proposes to impose conditions on certification schemes and to prohibit installers from carrying out work for which they do not have a valid certificate. Mr. Chairman. The VVD believes that you should be able to trust that the installer installs your CV properly. A safe house is important to everyone. The law we are discussing today must ensure that confidence returns as far as the VVD is concerned. I do have a number of questions for the Minister. Many of the conditions for certification schemes are not set out in this law, but in the rules that the Minister later elaborates. Can the Minister provide guarantees so that the process of approving these certification schemes does not become too complicated? In any case, I, together with Mr Ronnes of the CDA, propose an amendment for an evaluation clause, which will evaluate the law after three years. The evaluation should monitor the following two points. The first is the improvement of the safety of CV installations. The second point is the effect on regulatory burden and costs for both companies and households. Can the Minister explicitly undertake to include these two points in the evaluation? In addition, this proposal introduces a new system of certification schemes. The Minister's explanatory statement says something about this, but it is not quite clear to me how this system is going to work. I would like to know from the Minister how she sees this system and how long it will take until this new system is in place. A specific point is how the Minister sees the training requirement in the new system. Can the Minister say a little more about this? For the VVD the discussion is now too much about the process and too little about the content, the competence of installers. What is the Minister going to do on this particular point? Mr. Chairman. We also see a notification requirement for accidents with carbon monoxide problems. That's good. However, there will be no obligation to report emissions problems, while almost all accidents investigated by the OVV involved the release of both carbon monoxide and exhaust gases. Can the Minister extend the notification requirement for near-accident carbon monoxide to exhaust gases? Another question from me is about the control pressure and the costs for the installer, and ultimately also for the resident. In 2016, the Minister investigated additional regulatory pressure and additional costs for the installer as a result of this law. The conclusion at that time was that the additional regulatory burden and additional costs were low, but the implementation, as I said earlier, comes into line with the rules that the Minister later worked out. This makes it difficult for the Court to assess whether the law does not lead to high regulatory pressure and high costs. How does the Minister see this? Has the Minister carried out the SME test? If not, I shall table a motion for this. Can the Minister promise that installers will not be left with high regulatory pressure and high costs, which will be passed on to households? Finally, Mr President. The OVV claims that in many cases there are technically good resume boilers but research by Kassa shows that there are 150,000 dangerous CV boilers of the AGPO Ferroli brand. The Minister has already indicated that the Dutch Food and War Authority is investigating this. That is good, but I also want the Chamber to be kept informed of the results of that investigation. We also want a 0800 number to be opened for delivered homeowners and tenants who have a boiler of the aforementioned brand. I would also like a commitment from the Minister that appropriate measures will be taken in response to the results, e.g. by calling back dangerous CV boilers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u22	Thank you, Mr. Koerhuis. I shall now suspend the sitting for 20 minutes and then the Minister will answer the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u23	I give the floor to the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u24	Thank you. I know that I am very much like my colleague, the Secretary of State of I and W, so I understand the confusion at the beginning of this sitting. Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the amendment of the Housing Act, more specifically the certification of work on gas combustion plants. I have listened carefully and heard that all the spokesmen have stressed the importance of this today. Of course, they all referred to the report of the Research Council on Security, which dates back to November 2015. In that report, the Research Council investigated carbon monoxide incidents. And indeed, many have said it this morning: the Research Council has indicated that, on the basis of the information available to the Council, there are at least five to ten fatalities and hundreds of injuries a year due to carbon monoxide incidents and that the actual size could be even higher, by a factor of three to five. That is extremely serious. The Research Council has also noted that these incidents are often the result of the act or failure of the installer and that it can occur in both older and new installations. Hence the recommendations of the Research Council. Today we are discussing the implementation of the recommendation to establish a legal framework for the work on gas combustion plants. This is a system which ensures that the work and skills of the installer are carried out properly, with good checks on the work carried out, because, according to the Research Council, this is often lacking in practice. Carbon monoxide, we know, unfortunately, we're dealing with a real assassin. You don't smell it, you don't see it, and even the symptoms aren't recognized. But it can have a deadly effect. It is also very important for me to implement the recommendations to ensure that this kind of tragic accident is reduced as much as possible in the future. The new system, which we are now working on, is a legal system. And with this legislation, the safety of the gas combustion plants and thus the safety of the inhabitants are best guaranteed. This actually covers the whole process, from the installation to the commissioning of the works and the checks on them. I have noticed that there is broad support for this in the installation industry as well as in consumer organisations. The development of the legal system is carefully designed, also in good consultation with the sector, which, of course, we need very much. In the explanatory memorandum to the legislative proposal and in the answer to the written questions put by you, we have taken this into account. Just for all the clarity: so it happens in two steps. We are talking today about the amendment of the Housing Act. That's what's happening today. This change of law is necessary in order to be able to develop this system in the 2012 Building Decision. So we are actually talking today about the legislative amendment, but that second part of course has already started. That amendment to the Building Decision is necessary, and this will be done through a general measure of governance that will be submitted to your Chamber. Then there is the change that is before us today. It is necessary to create a basis for that further development. This concerns the inclusion of the work to be designated which should not be carried out without being certified and the possibility for the Minister to designate certification schemes and the certifying body. Now I see that Mr Ronnes is at the interrupting microphone. I think I know what he's gonna ask and I think I'm gonna answer that, but I'm gonna wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u25	Then I'll wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u26	Okay. I told you, this is step one. This is followed by the further development of the Building Decision 2012. It will contain a ban. Work on gas combustion plants may only be carried out by skilled mechanics working at plants certified to carry out this work. A method prescribed in so-called certification schemes should be used. Because the greatest risks exist in gas combustion plants, the system focuses specifically on these plants: boilers, geysers, gas heaters. The development of the Building Decision will, as I have already mentioned, be put before your Chamber. I believe that Mr Ronnes asked for this. At that time, this could lead to a substantive exchange of views with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u27	My first question is: if it is in the Building Decision, when do you think it will be effective? What period are we talking about? When do we really have to stick to it in practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u28	My aim is for the system to enter into force in stages on 1 January 2020, i.e. 1 January. However, due to the conversion required for the creation of the certificates........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u29	Then we have the moment of 1 January 2021, when I think the Building Decision 2012 will be replaced by the Bbl in the Environment Act. How is this transition going to take place in this process? Wouldn't it be wiser to do it right away in the b.B.? Maybe you'll lose six months, but you'll only have to do that job once. I'm just trying to figure out what it means in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u30	It is certainly not my intention that this change of system should be hindered by another change of system. So I really want to stick to the phased entry into force from 1 January 2020, leading to the entry into force of the actual prohibition one and a half years later. I will have it checked as to whether what Mr Ronnes is saying could affect that, but that is not my intention. My intention is simply to implement it step by step, but in accordance with this schedule. This phase-out is necessary and the year and a half is necessary, because all these steps must be taken, but it must not be delayed by any other developments. So we have to take good care of that. As I said, the first step concerns certification schemes by market players. Those preparations are already underway; that is what I have already said. Then I can identify the certification schemes and the certification bodies that are going to carry out the schematics. This is all part of the general measure of governance. The third step concerns the application by the installation companies of a certificate from the certification bodies, so that they can actually carry out that work. So it's staged. Mr. Chairman. I shall come back to Mr Ronnes' point. It is important that Building Decision be amended now or as soon as possible, also in anticipation of any other changes, because that helps in the process to keep pace. Mr. Chairman. A lot of questions have been asked. It's also a complex subject. After these introductory words I will try to answer all questions a little clustered, as far as I have not already answered in the list. I will start with Mr Smeulders, because he referred back to the entire report of the OVV. It was not just this recommendation; there were indeed six recommendations. My predecessor on this dossier, the Minister for Housing and Rijksdienst, has sent me a detailed response to it in June 2016. I should like to take a short look at them, because Mr Smeulders specifically asked for them. Recommendation 1 is the statutory qualification system. That's what we're talking about today. Recommendation 2 deals with legal requirements in the framework of failsafe and failproof. Soon I will go into that further, because Mrs Van Eijs and others also asked questions about it, but that is what needs to be done at European level. That is something that is still going on and that needs to be further developed technically. I would like to speak even more in detail about this European. The third recommendation is that the test results of carbon monoxide detectors should be made public. That's what happened on the NVWA website. The fourth recommendation sets out legal requirements for reliable and effective carbon monoxide detectors. This also lies with the NVWA, under the responsibility of my colleague from VWS and the Minister for Medical Care. The NVWA supervises and does so with new standards. This recommendation has therefore been taken up in this way. Recommendation 5 concerns the provision of information on risks. Same thing. I also refer to the NVWA website. Recommendation 6 states that the problem should be monitored. That is, of course, quite right. That must indeed be done. Then I'm at the scope of the whole thing. Questions have been asked about this. Mr Smeulders wondered whether this should not be widened somewhat. I said in my introduction that it focuses precisely on the carbon monoxide risk. This is a specific danger which the Security Research Council has also looked at. That is what we want to do now. A further broadening complicates the system. This could also lead to additional costs for consumers and businesses. It is actually an approach that is rather targeted, all focused on the problem of carbon monoxide, and therefore not a broader approach. That is what has been chosen, actually since the publication of the report of the OVV. Mr Kops asks for it, but there will not be one certificate instead of all existing labels. However, the sector is consulted on, for example, the design of the figurative mark. We are indeed familiar with the image brand OK CV. We'll take that into account, too. This also plays a role in the consultations. Then there is the European dimension. Mr Smeulders and Mrs Van Eijs asked about it. There is also something about it in the explanatory memorandum. Mrs Van Eijs asked if we could speed up coordination in Europe. I am speaking on behalf of the cabinet, but in this case it is a task of my colleague from VWS. In the distribution, VWS is responsible for the safety of the gas appliances. We're talking about incineration plants here. That's a little bit more than just a device, but for the devices, VWS does. VWS is also active in Brussels. There will be participation in technical working groups on the safety of appliances. We are represented, like the other Member States, but we are also talking to industry organisations, inspection bodies, standardisation organisations and consumers. The previous cabinet has agreed with the Chamber that in these consultations the Netherlands raises the issue of the use of fail-safe installations. We are, of course, doing the same thing. However, it is a fact that in other European countries this issue is somewhat less visible than in our own. That's why it doesn't go on its own. So we have to go through with it. VWS is currently considering whether it would be appropriate to have a concrete proposal developed for that fail-safe facility. This is also done in consultation with the industry. Moreover, it is a Brussels consultation under the so-called European Gas Equipment Regulation. In this section, Mrs Van Eijs also asked how we could use the OVV's recommendation in the European discussions. She said that network operators were designated abroad, but that we are doing this differently here. She asked if we could learn from others in that respect, a bit the opposite of what I have just argued. Following the finding by the OVV that more regulation is needed in other countries, my predecessor commissioned a study. This was done by the research firm OTB of Delft University of Technology. The investigation was sent along with the cabinet response from 2016. The conclusion was that the countries surrounding us are significantly more regulated, but that effectiveness cannot be demonstrated. So the study couldn't confirm that much regulation has an effect. Following this decision, it was decided that in the Netherlands the implementation of the OVV's recommendation by a legally binding uniform system of approval for installers would be sufficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u31	I would like to come back to the possibility of fail-safe installations, which are really safe installations. It is good to hear that the Netherlands is committed to this. I can imagine that in other countries the central heating boiler is less common, but we also hear about movements in other countries where a lot of gas is switched to gas. I therefore hope that it will be a little higher on the agenda of those other countries. I had also asked: how can we until then ensure that at least in the Netherlands we are going to sell and use such installations more? The fact that there is no European coordination may not mean that we should leave it at all in the Netherlands. Maybe there are people who want to choose to do so consciously.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u32	There's a lot of technique behind this, I think Mrs Van Eijs knows that much better than I do. It requires that in the application of those fail-safe gas combustion devices that device is incorporated into the new installations. This requires, among other things, reliable sensors, which ensure that the gas combustion plants turn off when carbon monoxide is measured. This is a technique on which there is still a great deal of consultation in the sector and which is being looked at. It seems that they are available and then it would be good to make sure that the industry always installs these sensors, because that is, of course, an extra safety that you could build in. I do recognize the point made by Mrs Van Eijs. While we are in the process of phasing out our own natural gas extraction in the new building, gas will generally no longer be used here, while some other countries will switch more to gas, because they are still using much more polluting sources. This is likely to lead to an increase in this type of gas combustion plant in those other countries as well. That could indeed give the debate in Europe a little more urgency.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u33	Will the Minister perhaps see an opportunity to establish a standard once the technical discussion has been settled? I do not want to argue for another label, but could we perhaps, in consultation with the industry, ensure that consumers can opt for a boiler with such extra security? Can we, as a government, not somehow encourage this type of boiler to become more commonplace?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u34	I would certainly like to assure Mrs Van Eijs that I, together with Mr Bruins of VWS, will engage in this consultation with the industry, to see how we can ensure that they make the most of this extra security and make it clear to consumers as well. Then I come to a number of questions concerning supervision, sanctions and enforcement. Mr Smeulders was the first speaker, but others also asked questions. How is enforcement actually regulated in the system? Let me deal with that first. The system provides for a ban on both companies, i.e. installers, consumers and any other clients. For companies, it is prohibited to carry out activities if they do not have the valid certificate. Consumers and clients are prohibited from awarding contracts to non-certified companies. They can search a public register for certified companies. We also need to make that accessible. In doing so, the system provides for different ways of acting against non-certified companies. The Authority Consumer and Market oversees unfair commercial practices. It also includes the use of a certificate without permission. The ACM may impose fines. Criminal sanctions may be imposed on the basis of the Law on Economic Crimes. The State may take action against unlawful use of the figurative mark to be established under the system. The municipality may take enforcement action for breach of the prohibition. The municipality has the possibility of imposing a burden under administrative control, a penalty payment or an administrative fine. So that's how the system works. Mrs Van Eijs also asked how these municipalities get enough expertise for this. Monitoring compliance and enforcement of the Building Decision lies with the municipality; this is already the case. The municipality of course has the space to complete the supervision and the intensity of the supervision at its own discretion. In this system, I actually see municipal supervision as complementary to the various possibilities that exist and which I have just outlined to act against non-certified companies. A municipality can act on the basis of signals it receives, for example from residents, consumers. Or she gets signals from installers, certified installers who run into things. They can also report that to the municipality. Then the municipality can act accordingly, for example by entering the house. The municipality must therefore really enable itself to intervene as much as possible if there are unsafe situations, and then indeed impose the penalty payment or the fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u35	If a municipality finds that maintenance has been carried out by a non-certified company, it is quite simple: that is not allowed. I get that. My group has asked: why do municipalities still have to look behind the door? Why do they really need to see those kettles? In principle there is no sticker on that: this boiler has been looked at by a certified company. The Minister said in reply, in my own words, that the municipality is looking to see if the boiler is safe. If a municipality is really going to see if a boiler is safe and if the maintenance has been done safely, there will in fact be an extra "judge" of heating installations that will look at the installation. Therefore, the following practical questions. Do municipalities employ such a person? Or should they hire him? And if they hire him, does he come back from the same heating company? Where does someone like that come from?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u36	No, the municipality is and will remain responsible for compliance and enforcement of the Building Decision. So is the city now. This becomes part of the Building Decision, so the municipality must also monitor this in the same way. As I was saying, a municipality has to perform where things aren't going well. Municipalities must therefore be able to act on the basis of signals coming in so that they can actually impose the instruments they have, such as fines and periodic penalty payments. Municipalities of course do not take the place of the installers. That is not a task of municipalities. It was about the enforcement powers of the municipalities, and whether municipalities are able to maintain and shape that task. I assume that most municipalities will involve these new opportunities in what they are already doing for compliance and enforcement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u37	I'm trying to understand, but I don't think this was entirely an answer to my question. A possibility is created that a municipality itself will look at a boiler, so behind the front door of people. My group believes that this should be allowed in principle if such a thing is unsafe, but you should be careful with that kind of consent in relation to privacy. The city can't just come in everywhere. So D66 asked: why does the municipality have to look at the kettle itself? The boiler itself may not be able to tell if there was a certified company at work. In the reply the Minister indicated: yes, it must, because then the municipality will see if the boiler is safe. Then there must be someone in the municipality who can judge that. My question is: is this expertise present in municipalities? I do not feel that I have had an answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u38	Apologies, I may not have said it clearly enough, but I am one abstraction level higher than Mrs Van Eijs. Mrs Van Eijs is already sitting right behind the front door of the inhabitants of a municipality. I said that a municipality must be able to maintain. That is a task of the municipality, even now. We have, of course, also aligned this with the VNG. It is important that we know that municipalities have that task. Municipalities can do that, and also have the space to fill it out themselves. They can determine the intensity of enforcement, and they can decide how they want to monitor it. I just said: it seems logical to me that the municipality should rely on complaints or enforcement requests from, for example, consumers or certified companies who find that it is not in order in a particular neighborhood or a particular home. Then the city must take action. The municipality should not violate privacy, but end unsafe situations. How exactly do they decorate that? They have people for that who are now also working on matters that are covered by the Building Decision. They are now given an additional legal opportunity, and they will do so in a good way, so that the unsafe situations that still exist are put to an end.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u39	I thank the Minister for her reply. My question is as follows. The Ministry is going to issue those certificates and certification schemes. What role does the Minister for the Ministry see in the supervision?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u40	In the practice of supervision it is mainly the municipalities that are in position and in view. If Mr Koerhuis asks whether the Ministry is still involved in any way, the answer is no. If we set up the system properly, then of course we don't have to. But what the Ministry has to monitor is that we will come up with the whole phase-out, roll-out and evaluation as well as whether it works properly in practice. Again, of course, we have a very clear objective with this legislative amendment, which is to reduce the number of carbon monoxide poisoning victims. We need to monitor that, so we need to keep the finger on the wrist. Therefore, we need to know how enforcement is going in rural areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u41	The Ministry shall issue the certificates and the certification schemes. Does the Ministry intend to check for themselves whether these certificates and certification schemes are good or does the Ministry rely on the municipalities and on the feedback it is going to get from those municipalities?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u42	It is quite a fine system that we are now introducing together, with certification bodies, with companies that need these certificates and with enforcement and supervision. All those links in the chain have to do their job. In the end, we need to be able to see if it works with each other, and that will, of course, have to make the ministry understandable. I certainly see a role for the Ministry, but in the chain itself the installers, the municipalities and those who supervise the certificate have to do it in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u43	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u44	I understand that's how it works in the chain itself, but doesn't the Ministry itself go out the door to see how these certificates and certification schemes are going in practice? Or is that what's happening? Does an official of the Ministry perhaps occasionally come along or is he always going to test whether the certificates and certification schemes given are good?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u45	I understand Mr Koerhuis' suggestion. It is not at all my way of working or our way of working just to stay in the tower on the Turfmarkt. Of course, you also have to get your light up in practice every now and then. But the system must be so well structured that we do not depend on it, because in all honesty: that would not, of course, work. I don't have to mention the numbers, but we have 355 municipalities. The number alone indicates that this is of course inoperable. We have a lot of gas combustion plants in the Netherlands. It is by far the most important source to heat households in the Netherlands, so of course that would not be possible. But as I just said, it is an entire chain, in which all the links and all those responsible in those links have a clear task. I will come back to the evaluation later, but I believe that as a minister and therefore also the civil servants of BZK, I should have a clear view of the functioning of the whole.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u46	I ask the Minister, in view of the clock, to continue her speech and make some meters.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u47	Mr President, I am going to do my best. Briefly, I would like to thank Mr Smeulders for his congratulations, and I would also like to thank GroenLinks, in particular the group in the First Chamber, which is actually dealing with very different matters. The Quality Assurance for Building Act is about the quality assurance officer who checks that a building complies with the quality requirements of the Building Decision. But this is really very specific about gas combustion plants. So there is a link, for example, because quality assurance allows us to verify that the installation is installed by a certified installer. When the Quality Assurance for Building Act comes into force, the link is there, because it is all attached to the Building Decision, but the Quality Assurance for Building Act is a much larger whole. We've had the sanctions, Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna try to make some meters because you called me up to do that. I'm gonna keep going to the cost. There is a pallet of questions about the costs for both the consumer and the companies involved. Small businesses and zzp'ers I believe that Mrs Van Eijs asked for this, of course, there are many in this sector. I think it is important that this legislative amendment is feasible, not only for large companies but also for small businesses andzzp'ers. That is why the certification schemes will soon take this into account. It must be proportionate and doable, including for the small businesses and thezzp'ers, to obtain that certificate. It is, of course, also about the costs, which I believe Mr Ronnes asked for. Or was it Mr. Kops and Mr. Ronnes? I'd like to get rid of that. In any case, it was asked whether the smaller companies would not be pushed away by their introduction. Safety's a real priority. We agree with the OVV that it is necessary to introduce certification to ensure safety and to make the installers sufficiently professional in this respect. I have just said that we must make the system manageable, including for small businesses and individual installers. There must be a good balance in this. The certificate costs money, that's a fact. We need to make sure that new installers are just in their training. Soon it'll be the new normal, but it'll be a focus. We have, of course, looked at how to keep those costs manageable. There's a report from Sira Consulting. It states that the structural cost of certification is about €14 to €16 per maintenance. That is a clear amount for consumers, because if you have such a maintenance once every two years, you're talking about about about €7.50 per year. That is what the consumer pays, but he is also sure that he is dealing with a certified company. This is the expectation and we must, of course, keep an eye on actual cost developments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u48	I think that the Minister would like to point out that these are the direct costs that are incurred by the public through the installation companies. But there are also indirect costs. We have just talked about enforcement, for example. That just means that municipalities need to put extra energy and capacity into this. This also costs money, and that will also end up on the citizens' plate by other means. My approach would be to look at it in the broad picture. I do wonder whether the UNG has responded positively to this. Then I am talking about the element of additional enforcement activities by the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u49	I just told you, there's been a consultation with the VNG. The UNG, like you and I, considers it very important that security is paramount and, of course, it is also important that it is practicable in practice and enforceable for municipalities. Of course, the cost aspect is also involved. Of course, we must try to keep costs as low as possible. This applies to consumers, and that applies to businesses, which also have to keep their heads above water. There is certainly a form of cost increase due to additional work by the municipalities. But all the parties that have been involved see good opportunities to keep it limited. It's something to keep an eye on. Mr. Chairman. Mr Koerhuis asked about the SME test. The system has, of course, been in operation for some time now. We'll be working on that for a while. As I said, we also pay attention to the costs and the burden on the installation industry itself. I referred to the report prepared for this purpose. The sector is also looking at how costs can be contained and how we can reduce the burden. I see this as a material form of application of the SME test. The SME test has actually just entered into. Strictly speaking, the answer to the question "Did you take the SME test?" So no, but in the way and practice of developing the system there has been a great deal of attention for small businesses, especially SMEs. This has therefore played a major role in the introduction of this new system. Mr. Chairman. Several parties have called for attention to be paid to information and public campaigns. If this new system enters into force, we will indeed combine it with a campaign. Of course, attention has been paid to the dangers of carbon monoxide by firefighters and the industry itself, but the introduction of the new system is a good time to give new information about this, including to citizens, particularly because we would like to point out to them that there is a central register in which they can find those certified plant companies. Special attention will be paid to this. In fact, it is still about increasing knowledge about the dangers of carbon monoxide poisoning. There is a national public campaign Stop CO poisoning of the fire department and the Dutch Brand Wounds Foundation, which is repeated annually. I believe that it is still necessary to continue these campaigns, but, as I said, we will also launch a new campaign when the new system is introduced. We will then, of course, consult with the fire department and the Dutch Brand Wounds Foundation to make use of the lessons they have learned from the campaigns so far, also in the new campaign. Maybe one more point about communication. Mr Smeulders said that the phased entry into force might not be crystal clear to the people involved. That's what I heard back in other people's contributions. I think that is particularly true of the sector itself. There is very intensive consultation, for example with Techniek Nederland. The fact that it's happening in stages makes it a little more complicated. At the same time, this phase-up is very important for the sector, because it really takes time to ensure that the certificates are good, that we have implemented them properly and that we are also able to obtain them. But we will inform and involve them very intensively. Many questions have been asked and comments have been made on the evaluation and monitoring. Mr Koerhuis asked about the monitoring of the whole system. As I just said, it's important to monitor the entire system. The system also provides for spot checks by means of monitoring. We are also in agreement with the sector on what is the best way to shape the monitoring of impacts. If the first phase of the legislative proposal starts on 1 January 2020, we should be able to give an interim picture three years later. That's the thought. So this is a little faster than it was only after five years, as the evaluation was now foreseen. However, the law must have really entered into force. You have to take into account that phase of one and a half years, the actual entry into force of this law and then three years later we could give an interim picture to your Chamber. That is a little faster than originally foreseen, but I think it would be wise to do so. Mr. Chairman. I have a number of questions that I would like to ask under the heading of other questions. Mr Kops asked whether the system would be used to phase out gas combustion plants in the context of the climate transition. At least that is my last comment. Mr Kops knows that this change in the system is entirely about safety, namely the safety of gas combustion plants. There's no other agenda under there. The expansion for flue gases. That was, I think, a question from Mr Koerhuis. I will include that notification obligation in the Building Decree. The Research Council also referred to this. In fact, according to the Research Council, there are always two events when carbon monoxide is released: the production of carbon monoxide and the release of carbon monoxide into space. It is technically complicated, of course, but if only exhaust gases are released without too much carbon monoxide being produced, this does not necessarily lead to a dangerous situation. But it is indeed important to report that. Does the difference between skilled and inexpensive installers lead to exclusion of lower-skilled installers? That was another question from Mr Kops. We've just said a few things about it. I think the most important thing is that all installers are able to obtain that certificate. If that is not the case, then, with all due respect, this cannot be done. That is the degree of professionalism that can be expected of everyone. However, we are going to make it as easy as possible for the installers to do the same. The demands are really about skill. Moreover, the development of these skills requirements is still the subject of consultation. We're talking about the law change here. As I said earlier, all these things will come back to us in the construction decision. You'll be able to judge all that. Finally, I believe that Mr Koerhuis had another question about dangerous boilers, which have also been reported in the media. With Mr Koerhuis, of course, I found that a worrying message. In the Netherlands, of course, we want people to be able to rely on the safety of the CV boilers that are on the market. That is why we, Mr Bruins, have also been instructed here by the Minister responsible, Mr Bruins, the Dutch Food and Veterinary Authority, to investigate this. In addition to Mr Koerhuis, Mrs Beckerman of the SP is not here today to ask questions about this. So that investigation is being carried out. The outcome is not yet available, but as soon as it is available, Mr Bruins will inform the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. I've made a bit of a pace on your call. I hope I have answered all the questions. I came to the end of my first term with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u50	Thank you, Minister. Then we can proceed to the second term of office. Oh, there's one more question. Mr. Ronnes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u51	I have just been talking about the number of mechanics that actually have to meet that qualification. You indicate that a lot of installers already meet that level. But what exactly is the task? How many mechanics have to be trained in the meantime? Is that a small part of the 34,000 or does it just mean that all 34,000 installers really need to obtain that certificate?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u52	All operators must have that certificate at the end of the journey, when that system has fully entered into force. So that goes for everyone. You assume that the vast majority of them are skilled and will therefore be able to obtain the certificate easily, but everyone must have that certificate. If you don't have that on the final entry date, you're no longer admissible. The question of how much effort remains to be made and how much training is still needed for this of the total number of installers we have, I do not have ready here. I'm very willing to see if we have that information at the Ministry. If so, I would be able to give further insight into this in the second period.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u53	If there are no further questions, we can now move on to the second term of office. Each group has two minutes' speaking time, including the tabling of motions. I will not allow any interruptions, but I will ask you some enlightening questions about the motions. Mr. Smeulders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for replying. In my opinion, we are simply largely in agreement as a Chamber in this area, but then there is Mr Koerhuis who first, as we know him, states that 'a safe house is important for everyone', and then again, using all kinds of examples, says that it should not be too difficult for people as installers. In my view, security is at the forefront of all of us and the Minister is very strongly in favour of it. For GroenLinks, sustainability is also extremely important. We see real opportunities to combine the measures that are now being proposed with the aim of reducing the use of natural gas. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the removal of natural gas from the whole built environment is an important part of the achievement of the climate objectives resulting from the Paris Climate Agreement in the foreseeable future;]] [[Whereas the removal of natural gas from the whole built environment is expected to lead to a significant increase in demand for installers who can also provide advice on all alternatives to a natural gas-fired heating installation;]] [[Whereas the manifesto of 28 March of natural and environmental organisations, the installation industry and other civil society organisations has launched a civil society movement to prohibit the sale of new fully gas-fired central heating installations from 2021 for sustainability reasons and the government supports the ambitions of these parties;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure in the preparation of the general administrative measure accompanying this legislative proposal that gas installers, as part of the statutory certification, also acquire the knowledge and skills that enable them to also advise on alternatives to a natural gas-fired heating plant,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Smeulders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35022-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u55	Yeah, my name fell. It fell into a bit of an annoying contradiction, because they are installers who ultimately have to ensure the safety of the résumé installations. Therefore, it is important that those installers do not get too many rules and not too much cost for the choices. That is quite different from the opposition that GroenLinks is now presenting and which in fact places installers with extra rules and extra costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u56	I'm sorry to interrupt, but is this argument going to lead to a question or a motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u57	Yeah, this is gonna lead to a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u58	Just about the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u59	On the motion, indeed. My name fell too, but this is going to lead to a question. GroenLinks actually comes up with additional training requirements that have nothing to do with the safety of these boilers. Is GroenLinks prepared to separate this from the demands that the Minister is going to make on the safety of the boilers? Especially from GroenLinks, I understand where they come from, but safety is the key here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u60	I am very pleased that Mr Koerhuis understands where GroenLinks and our ideals come from. Perhaps we can have a separate debate on this once in a while. We very much want to do work with work. That's right, safety is the key. We agree on that. But we also have a huge task to make sure that by 2050 natural gas is no longer the way we heat houses. If we now go to schools for all mechanics and installers in the safe use of central heating boilers, it is only logical in our view to inform them immediately about alternatives, because they will be the order of the day for the next 30 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u61	Thank you. We shall now have Mr Ronnes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u62	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, a good discussion. I note that we are very much in favour of increasing the protection of citizens by at least ensuring that the technical installation of these central heating systems is good and meets sufficient quality limits. I still have the question of how this whole process is going to work on the date of 1 January 2021 of the Environment Act when the Building Decree is no longer active but the Bbl. I have been interrupted in the first period and I would like to hear from the Minister in the second period exactly how this is going to happen and how this is going to emerge in the phasing-out. Secondly, together with the VVD, we have tabled a motion on the SME test. The VVD will be filing this motion shortly. In its response at first reading, the Minister indicated that it could not be that small businesses and small businesses would suffer. I believe that Mr Kops also indicated this in his first term. A third point is the evaluation. We think it is very important to look at effectiveness, how it works. What about enforcement? Is that doable? Is it happening enough? But the cost aspect must also be taken into account. This needs to be taken into account in that evaluation period. For this we have also jointly prepared an amendment with the VVD, which looks forward to an evaluation after three years. Then the final point. In my first term, I asked the Minister about the role-consciousness of all those parties. How can we ensure that the role remains stable? I would nevertheless like to inform the Minister that, in the agreements she makes with all the governments, including the municipalities, she must draw attention to what this means. Because if the plans we are making here do not have their effect in practice, we are not getting much progress. It is therefore very important that all players are well aware of what needs to be done to bring the quality one step higher. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u63	Thank you, Mr. Ronnes. Mrs. Van Eijs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, thank you to the Minister for answering the questions. It is good to note that we all want to work together on safer resume boilers and less carbon monoxide poisoning. I also welcome the Minister's commitment to look at fail-safe boilers. One point of attention that I still have is the prevention of multiple labels. I hope that the consultation with the sector will show that we will soon have a clearly identifiable label for consumers, because that remains very important. It is also important that it is not a paper reality. I would therefore like to be assured by the Minister that after a notification, a penalty payment and all administrative means available to a municipality, the municipality can also simply see whether a boiler is safe. Then she can end that unsafe situation not only on paper but also in real life. As has already been mentioned several times, this also stands or falls with residents or owners who know what to do. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a survey carried out by the Dutch Brand Wounds Foundation shows that a large proportion of the residents do not recognise the risk of carbon monoxide poisoning sufficiently;]] [[noting that it is also apparent that one in three residents do not know how to act in the case of carbon monoxide poisoning;]] [[Considering that a campaign was launched by the Cabinet in 2017 to increase the level of knowledge of residents about carbon monoxide poisoning;]] [[Whereas the level of knowledge of residents plays an important role in reducing the number of carbon monoxide accidents;]] [[calls on the Government, in cooperation with the Dutch Brand Wounds Foundation and other interested parties, to come up with a plan to increase the level of knowledge of residents about carbon monoxide poisoning and to inform the Court of Justice of this before the entry into force of the law,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Eijs. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35022-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u65	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks also to the Minister for replying. I still have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that "the certification system for work on gas combustion plants" will never be misused to prevent, in the context of the energy transition, the installation and maintenance of gas-fired boilers, with the aim of decoupling the whole country from the gas,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Kops. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35022-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u66	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u67	Thank you, Mr. Kops. Finally, Mr. Koerhuis.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As Mr Ronnes of the CDA said, we have a joint motion on the SME test. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Minister is to introduce a new system of certification for work on gas combustion plants;]] [[noting that the Minister has not yet carried out the SME test;]] [[Whereas the new system should not result in high regulatory pressure and high costs;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out the SME test before the introduction of the new system and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Koerhuis and Mr Ronnes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35022-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u69	I would like to thank the Minister for his reply on the dangerous CV boilers. To give a little more direction, I will table the next motion together with Mrs Beckerman of the SP. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a safe house is important for both homeowners and tenants;]] [[Whereas research carried out by Kassa has shown that there are 150,000 life-threatening boilers in use;]] [[Whereas the NVWA has initiated an investigation into these boilers;]] [[calls on the Government to keep up with this investigation, send it to the Chamber before the summer and to take appropriate measures in response to the results, such as recall of boilers;]] [[calls on the Government to also open a 0800 number for delivered homeowners and tenants,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Koerhuis and Mr Beckerman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35022-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had also prepared a motion together, Mrs Beckerman, to extend the notification requirement for carbon monoxide near-accidents to exhaust gases. Now I hear that the Minister is going to do that enlargement. I should like to hear from the Minister in his second term that this is a real commitment. During the first period, I asked whether the Minister could make an explicit commitment to the amendment tabled by Mr Ronnes and myself that she would include two points in the evaluation we have requested. The first is the improvement of the safety of CV installations and the second is the effect on regulatory pressure and costs for both businesses and households. I would just like to hear the firm commitment that this is being taken on board.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u71	Yes. You have already exceeded your speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u72	That's right. I have two more points.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u73	No, I'm not gonna let you do that. That's what I got with the others...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u74	But this is legal treatment!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u75	Yes. Well, the clerk is clement, so I will be. Finish it quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u76	Yes. Thank you. The first of these two points: I would like to ask the Minister for a letter on the timetable and the interaction between the Building Decree and the Environment Act. I thought that was a little unclear just now. I'm also looking at Mr. Ronnes; he nods along. I make the same request for the interaction between the ministry and municipalities. That would be very enlightening. Finally. Well, given the time, I'm gonna stick with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u77	Thank you, Mr. Koerhuis. Then I'll suspend the meeting for five minutes. Then we're gonna listen to the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u78	I would ask you all to take your seats again, because the Minister is now going to respond to your questions and to the motions in the second term. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u79	Certainly, Mr President, but that requires me to put my papers in the right order, because I want to do so in the order of the speakers. Mr Smeulders was indeed the first speaker. Yeah, I'm back. Mr Smeulders has tabled a motion, the motion in part No. 9. Let me begin by saying that, of course, I find the objective he is pursuing to be very sympathetic. It is indeed important for consumers to be able to get good information at the right moments about alternatives, for example in the event of a move, the purchase of a new home or whatever. In practice, we must also ensure that this happens more and more. Maybe I can give you one example. I was at the WoonWijzerWinkel in Rotterdam a few weeks ago. I can recommend that everyone take a look there, because that is exactly where you, as a consumer, can get very good information about the possibilities that exist, including at this point. So that's very important. However, for two reasons, I will not recommend this motion. First of all, I would like to mention the following for the factuality. The last recital refers to the manifesto of banning fully gas-fired central heating systems. The final sentence states that the government supports the ambitions of these parties. But in fact, the government has not yet said that it supports the ban in this way, as the motion argues. But we are, of course, working hard and very actively, both within the framework of the climate agreement and the phase-out of gas extraction, with other forms of heating and installations. That's the fact. The second is that I really think it is very important that we continue to speed up this bill and focus on safety. This simply requires the rapid introduction of the system, which is therefore totally focused on the carbon monoxide problem, on the safety of gas combustion plants. I fear that the broadening of what is covered by this compulsory certification requested by Mr Smeulders will result in additional work, additional time and additional costs. I think the goal is important. I agree with that, but I would not want to achieve that through this legislative amendment. That's why I have to discourage the motion. Mr. Chairman. That was a bit of a long response to a motion. Then I'll come to Mr. Ronnes. I owe him an answer from the first term. He asked how many people actually need to be retrained or extra trained by the new system. The information I have is that there are about 3,500 plant companies operating in the sector. There are manyzzp'ers active in this sector, because of these 3,500 companies there are 2,500zzp'ers. But it's a lot more mechanics. Techniek Nederland has indicated that about 15,000 mechanics are involved, but there is still consultation with the sector, because there is also a distinction. Some installers, for example, do work on the installation, but do not check on the commissioning. On balance, we need to look very closely at which companies, but above all also which installers are affected by this. That's actually the wrong expression. It is about installers who really have to learn something, and have to go to training or something like that. But there is good consultation on this, I can say to Mr Ronnes. Then there is the Bbl, which Mr Ronnes also asked for in the first term. First the law, and then the general measure of governance because of the Building Decree. Afterwards, that Building Decree becomes part of the Bbl. But that's a technical conversion. In other words, we shouldn't wait for it. We just need to make this law change. Then it will not lead to delays in transposition. So we can just be ready with all this in time. I will come to Mr Koerhuis' motion on the SME test. Mr Ronnes just referred to the amendment on evaluation. Quite rightly, because perhaps I should have said this in the first period when I indicated the timetable within which we can carry out this evaluation. There is therefore a legislative amendment as of 1 January 2020. The phaser's going in. The system shall enter into force on 1 July 2021. My suggestion was that three years after the first step, three years after 1 January 2020 or 1 January 2023, should be able to present an intermediate picture and then carry out the legal assessment as of 1 January 2025. That's another three and a half years after 1 July 2021. I think that is the idea behind the amendment. But you could also read the amendment in such a way that it says that there would be a legal evaluation by 2023. I think that's too soon. I really don't think that's possible. But what is possible is to create that intermediate image on the way to the legal evaluation as of 1 January 2025. I hope that the authors of the amendment could put it that way. Then I could be very good with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u80	The groups of the VVD and the CDA are very concerned about additional regulatory pressure and additional costs. So we'd really like to have the real legal evaluation after three years. We would also like to hear the Minister's undertaking that she will look into this additional regulatory burden and the additional costs, that she will check whether they have not become too high.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u81	In fact, Mr Koerhuis and Mr Ronnes, everyone here in this House can have my word that I would very much like to look at the costs, the regulatory burden and the practice, that is, the question of whether it works. That is why I also say that intermediate image, rather than anticipated in the first instance. But if you ask me to really have the legal evaluation done on 1 January 2023, I say that it is actually so soon after the total entry into force of the system, that I am afraid that it is simply too early. I can't agree to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u82	Then I'm afraid we're in a different place. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u83	I agree with the Minister. But if Mr Koerhuis explains the amendment in this way, then that means that the Minister is dissuading the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u84	In fact, I hope that I will be able to appeal to the proposers to take a really good look at that. We really agree on the urgency. We also agree that safety is paramount, but that it must also be workable at the same time and that we really need to keep our finger on the pulse there. I agree to do that, too. I also agree to inform the Chamber about that image earlier than I originally anticipated. The only thing I seem to disagree with the proposers on is the timing of the legal evaluation. I ask the proposers to think again. A legal evaluation before 1 January 2023, because that is how I read the amendment after Mr Koerhuis' explanatory statement, is really very fast. That is very soon after the actual entry into force, after we have had all the stages. After all, that is 1 July of the year before. Well, I really appeal to the proposers to think again about whether they could go along with me in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u85	Mr. Koerhuis, can you come with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u86	The groups of the VVD and the CDA always want to think about it, but there is little chance that we want something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u87	We're gonna see it at the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u88	Let me get this straight. I think the Minister's speech is very logical. But if the amendment stays the way it is now, then does the Minister advise against it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u89	I have just said that I really have substantive arguments and that I also agree with the purpose of the amendment in substance. That's what I'm gonna do. I made that commitment. I hope that will lead to a very small modification of the amendment. I very much hope that we can agree. I think, strictly speaking, that Mr Smeulders is right: as is literally stated in the amendment, I simply cannot say that I can deliver it. I don't think that's wise. But once again, I know Mr Ronnes and Mr Koerhuis as very reasonable and substantive MPs, so I am waiting for it. Let me see if I have answered Mr Ronnes' questions. I thought so. Then I am with Mrs Van Eijs, who had a motion and a few more comments. Consultation with the sector on labelling is important. I've just said a few things about that. It must be clear to both users and consumers. That's what we're looking for. Not one for everything, that won't be possible, but it has to be clear. Her other point, that she also made a few times in the first period, is the question whether the municipalities are really able to see for themselves that these boilers are unsafe. Yes, based on the reports received, they are ultimately, if they have to, able to see for themselves. By the way, they are now. Then Mrs Van Eijs had another motion, which was in part no. 10. This motion concerns the campaign, and in particular the level of knowledge, on carbon monoxide and carbon monoxide. I think that is a sympathetic motion. I have already said a few things about this in my first term. I'd like to leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. Then I'll be with Mr. Kops. In reply to his first-term question, I had already said that this whole legislative amendment and its further impact really sees the safety and risks of gas combustion plants. He has tabled a motion which comes back to that same point and establishes a link with reducing and eventually stopping the gas extraction in Groningen. I think there is really an unjustified suggestion being made here. Since I simply do not agree with that, I have no choice but to vote in favour of the motion. 11 dissuade. Mr. Chairman. Finally, a number of motions and questions from Mr Koerhuis. Let me begin with the questions and comments. First of all, I may have to clarify a misunderstanding. Mr Koerhuis referred to a notification obligation in the first place. He also mentioned the flue gases. I would very much like to clarify my answer. There will be a notification requirement for carbon monoxide. It is included in the Building Decision; this has also been advised by the Security Research Council. There's gonna be one. Then I said how the Research Council looked at that. It is always, as I said just now in my first term, two events: the production of carbon monoxide and the release of carbon monoxide into space. A combination of these two factors presents the risk. The mere release of flue gases without too much carbon monoxide produced by these plants does not lead to a dangerous situation. That makes sense, too. For example, in the classic kitchen geysers, we know them all. Therefore, only reporting the release of flue gases does not seem to be very reasonable. The point is that flue gas is released into a room with a lot of carbon monoxide. This is a dangerous situation and the obligation to report is directed towards that dangerous situation. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the motions. Also in the case of the motion in part No. 12 on the SME test, I would again like to appeal to the proposers. I can imagine that what I said in the first place about the way we have dealt with these small businesses in the system so far, I would say again in a letter to the Chamber. On the basis of that letter, the applicants will be better able to assess whether they agree with what I have just argued, namely that it is actually as good a de facto as doing the SME test today. I would imagine that the motion would then be held until those who made the assessment could have done so, because the introduction of the new system could lead to delays in that SME test, and I do not think that is what the proposers are aiming to do. So my offer is to send a letter about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u90	I'll see if the petitioners are willing to hold the motion. Mr. Koerhuis?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u91	Is the Minister's letter coming for the vote? Well, that's actually my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u92	Yeah, I'm gonna send a letter about that real quick.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u93	Then let's wait it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u94	Okay, thank you. The second motion by Mr Koerhuis, together with Mrs Beckerman...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u95	Before you go any further, there's another question from Mr. Smeulders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u96	In the case of motions, it is the same as in the case of amendments, isn't it? It is customary for the Minister now to give an opinion on the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u97	Not if it gets pulled over, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u98	But she wasn't apprehended.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u99	No, she hasn't been apprehended. Mr. Koerhuis says he's waiting for the letter. If that letter is not acceptable, the motion will simply be put to the vote. Is the motion still being held, or does the Minister advise the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u100	Hold until the letter, and if the letter isn't right, we'll put the motion to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u101	At the request of Mr Koerhuis, I propose his motion (35022, No. 12), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 40/94 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u102	Well, then she wasn't apprehended. Otherwise, the Minister must now give an opinion. How else am I supposed to know Tuesday...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u103	Mr. Koerhuis has now made it clear that he is holding the motion. That means that I conclude that the Minister says: I'm dissuading the motion. No?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u104	No. The petitioners have just said they want to hold the motion. And I promised to send the letter before the vote. I think it's both possible. I therefore did not give an opinion on the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u105	The motion has been held.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u106	Mr. Chairman. Finally, the final motion. That's the motion in part No. 13 by Mr Koerhuis and Mrs Beckerman on the potentially dangerous boilers which are being investigated by NVWA. The outcome of that investigation is not yet known. I want to wait, as I said earlier, for the outcome of that investigation. If this is justified, appropriate measures must of course be taken, but I cannot, of course, anticipate the nature of the measures, since I do not yet know the content of the investigation. It's a little far for me to say that we're about to open a 0800 number. So I'm going to have to dissuade that motion. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the end of my second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u107	I'll come back to the previous motion. If there is a letter, could the Minister also comment in that letter on the possible cost effects and the possible delay if this motion were to be adopted in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u108	So it is about the motion in part No. 12.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u109	Of course, I can't say no to that. If Mr Smeulders so wishes, I will try to do so. But the main purpose of the letter will be to show that we have already done a lot, which makes it unnecessary to do it again. I have just said in my reply that it is superfluous and could indeed lead to delays. I don't know if in a few days I'm gonna get the costs all over me. But I have heard Mr Smeulders. I'll do my best.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u110	It's a little unfortunate. Of course, I had already said something about a motion along with the SP on extending reporting obligations to exhaust gases. Apparently, the Minister didn't quite hear that right in the first term. I'd still like to ask her to do that. Otherwise, we'll come back to it in a later AO or VAO.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u111	I do not know whether it was up to Mr Koerhuis or me, but I gave a more comprehensive answer than in the first period to really clarify that point. I am therefore waiting for Mr Koerhuis to come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u112	We have now come to the end of the debate on this draft law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-22-tweedekamer-3.u113	The votes on the bill and the motions are next Tuesday. I would like to thank Members for their input. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I shall now suspend for a very short time and then move on to a VAO on the Foreign Affairs Council.
