ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-26.u1	A warm word of welcome to the Secretary of Defense. The next item is the VAA on STUDY. The general consultation took place on 3 July, some time ago. I figured when was that? When I sat here, we had a large number of speakers. They've almost all pulled out. That is why I am happy to give the floor to the last speaker from the Chamber. That is Mrs Karabulut of the SP Group. She has two minutes' speaking time, and I am keen on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-26.u2	Mr President, you might also think that she is the only speaker, so let me give her the stage. But I understand, and I'll stick to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-26.u3	I meant it with a certain irony, so go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-26.u4	Five seconds, then. Mr. Chairman. In July we had a general discussion on the STUDY. I asked a number of questions there about special operations. There is a directive for that. Those are classified operations. That directive is from the year 2000. It says that such operations must always be accounted for afterwards. Now, through the media, through Major Kroon, we have received all kinds of details of special operations in Afghanistan, for example. Apparently, no question I have can be answered. The second point is that a book by Huib Mudderkolk recently appeared: It is war but no one sees it. It also states that we have been involved in all kinds of operations. Again, no responsibility. In the light of developments, I believe that transparency and more parliamentary control are necessary. That's why the next two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the special operations decision by Minister De Grave, which lists six types of special operations, has been in force since August 2000;]] [[Whereas, since the creation of the special operations decision, the Intelligence Act has been amended twice and special operations have not been amended;]] [[Considers that the information on STVD operations in general and special operations in particular is too limited in order to exercise proper parliamentary control;]] [[having noted that this cabinet has changed the ministerial decision-making on special operations;]] [[calls on the Government to send the Court an evaluation of the decision-making process on special operations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29924-189]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-26.u5	Mr. Chairman. The second motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[invites the possibilities to clarify how the Lower House can be better informed about special operations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29924-190]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-26.u6	During the AA, I asked the Minister to announce the appointment of the Secretary-General on external action by military forces. The Minister has promised me that she would make it public. To my best knowledge, that hasn't happened yet. So I would like to hear from the Minister when we can get that lead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-26.u7	I think it is important that colleagues should sometimes be able to explain why such motions are important, for example. We have also wrestled with this because there is a committee that is already getting information about it, but the Defence Committee is not in it. So can Mrs Karabulut explain to us what ideas she has on this matter: how else could we do that for the defence committee?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-26.u8	Thank you, Mrs Belhaj, for this very relevant question. First of all, of course, an overview could be given. That is what I said in the debate. We've had special covert operations for nineteen years now. That clue's been there for 19 years. We know through the media that operations have been carried out, but we have not received any information or answers to questions that could enable us to carry out our controlling task as spokesperson for the Defence Department and as spokesman for the Foreign Affairs Department. I think there are a lot of opportunities in this for improving information. We should also be informed. The form and circumstances of course can be discussed, but I think we should get that information. Two: I find it strange that we know that special operations are being carried out and that according to Huib Mudderkolk's revelations in his book we have been involved in one of the most violent cyber attacks, with Stuxnet in Iran, and that we have not been informed of this in any way. I would like to begin, for example, by informing us, for example, on how many operations we have participated in, but also on the issues that have already been extensively in the media. Why can't we be informed about this? I think we could repeat what we started last year, namely that as a committee we could organise a round table with experts and do it annually. There, for example, soldiers could also be invited, as is the case in Belgium. These are a number of directions of thought. A pressing question for the short term, which I believe the Minister could answer at this VAO, concerns De Grave's designation for the nuclear cabinet, which makes decisions on this type of operation. It's been changed under this cabinet. He wasn't like that before. I would, for example, like to see why that is the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-26.u9	Very good. I'm gonna take a break for a minute. Then we're gonna listen to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-26.u10	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-26.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin with just as clearly indicating the difference between Wiv operations and special operations. I think it's important that we all realize that difference. Special operations concern the deployment of specifically designated armies in complex situations. They are covered by the CDS and the MKSO line, which has just been mentioned by Mrs Karabulut. Secret operations concern the deployment of personnel under the Wiv, the Intelligence and Security Services Act. That distinction is important to know, because the operations under the Wiv are subject to a separate supervisory regime. That's what the CIVD is for, which is being recoupled. And finally, there's the CTIVD, looking at what happened. It's different for special operations. For this purpose, the framework set out by Mrs Karabulut has been established. That is what the MKSO decision-making is about. It also states that we will inform as soon as it is safe, and that is weighed up every time. If it can't be safe, we can't make any announcements about it. Now Mrs Karabulut says: there are people who talk in the media. I can tell you that I am not pleased that there is talk in the media, because we are still operating in some of these areas, as you know. We are still present in all kinds of countries in the world. It is not right that operations should be discussed in the press whenever. We always monitor how that happened, and whether and how we can inform about these operations. We sent a letter to the Chamber about that, too. I need to look up the date; I wrote it down. On March 27, 2018, we did that. Then there's the motions. There was one more question about the commitment I made in the...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-26.u12	Another interruption by Mrs Belhaj. At this point, I suppose.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-26.u13	Yeah, just on that last point. I don't know which media it was in anymore, but at some point it came out that a lot of former colleagues of Mr Kroon felt very uncomfortable, because they also have a ban on not being able to say anything about what they did...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-26.u14	A ban on saying anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-26.u15	Yeah, a ban, sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-26.u16	Yeah, but not to say anything, 'cause they can say anything. Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-26.u17	That would be fantastic in terms of transparency, but you have just said that you do not think it is sensible. However, at the time, it was the dilemma that many of Mr Kroon's former colleagues actually said that they didn't want him to talk so much about it at all. Many people knew that other people were there at the time. I think that is a dilemma, because those people have also felt unsafe by the fact that someone decided to go out, whether that story is true or not. Have you done anything about Mr Kroon's former colleagues' criticism?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-26.u18	Sure. It is my job, and our job at the Department of Defense, to monitor the safety of our men and women, whoever they are, and I can say very little about that in all operations. That means that we have paid attention to this. Moreover, we have also, of course, spoken with Mr Kroon about the statements he has made; I have already said something about this. Mr Mudderkolk's book, which has been quoted, is a different matter. That's a reporter on the outside who wrote something down. Nor can I say anything about the content of that book in itself, for example whether it is true or not. I've also looked at Buitenhof, like no doubt the members. Then you see that there is a lot of suspicion in the Netherlands in the field of what is happening. He says, when I look at the cyber war, I have to establish that it has begun. I have also spoken to the Members of your Chamber on a number of occasions about this. On that point, however, I think that Mr Mudderkolk is touching on a point: we should not be unaware of what is happening. From that part of the book, and from what he has communicated to the outside world, I can only say: I hope that more people realize that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-26.u19	Those are...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-26.u20	Mrs Karabulut, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-26.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course we're not. Can I ask the Minister what she thinks of the fact that a directive has been in place since 2000, but that the Chamber has, as I know, been informed zero more about these special operations? Major Kroon and his lawyers talk about these operations in the media and the minister may respond, but I can't say anything about it, let alone make a judgment on it. If the Minister thinks it is necessary, she will inform us about a possible hack attack by the Russians on the OPCW, with information that I cannot then judge myself. I have to read through a journalist's book that we may have participated in the biggest cyber attack of all time, but I still don't know anything. Does the Minister not agree that this is a little out of balance and that I simply cannot carry out my controlling task in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-26.u22	Mrs Karabulut cites two things. One: I never said anything about what Mr Kroon said. I won't, because I'm not talking about what's secret, as you know. I always say to you that you should not ask me about this either. Two: the OPCW hack is an operation performed under the Wiv. That is an operation that we have made public in this case. Maybe sometimes we can make more public. That's what we always weigh. That's what we've been talking about. The Wiv simply has a control regime, not through the Defence Committee of your Chamber, but the CIVD is for that. The CTIVD is also responsible for this and supervises it. It is therefore the case that this is being monitored on your behalf and that it is being discussed. We don't say anything about that outside alone. That is the nature of the legislation as it is and the nature of the operations. Is that uncomfortable? The answer is yes. It's always uncomfortable when you can't talk about something. You can be sure that if we can do something transparent, we will do so. We have weighed once to indicate the nature and seriousness of something that happened on Dutch territory. I can't say more than that right now. You must therefore make a clear distinction between these two tasks. Then there's the MKSO operations. These are operations performed under the CDS side, not under the Wiv. That is what the 2000 scheme is for. As soon as it is safe, and it is weighed every time, something is said about it when it is necessary. I and you must assume that what has been weighed so far cannot be safe.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-26.u23	The essence of my question... I quoted the OPCW because I liked and encouraged transparency; the Minister knows that. But at the same time I read that we may have participated in that Stuxnet attack. If we do that kind of offensive attack, we can expect a response to that. I want to be able to judge that and I want to be able to judge that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-26.u24	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-26.u25	My question to the Minister was: do you not think that, given all the circumstances, journalists, majors and the minister himself can make a weighted judgment with all the information they have, but that we cannot do so as a permanent committee of inquiry for defence? Is the Minister prepared to look into this and look with us for ways of doing something about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-26.u26	I already disagree with the fact that journalists and majors can make an assessment of this in a broad sense. So I do not share the assumption made by Mrs Karabulut. By the way, I know only one major who has made statements about it, but she has made more of it. Then I'll come to the motions, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-26.u27	We still have two minutes for two motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-26.u28	Yes, the motions. I need the motions on pieces number one. 189 and 190 both dissuade. We just have a regime that applies in two different ways. The MKSO I just explained to you and the Wiv has a separate regime. I don't see anything in it, and there's no need to make an evaluation of it and send it. The same applies to making it clear how the Lower House can be better informed about special operations. I'm sure this will happen if it's possible. So I'd like to dissuade both motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-26.u29	Fine. A brief question from Mrs Karabulut. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-26.u30	I hope that my roommates will vote massively in favour of these motions, because the Minister clearly does not want us to talk about it. It is really hard that the Minister does not even want to give an opinion on the fact that we have received zero information for nineteen years. I had another question about making public the appointment of the Secretary-General for military action.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-26.u31	Yeah, that's right. I owe that answer to Mrs Karabulut. I did promise to look into that. That's what we're doing now. We started this after the holiday, because this was on July 3rd. Our officials are allowed to take a vacation, just like the Chamber, right? So we are now looking at the extent to which this is possible. I will let you know as soon as possible, but at least for the budgetary procedure, so that you can do yours again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-26.u32	I'm sure she will.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-26.u33	I think so, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-26.u34	So much for this debate. Thanks to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-26.u35	On Tuesday we shall vote on the two motions. I'm gonna suspend for a moment and then we're gonna talk about space travel.
