ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u1	Finally, Mrs Ploumen of the PvdA for her question to the Foreign Minister, whom I would also like to welcome, about the news that China has hacked Dutch companies and the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last Saturday, RTL News reported that there is now confirmation that China has hacked Dutch companies and the Dutch government. That confirms suspicions we've had for a long time. Therefore, the following questions to the Minister. What happened in detail according to the AIVD? Has data been used and, if so, what data? What can the Minister tell us about that? Two: what measures has the cabinet taken to protect Dutch citizens, the Dutch government and Dutch companies from China's aggressive cyber strategy? Three: what contacts has the cabinet, the minister or colleagues had with Chinese colleagues or the Chinese government? And four: could the Minister say anything about when the long-awaited China strategy will finally come? And in what way is China's aggressive cyber strategy dealt with?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On 20 December last year, the United States and the United Kingdom announced that they were victims of hacks from China. On that day, the Dutch government also provided political support for the attribution, i.e. the allocation, to China by the United Kingdom and the United States. The coverage of last weekend's AIV was in line with our response back in December. Mrs Ploumen knows that I cannot share with the Chamber what has happened in detail. The Chamber may, through the Intelligence and Security Services Committee, ask questions to the ministers responsible for the security services. But it is not in the interests of Dutch security to share in public what exactly is known when. What measures have been taken? In addition to the political support we have expressed, which is a clear political signal, there has been diplomatic contact. Mrs Ploumen also asked: have there been any contacts? We have clearly shown that we have seen what has happened and have not been served by it. In addition, 95 million have been released in the coalition agreement for cyber security purposes. This is because it has been known for a long time, and is also announced through the annual reports of our intelligence services, that Dutch companies and institutions are the target of cyber attacks and cyber espionage. China is mentioned in the annual report of the intelligence service. That is also the reason for this investment, which is being made in different ministries. Finally, the Chamber is aware that the Netherlands is one of the hallmarks behind the creation of European cybersanctions. After the failed Russian hack on the OPCW, the chemical weapons institution here in The Hague, we, together with other countries in the European Union, took the initiative to jointly impose sanctions, because it is also best to do them together as European countries. These sanctions are already a long way in the direction of elaboration. This is an additional tool to be able to use in such cases. Indeed, the cabinet comes up with a China strategy. It'll be here next spring. It also includes this whole consideration of security, specifically cybersecurity, among other aspects. Of course, China remains a major player, while maintaining good and intensive contacts in many areas, but we will also be clear when practices that are not acceptable, such as cyber actions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u5	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the answers. The investment made by the cabinet has not been able to prevent these hacks from happening. So how does the Minister see the government's efforts, given that they could not prevent the Chinese government from hacking both the Dutch government and companies? Secondly, there is, of course, one, if I may put it this way, acute concern. How does the Dutch government protect vital infrastructure, such as our telecom networks, from a possible negative influence of China? That can't really wait for a China strategy that's in the making.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u6	In the first question, Mrs Ploumen put a number of things side by side that cannot actually be put side by side. She says that the fact that a hack has taken place, as announced by the US and the UK, indicates that the 95 million allocated in the Netherlands is not effective. As Mrs Ploumen does not know when which hack has taken place, because the intelligence services must be confidential about it, it is concluded that the 95 million can or cannot play a role in this. Once again, the Chamber can ask any questions it wishes to ask through the Intelligence and Security Services Committee. Then there is the second question: what measures will the cabinet take next? Economic Affairs colleagues have previously informed the Chamber that they are exploring legislation, for example on the protection of telecommunications. There is an extensive cybersecurity centre, as part of the Ministry of Justice and Security, which is also highly appreciated internationally. With the additional investments, not only there but also in a number of ministries in my ministry, additional cyber-diplomats are being adopted and additional training is taking place. We can further improve cyber-defense. I'm afraid that's necessary. Of course, I can't guarantee that you'll get it completely foolproof. This is, of course, generally true in the fight against crime or espionage. I can show that we take the problem very seriously and take action in many places.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u7	Mrs Ploumen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u8	Yeah, finally. The Minister says that it is not possible to assess whether our additional investments can be related to this hack. I note very simply that an additional investment has been made to protect the Netherlands, but that the Netherlands is not sufficiently protected against these hacks, because they have taken place. That has now been officially confirmed. That is a worrying observation on my part. I therefore continue to look forward to further action by the cabinet. I hope they will be included in the China strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u9	Mrs Ploumen insists on this. Again, it was a communication from the United States and the United Kingdom. What exactly happened in the Netherlands was never shared in public. So she cannot make the connection that Mrs Ploumen has here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u10	I am pleased that the China strategy, which the VVD has once applied for together with, I believe, the CDA, has now been shown here as a great hope. An important point here is the cyber sanctions that the Minister is talking about, which he advocates at European level. Is he also being helped by the European Member States in a wider area? When we talk to China, of course, we are talking about more than just sanctions. We must make it very clear that we have a united front in Europe, because the Netherlands is not the only victim. Does the Minister find sufficient support from other EU Member States to protect Dutch security and wider European security?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u11	As far as support for sanctions is concerned, not all European countries are equally enthusiastic about sanctions in general, regardless of whether they target China, another country or specific individuals. Nevertheless, it has been possible, fortunately, to impose sanctions in Europe from time to time, recently against Iran. As far as China is concerned, Mr Koopmans knows that this is undoubtedly the background to his question that some countries have closer links with China and have greater interests in relations with China than others. This can often be seen in the positions taken by these countries. At the same time, the subject of China concerns all countries. All countries see it as a combination of opportunities. It is a large country, which is a market and which is also important for other reasons, but it is also a subject of threat. It is therefore also regularly on the European agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u12	We're talking about China now. We were talking about Russia's espionage the other day. I can imagine that there are other sources, countries or other actors involved in this type of practice. Can the Minister say anything about the government's broader approach to all these threats?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u13	A brief reaction. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u14	The annual report of the AIVD specifically mentions China and the Russian Federation. Mr Koopmans is right that other countries or organisations may also be behind cyber attacks. This also means that defense against cyber attacks, but also awareness, not only with the government but also with companies and the public, is of great importance. That is why the services sometimes come out with information to make everyone aware of the measures you need to take.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u15	Mr. Chairman. I am very pleased with this question from Mr Ploumen. It's just a fact that corporate espionage, cyber espionage in size is rapidly increasing. It is also a fact that China indicates that it pursues technological dominance in the world and that it has corporate espionage as an important means of doing so. Moreover, Europe is relatively poorly protected and very attractive. So I think it is good that there is a China strategy; we have talked about this more often. I also welcome the diplomatic response. So thank you for that in the first place. But I also want a technological response from the cabinet. Then I am talking about making demands on suppliers who come into our vital infrastructure and about screening all kinds of companies that provide services. Is the cabinet gonna do something with that, too? Because that is also a very important step. That is not protectionism, but that is just realism.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u16	A logical question from Mr Verhoeven which is somewhat broader than my modest foreign policy area. So I think it is also appropriate that I should have discussions with colleagues and a well-founded answer to this question. The question of whether we are adequately protecting our public services and companies requires an appropriate answer. There are a lot of reasons to assume that we are doing important things there, but I would like to say to Mr Verhoeven that there is an extensive response from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-4.u17	Thank you. That brings us to the end of this Question Time. We're going to vote at 3:00.
