ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u1	I now give the floor to Mr Markuszower, on behalf of the PVV, to ask the Secretary of State for Justice and Security about the procedure in a fornication case against a prosecutor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u2	Oh, gross, Mr. Chairman. What filth, what filth, what injustice. What, a rule of law? And what a cowardly diver we have. Where's that CDA Minister Grapperhaus now? Having a little debate in the First Chamber. Couldn't that start 15 minutes later? The Minister simply dares not answer to the malicious prosecutor's office. 'Cause I can't put a word other than malicious on this state's attorney's office. What else should I call it? It's a ring of eleven aggressive, sex-hungry abusers, paedophiles, who seduce young children, commit adultery, blackmail, deceive, rape them. Ten of these dangerous perverts have been prosecuted and convicted. Not one. Vincent Leenders didn't. Vincent Leenders. He's not alone...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u3	Don't mention names, Mr. Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u4	The D.A.'s office. He is not only a former member of the youth party of the VVD, but above all also employee of Graperhaus, the great diver Graperhaus. That pedophile didn't just work at the D.A.'s office. He was Deputy District Attorney. He wasn't just a big pedophile, not only a big felon, but also a big boy in the state's attorney's office. He was the second man at the functional parquet in Amsterdam. Oh, gross, Mr. Chairman. His D.A. buddies let this pedophile go. How does the Secretary of State qualify the action of the Public Prosecutor in this matter? Does she agree with me that this is malicious behavior? Or are we dealing with the biggest klutgels in the Netherlands? Whatever it is, malicious or clumsy, it stinks like that D.A. on all sides.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u5	Let me get this straight. The Minister of Justice and Security has signed off properly because he is currently defending the bill closed coffeeshop chain in the First Chamber. That's a reason not to be here. That's always the deal. This is an explanation. I shall now give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u6	Mr. Chairman. The court of The Hague ruled in this case on the grounds that the Supreme Court had given the decision that another judicial body would rule on this case. I believe it is important to avoid the appearance of prejudice or disadvantage in the prosecution and trial of a judicial official suspected of a criminal offence. That judgment concerns an individual case. In that individual case the criminal investigation is still ongoing, because the Public Prosecutor has appealed against the court's ruling, so that case is still pending. As you know, I cannot deal with an individual criminal case involving an ongoing investigation. I would also like to draw your attention to the press release from the Public Prosecutor's Office on 1 November. In that press release, the state's attorney's office indicates the steps they've taken. I'm not getting ahead of myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u7	So the D.A.'s gonna get away with this, I understand. As a result, the following. How is it possible that the criminal case against my group chairman, where there has been evidence of political and administrative interference with the decision to prosecute and where there has been evidence of his persecution, will continue and the trial against that child-raping prosecutor will not? I'll help you with the answer. That is, of course, because the child-raping prosecutor is being helped, treated, feared and hated by his colleagues and Mr Wilders by that horrible Public Prosecutor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u8	I must point out, however, that if a prosecutor is suspected of a criminal offence, the Public Prosecutor should follow the procedure laid down in Article 510 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. That Article 510 Code of Criminal Procedure has sufficient safeguards to prevent the appearance of prejudice or disadvantage.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u9	The Secretary of State isn't answering. She's talking about it. It's embarrassing. People at home have to judge this. You hold a child-raping prosecutor over your head and the Dutch opposition leader throws you in front of the lions in a way that the mafia can learn from. You should be ashamed of yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u10	Mr President, may I make a comment on the last thing Mr Markuszower said?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u11	Yes, the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u12	He says you're holding someone over your head. The Minister of Justice and Security is not the one holding someone's hand over their heads. A procedure has been followed here and it is followed neatly by the book, and the case is still under the courts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u13	It is always uncomfortable to talk about concrete matters, but we are responsible for the procedures. This fornication has made it clear that there is an enormous vulnerability in the procedure. If the D.A. has to prosecute one of its own people, mistakes and mistakes can lead to the prosecution being stopped and the conviction not to continue. Does the Secretary of State recognize this vulnerability in this procedure? Is she willing to come up with a solution to this vulnerability in the Ministry? And then I express myself very neatly, because you can also call it a perverse incentive, with the result that there could be deliberate failure to pass judgment. I'm not saying I have proof of that, but for that vulnerability, a solution has to be found by the Ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u14	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u15	That vulnerability can occur in all cases, not just in this case. Vulnerabilities may occur in all cases. In this respect, this should not be an exception at all. It is also true that in this case the Supreme Court said that another judicial body had to rule on this matter. That has become the court of The Hague. Another step has been taken there. The district attorney's office has been dismissed. That was the court's ruling. In the meantime, the D.A.'s appeal has been filed. That's the procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u16	The Secretary of State is quite quick to say that the procedures have been properly followed by the book, but of course that remains to be seen. Is the Secretary of State prepared to at least give the Chamber a letter in which, when all this is done, it is considered once again whether this procedure is sufficiently clear, not only in terms of the letter but also in terms of its implementation, so that this kind of error can be avoided in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u17	Not long ago the Chamber received the report from the Fokkens Committee. The Minister will report on this regularly. On 17 October, the first progress report was submitted on the basis of the recommendations of the Foks Commission. As I said, he will report on this more often. This is about culture, leadership, appointments, governance and integrity. So I think it would be wise to discuss this further with the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u18	Yes, but they asked for a letter on this particular case. I know that Members of Parliament are only allowed to ask questions twice, and that is why I repeat the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u19	I cannot at the moment say on this particular case that there can be a letter, because that case is still under trial. I don't know how long that'll take.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u20	I think the Secretary of State is getting off too easy here anyway. What we know, at least, is that the Public Prosecutor's Office did not comply with a judge's appointment and that it is therefore possible that a suspect of child abuse will escape legal proceedings. Let us make it very clear that we are talking about a suspect; no statement has yet been made. The Minister, who is replaced here by the Secretary of State, is indeed systemically responsible for the Public Prosecutor's Office. A little more reflection and a little more answer to Mr Van Nispen's questions on how to prevent it in the future, I would find it appropriate. I do not think that the Secretary of State should hide behind the fact that the case is still on appeal, because the Ministry is simply responsible for the Public Prosecutor's Office and there seems to have been mistakes made. So I'd like an answer on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u21	I have already said to Mr Van Nispen's earlier question that mistakes can always be made in cases. I do not want to run away from the responsibility of the Minister of Justice and Security in matters that might concern the Public Prosecutor. I am not saying that this is necessarily true in this case, but it could be true. I don't want to run away from that. But it is true that, on the basis of the recommendations of the committee, it is therefore very interesting and important that the report of that committee should be discussed with the Minister, then Security and Justice, on how to deal with it, improve it and perhaps prevent it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u22	Thank you.
