ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u1	The next item is the continuation of the policy debate on the state of the rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u2	I give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u3	Thank you. You reminded us that the first and second periods of this debate took place on 22 May last year. You will forgive me if I am rather busy with deadlines, in connection with the enlargement of my family to a next generation. In particular, with the nine-month period, I noticed that it took exactly nine months for this third period to be conceived. We are talking about commitments today, of which the'status concipienne' indeed started nine months ago. In this respect, I am pleased that both Mrs Vlietstra and Mrs Van Bijsterveld have found that the colleague and I have been able to give birth fully to this. While we're here together, I'm giving you a little bit of history. A third term is not unique in this house. I myself remember the third term of the debate on the planned participation in the European Public Prosecutor's Office last April in order to give your Member Mrs Duthler the opportunity to amend a motion and to table another motion. Those motions have both been passed. This is another sign of the success of the third term. This third deadline is therefore often used to amend or submit motions after the second deadline, or in a very exciting debate, as perhaps today. Those nine months you don't see very much, but it may be a preoccupation of mine. Forgive me, Mr. Chairman. It is not a record I say to those who are furiously curious where this is on the ranking list. On Mr Van der Staaij's own initiative proposal to amend the Constitution on the procedure for approving and amending the EU Treaties, 30.874, I understand that a third deadline will soon be set in this House. The second deadline was already held more than two years ago, which was in January 2017. I am not going to elaborate on the period of pregnancy in the animal kingdom that takes two years. I'll spare you that list. Mr. Chairman. I assume that we will stick to this third term. I can see you thinking: that depends, of course, on the quality of the response. So I'll do my best to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u4	Above all, I hope that it will not be too difficult to give birth.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u5	Yes, Mr President, and then we don't even know whether it's going to be identical or two-eyed between us, but this whole thing aside. When we talk about the rule of law, I would like to tell you that I have recently sent this excellent report to the members of the Cabinet, encouraged by the Prime Minister: European judicial systems of the Council of Europe. This is a report that shows that the Netherlands is not only doing very well when it comes to quality, but is also in the leading group on the very large European comparison of spending on the rule of law. Of course, we know, and you are right to say so, there are still improvements to be made. It's a wonderful report. I have enough in my office to provide those of your Chamber who wish to take note of it. Mr. Chairman. Questions have been asked about the serious crime, and I will talk about that. I'll talk about the state's attorney's office and the police. I will focus on the vision of forensic detection, on the questions about the criminal justice chain and on a separate question, as a whole of the digital transformation, which Mrs Duthler has put on the threats to new technologies and possible quasi-monopolys and so on. Mr. Chairman. I will also answer the question on migration on behalf of the JenV Secretary of State. Let me start with a number of questions that have been asked about individual cases, about the prosecution and the measure of punishment. Mr Dercksen has asked whether we are going to do something about the standards in criminal law in a legislative sense. Serious criminals, as I understand it, come off with what he calls a "fake punishment," often also because intervention is taken if the act is not yet completed. It is up to the Public Prosecutor and the police to assess whether and when it is necessary and justified to act during criminal investigations. Those are difficult considerations. We saw that at the end of September last year when a number of suspects of terrorism were arrested. At some point there is a decisive moment in the matter where we have to trust that the experts, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the police are making the right decisions to intervene when it is the best time for criminal law, but also for society. I do not support Mr Dercksen's plea for the introduction of a law of intent. That would be at odds with the lex certa principle. A citizen must be able to know what behaviour he can be punished for. That is why the adoption of criminal liability in our criminal law for over a century has required 'action or omission'. In doing so, the degree of culpability is determined by the consciousness that has been acted or left behind. Punishment of people only for wrong plans without any practical application is absurd. This does not relate to us, and also to many other countries, the criminal justice system. I will hold on to the following questions from Mr Dercksen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u6	Mr. Dercksen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u7	Yes, Mr. Chairman, because it's not so much about someone who's thought up something in his head. I gave you an example, but perhaps you yourself have an even better example that they are planning terrorism. In my example, I pointed out that there have actually been serious acts, organized, to free someone from the mocromafia from prison. There was no one who came up with that alone; a lot of actions were done. If you don't want to, that's an opinion. But for that, I'd like to say to those cops and those detectives, thank you for your commitment, because these guys are gonna be locked up for a long time and not for a few months so they're gonna try again until they do. What can you promise that acts that have been carried out will be more severely penalised in preparation for serious organised crime?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u8	Mr President, I understand that the question comes to me through you. I think that Mr Dercksen and I are certainly on the same path if we both think that preparatory actions could or should be punishable. Our criminal law offers enough room for that. It is at any time for the court to decide whether, in a specific case, criminal acts have been committed. It is not for me to say anything about this, not because I could not talk about it, but because I simply do not want to influence the course of justice in any way, not on one side and not on the other. That's the part I have. By the way, that is a different role from that of Mr Dercksen, so I fully respect that he thinks about it freely.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u9	Mr. Dercksen, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u10	I'm just getting started, Mr. Chairman. The Minister would like me to speak through the chairman. I will. But then what's the signal you're sending out...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u11	That's the habit in the house, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u12	I didn't miss that, Mr. Chairman. What is the signal you send when automatic weapons are arranged, helicopters are arranged, preparations have been made to hinder the police in pursuit and they only disappear for a few months behind bars? The signal the minister sends is: well, you guys didn't succeed, try it in a couple of months when you're on the street again. The Minister of Justice doesn't want that on his conscience, does he?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u13	In this context, it is not for me to give signals in or around court cases. If at any point in the search and prosecution people have been apprehended, individuals or a group, in connection with a suspicion of having committed criminal offences, then the criminal trial should then look at how and what. What is or is not proven and what has been or has not been charged, is up to the actors in the criminal proceedings. Once again, I fully respect your Members' freedom of thought, even when they say in a particular situation: as a member of the First Chamber, I see it and have certain ideas or thoughts about it. But the role of the Minister for Justice and Security is, from the legal point of view, what we are talking about today is that he is at least not involved. I really shouldn't. I have great respect for Mr Dercksen's interruptions. There will be a few more questions, so there will undoubtedly be some interruptions. But he knows that this is my firm position, that my predecessors have always taken such a position since the first officer of justice in 1789.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u14	Finally, Mr. Dercksen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u15	Finally, on this subject. But you and the cabinet are also legislators with us. You can set the frameworks together with us and the Cabinet can propose to do so: if you take such preparatory actions, or in terrorism or in serious organised crime, we will lock you up for an x-period. That's the call I'm making, because you're frustrating society. You're frustrating all the police officers involved and all the detectives, because they're at home and they're thinking, "Why the hell did I do all this?"
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u16	As Mr Dercksen knows, I am very much in the process of tightening up criminal law provisions on organised crime and what is happening around it. I keep saying that it must be a matter of action or omission. Mr. Chairman. Mr Dercksen also had the following question: why is there a case of selective prosecution; do we have two states of law? Let me start by saying that the prosecution has its own prosecution policy. The Minister is not going to do that. A prosecutor takes his prosecution decision following the investigation. You could say... One could say: on the basis of the dossier. And he takes into account, and then you get a whole list: the facts, the circumstances, the person of the suspect and further data from the file. If the D.A. does not prosecute, this can be complained to the court in the context of the Article 12 criminal proceedings. It is not possible for me to say that on the basis of the 33 years of practical experience I have had until 25 October 2017 midnight to compare criminal cases. That is partly because of the fact that they are always different facts everywhere, but that is also legal: we have established rules, but we do have a test that also takes into account, as has been said, all the circumstances and facts of the case. I reject the suggestion that the prosecution should have a double standard in carrying out the prosecution policy. There's no indication of that either. If such a statement is taken, we must have empirical evidence of it. I don't and I don't see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u17	I thought I'd given you a very long list of examples, but maybe we can sum it up. Could the Minister give me an overview of the arrondissement of North Holland as to how long people have to wait there on average before DNA is collected? I can wobble it too, but as a representative of the people, I may have a small mark on it. Maybe I can get that from you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u18	I don't know if those data are in a database for how long people have to wait for DNA release. Let me put it this way. If there is indeed a relevant statistics of this kind, I would like to say this explicitly, then I will give your Chamber an undertaking to send it to your Chamber. If there's any relevant statistics. Mr. Chairman. Then Mr. Dercksen would have...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u19	Mr. Dercksen, just a few more minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u20	I would like to know the definition of "a relevant statistics." There's just a bunch of letters over there. There's got to be a messenger on the road. He'll have to go to people's houses to take DNA. It is quite easy to write down the dates of those letters and make an analysis of them, so I think that relevant analysis can be made very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u21	The minister's moving on, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u22	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Mr Dercksen also had a question which is actually more addressed to the Secretary of State, but which I am going to answer for you, about declarations that are not being dealt with if the perpetrators are known but are not being detained. The question is: how can you still have confidence in the rule of law? It's not like the D.A.'s office isn't gonna file a report or prosecute it. If a report is made, prosecution will take place wherever possible and the appropriate penalty mode will be examined. During the Secretary of State's work visits, it emerged that sometimes migration issues are the subject of a closer connection between the Public Prosecutor's Office and the migration chain. This is now being discussed. At the same time, there are good initiatives in several regions, such as the pilot community service for oppressive foreigners in the northern part of the country, for the application of fast-track law. By the way, I have been able to determine that myself.Now I am not speaking on behalf of the Secretary of State, but really from my own experience during a work visit in Groningen that took place on Saturday, 3 November 2018. In any case, the commitment is to share the experiences that already start there in several places and to improve the connection of the Public Prosecutor's Office to the migration chain in all places. It needs to be optimized.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u23	Mr. Dercksen, at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u24	Last week we had an expert meeting in this Chamber with Commission I and A. Right in front of the chair where the minister is now sitting, was Mayor Heijmans van Weert. You don't have to believe me, but believe a D66 mayor. He said, which I believe is well known, that the Public Prosecutor's Office systematically refuses to prosecute thieving, abusive, robbing asylum seekers. Don't believe me, believe the mayor of Weert. Who was prosecuted in Weert? The mayor, who took freedom-limiting measures against this thieving scum. You can say that Dercksen lives in another universe. But I base myself on these kinds of facts and data. I hope you will join my universe and that of Mr. Heijmans. Those are the facts. How can it be that stealing scum is systematically not being prosecuted by the literal words of the mayor? How do you expect the people of Weert and surrounding areas to experience the rule of law?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u25	I would like to say two things about this. I would just like to stress that the problem of annoying azc'ers is well-known. I told you, that's what we're talking about. The Secretary of State is indeed in the process of looking at how this can be countered by measures. A more detailed debate on this subject goes a little beyond the limits of this issue. Secondly, I want to say that I have regular contact with many mayors. Any mayor who considers that there are abuses, as Mr Dercksen's wording in one of the departments under my jurisdiction, is immediately prevented from doing so. That applies regardless of the party's turnout. I don't care about that at all. This applies regardless of the geographical location and whatever the problem. Other mayors, such as Mr Aboutaleb, have in any case raised the issue with Secretary of State Harbers and me. There's been more. If any mayor experiences such a problem, he is very welcome to speak well about it. That happens in the pre-emia, the National Security and Police Consultation, or the Strategic Security Council. Those are two consultations which I am chairing and which could relate to this issue. But it can also be done in a different atmosphere. If there is a problem, then very often within 24 hours, within two or three days, mayors, as should be in the Netherlands, come on coffee or we eat a sandwich or both. That's all I can say. I haven't received these complaints directly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u26	Mr. Dercksen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u27	It is even more worrying that you have not yet received these complaints, because they are on the front page of De Telegraaf. The mayor of Ter Apel is going crazy with that azc. The people in Ter Apel want the azc to close immediately because of all the nuisance. You just say here: I haven't heard those messages yet. Then there's something far more deeply wrong than I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u28	Mr Dercksen blames a service which falls within my remit, a service which I have very high regard for, the Public Prosecutor's Office, let me tell you that on the basis of what would seem to have been shared by the mayor of Weert. That is what I am saying: if there are abuses in a service under my command, then I expect drivers to just report to me. That's how strong the Netherlands is. We don't do that through the paper or the television.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u29	Finally, Mr Dercksen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u30	Yeah, finally. Then I really have the request that you contact Mr. Heijmans and the mayor of Ter Apel, because it's up to them here. That nuisance continues. That azc scum is not systematically prosecuted. So please contact me. Will you undertake to put an end to this immediately, so that the Public Prosecutor will work?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u31	Once again, the problem of harassing asylum seekers falls within the portfolio of Secretary of State Harbers. I told you, he's really doing that. Something very different is that Mr Dercksen says that a mayor says that the Public Prosecutor's Office is dysfunctional. If that is the case, then I say very clearly: mayors know that they can go to me immediately for that. I've said it three or four times now. I don't know if there's really millions of people watching tonight, but at least it must have occurred that that conversation is always possible. I believe that such a point should be removed from the driver in question. It's not the other way around that I have to go into the country and ask people if something's wrong. Mrs. Strik mentioned the evaluation of the Law on Public Health. That's a really important subject, I think. She said that in 38% of cases the judge imposed a lower sentence than the sentence. That number looks at the administrative criminal decisions. In this respect, I will investigate the reasons for finding suitable solutions. The percentage of criminal decisions imposed by the Public Prosecutor is significantly lower. In order to counter the opposition for the reason that the judge imposes a lower sentence, the designation in the Public Prosecutor's Order has now been amended. This is also intended to ensure that the prosecutor imposes penalties in the criminal order which are more consistent with the penalties that the judge would impose. Indeed, the criminal decision has acquired a permanent place and, according to the evaluation, offers the defendant more procedural guarantees than the transaction. The evaluation also shows that the imposition of criminal decisions by the Public Prosecutor's Office, the police and administrative bodies is being carefully carried out. I would also like to point out that the Attorney General at the Supreme Court, as you know, is following and reporting on this process, at the initiative of my predecessor, but now of mine. I refer to the letters. It is clear that I fully understand Mrs Strik's questions. I follow this process very closely, precisely because I think it is an important achievement in our legal system, because it certainly still needs to be improved. Mrs Strik also asked whether I recognise that measures of a punitive nature are reserved for criminal law and how the use of these powers is monitored. Of course, that is not the case. Widely accepted - see also the Council of State's position on this last year - is that administrative measures may also be punitive, such as administrative fines, and should also be possible. Otherwise, the monitoring of compliance with the law would lead to some kind of interrogation of criminal law. You actually bring your entire society into criminal law. I don't think that's the idea. I think it is important to note in this context that the penalties imposed by administrative means should not be more punitive than those imposed by criminal law in similar cases. On this point, I intend to take legal measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u32	As a measure...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u33	We'll wait for the minister to join us. He's looking in his papers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u34	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u35	The point is, of course, the following. Even if it is an administrative fine, when it comes to punitive measures, it also imposes certain requirements on the judicial review of such an administrative fine. Then you also have to deal with the protection of Article 6 of the ECHR. Then there will also have to be a full review by the administrative judge. We're not really used to that in administrative law when you compare it with how a criminal deals with cases. Can the Minister comment on that? How is it sufficiently guaranteed that legal protection by means of that follow-up test fits with a fine, with a penalty?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u36	The complicated part of the story is: it is and remains an administrative fine. This means that in any case it happens in a domain that is expressly not criminal law. I think it is very important that you pay close attention to the fact that it does not have a more "punitive" character than if something had gone through criminal law. That is also the opinion of the Council of State on this issue. And again, that is where legislative measures are being looked at. Let me say it more generally, because this is primarily with my colleague. But yes, we must of course keep an eye on that distinction that is there. That is precisely why, says the Council of State, you have to make sure that there is a difference. Mrs Van Bijsterveld asked me about the administrative approach: in what way does the Minister facilitate that in dealing with crime both traces, i.e. criminal law and administrative law, go hand in hand and strengthen each other? I think it is a good thing that she has drawn attention to this, because these threats to mayors really are a social offense. In the fight against many forms of crime and insecurity, the integrated approach involving both instruments is important. I support this in several ways, including the money that the cabinet has provided me with to tackle this undermining crime. You can see that without that integrated approach, you can actually make far too little progress. This integrated approach also allows you to see which type of intervention is most effective in which case: criminal, administrative, fiscal or civil. Last Friday I sent a letter to the House of Representatives explaining in detail how I am stimulating this breakdown in types of intervention with money and resources. But last Friday was too short a time for your Members to be able to really get to know this letter for the preparation of this debate. However, this integrated cooperation is also mainly facilitated by the well-known system of the ten Regional Information and Expertise Centres and the national LIEC, and by the support that these centres offer to municipalities in the administrative approach. Mr President, it may be a little unusual, but I would strongly advise the Members of your Chamber to just take a visit to the LIEC here in The Hague. I believe that some of your members have also visited the Cyber Security Centre once. During such a work visit to the LIEC you can indeed see how incredibly stronger we are by bringing together that information and expertise and then opting for the integrated approach. This is particularly important in the case of organised crime. This organized crime is getting harder and harder. People go there in the field of threatening mayors. But also people are shot while afterwards it turns out: oh, we should have someone else. In short, it is of a kind of "non-gentleness" about which most crime fighters also say: this is different than it was 20 years ago. We do indeed need this mutually reinforcing approach. Finally, I would like to add that I am talking to Mr Snel van Financiën to see how we can strengthen the financial and fiscal approach even more in this context. That's what's in last Friday's letter. After all, I think it is no secret to say that intervention in the power position is above all an important weapon in the struggle. Before I come to a question from Mr Backer and Mrs Van Bijsterveld, there is now a question from Mr Dercksen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u37	Taking money from criminals is, of course, very important, in order to remove the breeding ground for this crime. I saw the minister on television at Jinek's. A question was also asked to him about the double passports, because it was then about the right to vote. But these double passports are for quite a few people a free pass to bring the money to Morocco, Turkey, Suriname, because they are not or hardly paying attention. So wouldn't it be a good idea not only to abolish these double passports because of votes, but on that point, the Minister may disagree with the PVV, but wouldn't that abolition also be much better to get a grip on all kinds of money flows to the countries I mentioned?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u38	I would like to repeat what I said about this in the relevant broadcast, although it is of general fame, but nevertheless. In the situations where there is a dual nationality, Dutch nationality can be reduced if there is an irrevocable conviction for a terrorist offence, but also if there is a danger to national security. Especially the latter offers a certain space. In the end, I think that we in the cabinet are putting a lot of effort into tackling the undermining in terms of where the money flows are going and where we can seize them. And it is important that we do so through both digital and other knowledge acquisition and collection, and through indeed good cooperation between police, OM, Tax Service and municipalities. You were able to read in the newspaper yesterday that an amount of 45 million in hidden assets has been confiscated by the Tax Administration. You have to see that, in addition to all the efforts made on criminal law, in addition to all the efforts made on administrative intervention, I have had a few discussions with your Chamber on this subject. Before Mr Dercksen reaches the microphone, I would just like to say that I am working on a law on data processing through partnerships. It is precisely this law that sees that, in certain situations, we can also extend in cooperation between bodies and services in the case of information gathering that brings us to the money. We do so with respect for the privacy of ordinary citizens and indeed with a good involvement of the Dutch Data Protection Authority. Because, of course, we are concerned with taking away these organisations' dominant position and their resources and, apart from that, prosecuting and punishing those people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u39	But you don't get that money, because in Turkey, Morocco, Suriname and such countries they were explicitly called "not a priority" at all. So you're not gonna get to that money. You didn't answer my question. Do you see the possibility of taking away a second passport as a weapon to get those money flows from the criminals in sight and to take away the money?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u40	Let me put it a little less. Then we should simply go into a legislative process on this point where I come across all kinds of treaty-law boundaries, and also very understandable borders. I think it is much more useful to focus on the proper mapping of these flows of money. And they may not only go to the countries mentioned by Mr Dercksen, but they also go to all kinds of islands that are a long way from here, I might add. There's a very wide variety in that. And the most important thing is that by exchanging information at a timely time, we have a picture of money flows and assets. Fortunately, you read more and more often in the media that we intercepted at the right time. Mr. Chairman. Mr Backer and Mrs Van Bijsterveld both asked about the funding of the Public Prosecutor's Office. Until recently, the funding was a so-called lump sum payment. Both from the Ministry and the Public Prosecutor's Office have expressed the desire to make the funding more transparent and to make it more consistent with the performance of the Public Prosecutor. The General Court has also, from a different point of view, in the past advised on this in a report on the performance of the criminal justice chain. It stated that the funding system of the case-law and the public prosecutor were not properly linked. In recent years, a new funding system has been worked hard in good consultation. I would like to stress here that the lessons learned from the funding system of justice have been taken into account. Point one: it has been taken into account that the D.A. carries out activities that do not always lead to criminal proceedings. This is clearly taken into account in the funding. Two: it has also been taken into account that certain types of costs, such as ICT, housing and the like, are relatively fixed for the shorter term and should therefore be included. The system, as it is now working with, is that there is a trial year first. From next year prices will be fixed every three years. According to this system, a 50% basis is established and above that, four categories of cases are covered by a reimbursement system. That system is, I honestly say, also discussed by me with the House of Representatives, because also in the House of Representatives came the groups of CDA and D66 which would have been coincidental with similar questions. So that adjustment doesn't come from myself. But that's what we're gonna do. I informed the House of Representatives of this in a letter at the end of last year. I am prepared to forward that letter to your Chamber as far as it is not yet known. I hereby undertake to send him. There's no harm in that. Then I had a question from Mr Dercksen about the uncontrolled acceptance of immigrants in the police forces. The question was whether I endorse the report to which reference was made and what I am going to do about it. The starting point for selection is simply an objective, individualised assessment of the candidates. The qualities of the staff member concerned must at all times comply with the required duties. The police are making increasing use of competence-oriented recruitment and selection. It examines what additional competences are needed in a team. Sometimes it can be speaking a particular language, having a certain network or background in terms of training. That is what is being brought to fruition. In this way, you do not have diversity as a kind of self-standing goal, but rather diversity to really strengthen the police. And, Mr President, I should like to say straight away to Mr Dercksen: I also believe, as Minister of Justice, that at least the services that come under me will only be better and that, by recruiting this very focused, responsible, transparent way, we really see the whole of society reflected in the services.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u41	Shouldn't the purpose be to hire qualified personnel? Do you not endorse the report by Professor Tops, among others, which I quoted and which states that recruitment is in a hurry and that promotions favour minority groups? You can say that it is not, but it is even written in internal police notes. What are you going to do about it, because I hear you telling a story that everything is going well?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u42	It is well known that Professor Tops and I have a very good working relationship. He has written a wonderful report on the Dutch synthetic drug industry, i.e. the report is impressive, but the conclusions are gloomy. That is what I said in last week's press release. I don't always follow the line he's putting in. It could be. I have just explained to you that the police have a conscious, good quality policy, part of which is that the police are properly reflected on society. This includes diversity, because society is not just made up of people who look like Mr Akerboom, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u43	That's not my point at all. I'm interested in you hiring people who are qualified. Whether they're yellow, brown or green, I don't care. It's about hiring the best person for the job. The area police report is extremely critical of this. You say it's someone's opinion, but it's a professor's internal police record. It's not just an opinion, but it's a report that's just inside the police. My request to you was to do something about that: make sure you hire the best people available and do not select on all kinds of other features.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u44	I have just said in my reply, both in the first term and in my response to Mr Dercksen, that competences, on quality, are primarily selected. It then looks at additional competences. This includes competences that can lead to greater diversity. As far as Mr Tops is concerned, I certainly respect his research work, but I may sometimes look at a certain conclusion or opinion, based on the research that has been done, differently. The fact that this is allowed in this country makes life so beautiful. Mr. Chairman. Mr Dercksen also asked about the reports on drug crime. He said there aren't enough search frameworks. The development agenda has already been formulated for the area police. There is a balance between enforcement and detection. An important part of the development agenda is cooperation in the field of anti-undermining. The approach is that the police focus very clearly on providing staff, so that they know how to discover these phenomena in society. I can assure you that I can also see that on work visits you and I don't see it when we go down the street. Maybe you can see it, but I don't see it. Those agents have been trained to see through very small signals that there are activities that could hide undermining crime. The second is to strengthen local cooperation. I have already discussed this in detail in Mrs Van Bijsterveld's reply, so I will not repeat it here. A third point is that all kinds of small-scale projects are being organised to tackle local undermining. I also made EUR 100 million available. I am also quite willing to send the letter with the advice of the Strategic Board Undermining on where the money should go, to your Chamber. I do not want to spoil you with the pieces just before the skiing holiday, but you see very clearly an answer on how the district policemen and other policemen are equipped for this. Mrs Van Bijsterveld asked to what extent the police are supporting the points of the evaluation of the Police Act. Unless I say the improvements I have proposed. I sent the cabinet position to your two chambers in June. In the previous period, I even thought in the direction of Mrs Van Bijsterveld, I stressed that we really consulted everyone on this issue. There is broad support for this, including with the authority of the police. On 2 April there will be an oral consultation with your Chamber to discuss the cabinet position and the evaluation. I'd like to look forward to that discussion. I think that's very good. The evaluation is not the only reason to improve the police. Of course, there are also, in the on-going process, matters that are perceived to be different or better. The strengthening of detection and the area-based police are examples of this. Mr. Chairman. I also sent a letter to your Chamber last summer on the flexibilisation of the police organisation and the expansion of strength. The plans are all drawn up together with the police. Finally, I would like to say that it is well known from media statements that I have made the appointment with the unions and the corps leadership to sit together every four months to see how, on the one hand, the elaboration of the collective agreement and, on the other hand, the development process of the national police force continues. That had never happened before, and at least that works properly so far. Anyway, let's not applaud too early, because we've only had one or two of those consultations, so we're not there yet. Mrs Van Bijsterveld had a question on a very different subject, the NFI. She also addressed the criminal justice chain. The vision I suggest is that there should be a different division between the NFI and police labs and between the NFI and private labs. The starting point is to increase the supply and speed of forensic research. This is simply because there is an economic incentive for private labs, which focus on simpler tasks, to work more efficiently. At police labs we see that the proximity to the crime scene and another use of police resources, including the shift from tactical to technical research, achieves an enormous quality stroke for the police. These are pragmatic considerations; Mrs Van Bijsterveld really has a point there. It is not a new direction in principle. In the consultation with the management and works council of the NFI, I found that these are good steps to simply position the NFI more and more as the main owner of the forensic research and also really the party that continues to do the high-quality research, and also continue to do simple work. But for many of the really simple work others can be engaged, under the proper supervision of the NFI. It is not the case that this will have to lead directly to lower costs, as is now being said. But the intention is that, if it is not in the long run, if it turns out that private providers are not faster and/or cheaper than the NFI or police labs, the ratio will in any case lapse to put it down with those private labs. But we have to give that time. Based on field research, the expectation seems to be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u45	I understand that the Minister is indeed saying that this is being done now, but that the real aim is to return to the public sector when there is a better view of the size and nature of activities that are privately outsourced. I would like to ask this because, on the one hand, I can understand what the Minister is saying, but on the other hand, of course, it is about the core of the state's tasks: detection and, hopefully, prosecution. In addition, of course, you want a good feedback to the police about the results.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u46	I agree with what Mrs Van Bijsterveld says, that you should continue to look very critically at this. Again, I mentioned the category of business involved. If we can say that this is done under adequate supervision in terms of quality and that there are also speed and price indicators, this is also in the interests of forensic research itself and of the NFI. Because then the NFI can use the available capacity better. Furthermore, you have money left, because there is less to spend. Another question from Mrs Van Bijsterveld was about the coordination within the chain between the police and the prosecutor. In the letter of 29 June, together with Mr Dekker for Legal Protection, I explained the expected results of digitisation. The results focus on 2021. Very briefly: minutes-verbal go digitally into the chain. That's what we call "digital born." Criminal decisions shall be prepared and processed digitally for the purpose of execution. All the image and audio material relevant to the case file, i.e. the evidence, is available to all parties, anywhere in the criminal justice chain. Then the citizen can choose in the kind of contact: face to face, telephone, paper, mail, internet. He can take care of business directly, he has 24/7 insight into the progress of his case. He can communicate with the chain in a timely and understandable manner, and he himself decides what he wants to be informed about and not about. In exercising his rights, he shall be facilitated. That goes a long way. I was in Apeldoorn last September, where I got a demonstration of how it works with BOTs that are used to collect certain people's reports and deal with them in a much more enjoyable way for people than when they might get an overloaded operator on the phone. With their questions, they can go straight to the good guys. Resources have been made available in the coalition agreement for the digitisation of the work processes in the criminal justice chain. In any case, this has an important priority, especially in order to make it more compatible and to greatly improve the provision of information. Mr President, I'm almost through. Mrs Strik asked about the state of the Netherlands' connection to the optional protocols. Your Chamber has been informed several times about the decision-making on ratification. The VWS Minister wrote in a letter last November that there is no decision yet on the ratification of IVESCR. He indicated that this is a complex decision-making process. I understand that that answer can be regarded as disappointing, but I myself think that is perhaps my legal breast-feeding that such a process needs to be carried through very carefully. There was a very recent discussion within the cabinet about the ratification of these optional protocols. My colleague, Mr Blok, will be coming up with a letter in the near future which will deal with the timetable of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u47	I certainly wouldn't call on the government to make hasty decisions. But in this case it is about signing the optional protocol in 2009 by the government. So we have been discussing for some ten years whether we think ratification is a good idea. What exactly was the idea when we signed the protocol? What are these considerations? So what has happened so far to clarify whether or not it is a good idea to finally ratify?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u48	I find the last part of the question a little difficult, because then I would prelude to the letter that Mr Blok is going to send. I can at least say, if that is a slight comfort to Mrs Strik, that that timetable means that the intention is to send a letter to the Chamber between now and four weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u49	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u50	Let me make it clear that this has been in the Chamber for five years, so I would very much like some clarification. Does this mean we're getting a letter about the timeline in four weeks? Or are you predicting that we will receive a letter in four weeks' time containing the government's position on ratification?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u51	I believe that the position on the timetable is determined how the cabinet intends to proceed with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u52	Finally. Then you are very optimistic, because I have already seen a lot of letters on timetables for ratification, and there was nothing else to say about that. I would like to know whether that opinion is already there, what that opinion means and what the Council of State has said about the other two protocols that are still there, to possibly sign and ratify.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u53	That is the opinion of the Council of State, but I am not going to go into that now, because then I will again prelude to Mr Blok's letter, which I find outside the context of this debate. I'm not gonna prelude in any way. The only thing is that Blok takes that advice from the Council of State and indicates what the timetable for the cabinet is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u54	Mrs. Strik, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u55	Just so we're clear, that means we'll be told whether the bill is being filed or not. The bill hasn't been filed yet, has it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u56	No, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u57	The Minister, and then we finish this little debate, because you stay together...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u58	No, but, Mr President, this is a debate on the rule of law. I said: there will be a letter from Mr Blok, on an issue that has been going on for a very long time, where Mrs Strik indeed has a point...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u59	One dot.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u60	Yes, well, I do not think that I should anticipate that letter in the context of this debate, especially since there is now an opinion from the Council of State, as I have already said. That is just the case, and it will be discussed in the context of that letter. I do not think that, in this debate on the rule of law, it should suddenly be about a letter to be written, of which I have indicated the timetable within the timetable. So I'm not gonna say anything about that. It'll be there in four weeks, and that's all I'm saying about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u61	Mrs Strik, all in all; a comment, not a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u62	Yes, one brief remark: I find it strange that the Minister seems to find it strange that this is being discussed in the context of the debate on the rule of law. The motion was tabled at the very first debate on the state of the rule of law in this Chamber. There was great support for this motion. I find it extremely disappointing that the various successive cabinets take the motion so little seriously and give so little openness as to what they really intend to do with the individual right of complaint in relation to human rights treaties.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u63	I suggest that the Minister continue his speech now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u64	Yes, there will be a letter and it will clarify what the Council of State thinks, and that does not seem to me to be insignificant. Mr. Chairman. Then Mrs Duthler had a question that came up in the context of several questions to Mr Dekker for Legal Protection, about digitisation. That was a question about what the cabinet is doing in the context of the threats posed by new technologies, more focused on those near monopolies, as Mrs Duthler described it. The risks in this respect to vital infrastructure, national security and market conditions are addressed by the public authorities. This is clearly warned in the Cybersecurity image of the Netherlands. Those national risks in foreign acquisitions and investments and in awarding contracts are reflected in the Economic Security Programme and instruments are developed to reduce those risks and strengthen resilience. As part of the further development of this policy, the issue of the risks of high dependencies of strong technology companies or firms will certainly be taken into account. Almost monopolies. The cabinet will come back to this later this spring in a letter to the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u65	Would the Minister, first of all, also like to send that letter to the First Chamber? The Minister talks about the effects. I understand that he takes the aspects of monopoly positions with him in procurement procedures. He's talking about national security, but what am I supposed to think about? That is not quite clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u66	I believe that this has already been highlighted in Mrs Duthler's speech and in the question. The risks are there for certain infrastructure but also for certain markets, when you are indeed dealing with parties with very high market power and especially when those parties have a certain relationship with state actors; that is what this is about. In this context, the Cabinet is developing a programme in the field of economic security. I shall return to that in the letter and I undertake to send it to your Chamber as well, so from now on to both Chambers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u67	I'm just thinking about what the Minister is saying in concrete terms. I am certainly pleased with the letter that has been promised. Do I hear the Minister say, when he talks about the economic security of these companies, that he is thinking, for example, of eavesdropping?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u68	You can think about that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u69	I'll wait for the Minister's letter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u70	May I ask the Minister how much longer he thinks he needs?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u71	I've got one more piece and I'll be all over it. That is the response to Mr Van Dijk's motion on the rethinking of the rules on the compulsory automatic appeal in Article 22a of the National Law on the Netherlands. Here's what I'm gonna do. Withdrawal of Dutch citizenship is a firm measure. This is why, during the parliamentary examination of the legislative proposal that led to that regulation, as well as during the consultation phase, several parties called for a role for the courts in that form of withdrawal of Dutch citizenship. The way in which it is now regulated also reflects the different interests: on the one hand, the importance of judicial review of a revocation decision, on the other hand, the importance of banning the person concerned from Dutch territory, with a view to protecting national security. It is also in the interest of the Dutch State to clarify in the short term whether a person still has Dutch nationality. This is achieved by the current regime, because there is always a judicial review. That is no longer the case with the removal of the regulation, so I must advise against the motion in that regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u72	First of all, I welcome the Minister's response, which has been considerably longer than the one we have received, with all due respect, so thank you for the answer. Just as basic, there is a report of 50 pages, in which it is very clear that a special construction has been chosen. Legally it is not necessary, because the AWB is sufficient, and Europe does not need it. Those were two decisive anchors. I quoted Minister Van der Steur. Do you share the conclusions of that report, which states that this is true and that we are not legally obliged to do anything, not even from Europe, so it is really a choice of how to give terrorists an additional form of legal protection in this respect?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u73	I have also just stressed that it is not so much an extra form of legal protection but that, so to speak, there is at least ex nunc a judicial review. This will save the kind of delay that could occur later in the procedure, because there has been no judicial review and all kinds of obstacles are raised. So I don't think it's an option to assume that you could do this without ever having any kind of judicial review. That would really go wrong in the state of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u74	That it would go wrong under state law, I absolutely cannot get it out of the report. I don't think we're legally committed to this at all. It is a political choice to choose. In the end, we decide whether or not we need to. Isn't it very ridiculous that for fear that such an involved jihadist himself doesn't recognize or discover that this is behind him, you are forced to fight your own decision which has been very carefully thought through? There's something ridiculous about it, isn't there?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u75	I didn't say "statutory law," I said "statutory law." I admit that Scrabble gets the same number of points, but it's really something else. Now let's talk about the constitutional issue. I am going to try to put it very clearly in other words. So if you don't do this, you'll get a decrease in Dutch citizenship in many cases from people who didn't appear at the hearing because they're somewhere else. So you can have at a much later stage all kinds of procedural objections or someone going to the European Court, no matter how popular we think about that court. As my old mom always calls it, you're even further away from home. Then you better do that test with a little time loss in advance, so you know at least that a judge has looked at it at the beginning. I do not have the copyright on this regulation, because it was there when I became a minister, but I think it is a very sensible solution, because it gives a judge a test in law. Besides, you do it in such a way that you don't get into the process later that people suddenly come on radar. So I'm okay with this putting together like this. Mr Dercksen asked why we let Algerians and Moroccans in at all. The Netherlands is a rule of law and we cannot refuse admission on the basis of nationality alone. That's not state law, but it's legal law once it's what it's like. Mr Dercksen also pointed out, as he also stated in a motion, that we should have rules for asylum seekers as soon as possible so that they would be placed in a completely closed establishment. In the event of a violation of the penal law, the primary aim is to pursue criminal prosecution with criminal detention where that is the case. Furthermore, it is possible to require residents to stay at the COA site for a certain period of time and a restriction of freedom may also be imposed. If a foreigner is not allowed to leave the area of the shelter by default, then that is a liberty-absorber and then the legal frameworks for foreign detention, as set out in international treaties, apply. The cabinet would like to see more room for earlier detention in a number of cases, especially in the case of harassing asylum seekers who commit criminal offences. That is also the current commitment to the negotiations that Harbers is conducting in Brussels on the European asylum system. I would also add that this is not something you can achieve from today to tomorrow, but I would like to stress to Mr Dercksen that this is our commitment. Then we also have a real solution. Mr Dercksen's solution is not that, because it goes legally, to speak in clubs, wet. I therefore advise against that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u76	There's all kinds of table games coming along. Of course, that's very nice, but for the time being a lot of people are in big trouble. Last week we had not only the mayor of Weert on visit, but also a director of an azc with poignant stories. That meeting's online, so maybe it's an idea to take a look back. That mayor of Weert passionately pleaded for a wall around the azc where this scum is now housed and where the employees are hardly sure of their lives. I actually hear the Minister say: I do not care, because Brussels, because this and that. But you're sending our people on an aso-azc that their lives aren't sure. The gate is open. They're being put out on the street, and we're just going to have to face the fact that they're being robbed, abused, and I know all of them. Which side is this minister on anyway?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u77	I have already indicated in an earlier reply to Mr Dercksen that Mr Harbers and I recognise the problem of troublesome residents of asylum seekers' centres. I spoke about the solutions that are being worked on during a working visit to Groningen on 3 November last year. Because it's his wallet, Harbers is of course doing much more on a continuous basis. If we want to solve this problem properly, there are a number of measures that we need to take. With regard to the Public Prosecutor's Office and the migration chain, there really needs to be even better coordination and connection. A second thing is what Mark Harbers is doing in Brussels now, and that is to stand up for the extension of that foreign detention. However, we should not choose solutions that are not sustainable. If you want to put down some wall that will have to be broken down from the right, then we are not playing that, but an old Dutch expression is pushing the horse behind the cart. And we shouldn't do that to each other. We must recognize these problems, find meaningful solutions that will help us further. Moreover, I keep saying that you have a lot of visitors, Mr President-in-Office, that anyone who says that the services of the Minister of Justice and Security are dysfunctional on this point can turn to me. I insist that they do function properly and that the Public Prosecutor and the police are really looking for solutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u78	Mr. Dercksen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u79	One of the solutions would be to call the state's attorney's office tomorrow and say, "I'm actually going to prosecute every criminal asylum seeker." That would be the solution, because then we can at least put them in the ordinary prison. Is that the solution at least for the short term?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u80	I have indicated sufficiently what realistic solutions take account of the rule of law and state law. Mr. Chairman. I'm at the end of my third term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u81	Before you sit down, I still see Mr Backer and Mrs Strik trying to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u82	I listened to the Minister about the budget and how he's going to finance the prosecution. I see a form of synergy in that, because he learns from what is happening to his colleague. That's good. There were always many defenders of the synergy of Security and Justice; we did not belong to that, but well, I see an example here. But does it work the other way around? I see the Minister for Legal Protection with huge financial deficits. I see that Mr Grapperhaus's activities have involved a great deal of money in the budget. Are they going to be integrated together with the synergy that exists, improving the financial problem of the legal chain? If everything works as it should work on the OM side and the search side and there are the serious cases that Mr Dercksen is talking about, then they come before the multiple chamber. Then it must be able to be dealt with and the capacity must be there for it and then the funding must be there for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u83	That is actually another game of company, because this question is "three in one." Let me make this very clear. In the context of, for example, the structural expansion of the police, extra money has been provided for further down the chain. Let's start with that! At least that's one thing. The second thing is that, of course, we look very closely at whether all the budget lines are in order, because in the end it comes under a single budget, that of Justice and Security, and I am the one who is ultimately responsible for that budget. I firmly believe that this is the case. That's another point. One final point, however, is this. We have, of course, also defended our budget here in your Chamber. It clearly indicates where the funds are going. Along this path, Mr Dekker and I are working in good cooperation with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u84	Mr. Backer, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u85	You have also listened to the financial problems in this debate. They're mostly in your colleague's wallet. I was concerned that there too the synergy should be used if it is not for this budget or for the next budget to solve the structural problems. That's why it's a good thing you're both here. Mr President, this was not a question but a comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u86	Good. That is why the Minister does not need to react.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u87	I heard the Minister say at the beginning of the term that he would also answer the questions that actually come on behalf of Secretary of State Harbers. I asked a question about the motion adopted here on the legal protection of asylum seekers in the Kingdom, in Curaçao and Aruba. I do not know whether I can expect an answer from this Minister or whether Minister Dekker will answer the question. They're both just as sweet to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u88	That should be an answer from me, but I have to tell you that I... Mr President, I do not know whether this is possible under the Rules of Procedure, but I really need to... Oh, no, I understand from my officials that that is with my colleague Dekker.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u89	All right, let's wait and see. Otherwise, at the very end of the debate, the Minister will have a brief opportunity to answer that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u90	No, Mr President, I would like to give another opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u91	All right, I'll thank the Minister of Justice and Security. I call the Minister for Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u92	Mr. Chairman. In football I learned that the third half is at least as important as the first and the second half. But where it is along the football field that the sharpness decreases in the third half over time, which often goes hand in hand with the glasses of beer that are knocked back, I have to say that the players here are unabated and to the point. I have three main issues: justice and everything around it, legal aid, the issue of digitalisation, and finally a number of questions that I could not bring under the three main themes. To begin with the case law. A number of Members challenged me with the question: where are we compared to nine months ago? The answer to that is actually a bit double. Of course, I can see that the problems have not been solved, but on the other hand I can see that we have a clearer picture of them now, regardless of the fact that we have done something in the previous budget to at least clean up own funds for this year. But we have also started to find a number of solutions together. In this sense, therefore, some progress has been made. For example, I have sent a number of letters on the funding system, in which I am quite positive and optimistic. With Peter van den Berg's research, for example, we have now realised that there are also negative aspects to the PxQ funding and that in the new funding system that should start in 2021, a little more differentiation, you want to see whether the fixed price components could not be taken out of the PxQ funding and you are moving towards a more stable funding. This is actually in line with what my colleague, Mr Grapperhaus, has just said. The D.A.'s office has had to make that kind of deal over the past year. As far as I am concerned, what we are going to do with justice is similar. The second important study is the review carried out by the Council for Justice, which became known a few weeks ago and which has also been sent to you. This makes it very clear where there is potential and what the nature and origin of the problem are. I would like to highlight the challenges facing justice. The case law has to do with an increasing number of cases, but also with a reduction in the total number of cases, so that the financial pressure on the organisation is simply very high. At the same time, this research also shows a number of possible improvements, which can lead to savings potential in business operations, and provides more guidance when it comes to the whole discussion about the matter's gravity. It has been claimed that things are becoming more complex and heavier, but this is now actually being validated in concrete terms up to the level you can say: that difference is in an amount mentioned in the report. I believe that's $10 million. It also makes it clear that the case-law will not be able to solve this financial problem on its own. Of course, I would have liked it to be different, but it's not. This means that we have to deal with this and that we are also taking concrete steps, together with the Justice Council, in the price negotiations that we have now started and which we will conclude with the 2020 budget, to see if we can resolve this financial problem as effectively as possible. Is that gonna work? I just can't anticipate that right now. You know the budget of justice. It's not like that's where the money goes against the skirts. It's not like I'm saying you're taking it away from another part of the Justice Department. If you also look at the rich, there are of course more themes and bottlenecks that require answers. Think about the climate, care and education, where there are also many bottlenecks. We will have to look at this in its entirety with the Minister of Finance. Mrs Van Bijsterveld asked: are we going to reverse the austerity or can the 50 million be made more structuralally? She took that in her motion, too. At the moment, I think it is too premature to give guarantees about this and make very definitive statements about it. Solving the financial problems of justice is, in my view, a top priority. You may call me on the budget to what extent that has been achieved. But I must discourage the motion as it has been tabled, because it is too far ahead of the budget debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u93	I have two questions for the Minister. One concerns the system of financing the case-law. Indeed, we have just proposed to do part of the lump sum and part of it on the basis of current business. In doing so, we have launched the idea of doing so on the basis of input, not on the basis of output. I have not yet heard the Minister, at least in such a way that it is realistic that sufficient time can be devoted to the matter. I'd like a response to that. The Minister is right that I spoke in my speech about reversing the cuts and making 50 million more structuralally. However, if the Minister had read the motion correctly, he would have seen that I did not mention that amount in the motion. I am talking about next year's budget. I would like to have the Minister's response on this point very precisely. Is he getting these things mixed up or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u94	The first is about the system. There are different variants. You could indeed think of an input system, but I am not in favour of that for two reasons. Then you've lost sync with the D.A., where you're also working on the basis of a part lumpsum and a part output cost. If you look at the judiciary, I also think it is important that there is an incentive for that judiciary not only to bring things in, but also to ensure that justice is spoken and that matters are done away with. I am thinking, for example, of the lead times and speeds, which really need to be improved for some things. I think it is important that there should be an incentive for this in the funding system too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u95	My group is also very much in favour of increasing the speed of transition times. However, we have also seen in the counter-lights that there are very few minutes per case. Then the flow rate may be a little higher, but then the care is a little less. I hope, however, that this balance will also be monitored and that, when work is carried out on the basis of output financing, a realistic assessment of the time needed for careful treatment will be made.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u96	That is a very valid point. In the new price agreements, we will have to look very closely at what real time estimates per category of business are. We really need to re-assess that, if only because the BCG report shows that the complexity of things has increased compared to what we are now taking into account in our funding system. It's really time to recalibrate. Yes, we will. Mrs Van Bijsterveld's motion calls on the government to resolve the financial problems currently facing the Council for Justice in the 2020 budget. That's exactly what I have in mind. I'd really like to get on with it. I believe that we should look critically at what the Council can do for justice, what we can do and what this means financially. But if you take into account in the motion that I should have done the same, then you are way ahead of the budget negotiations. Nor would I find that fair in the direction of other colleagues who also have problems that need to be resolved. So I have no choice but to say: hold the motion until the budget. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to dissuade it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u97	Mr. Chairman. Also on the financing system. It is good news that the Minister points out that the existing system is in fact no longer in line with reality and that he acknowledges that the next budget requires a different way of agreeing on the budgets for justice. I have also listened carefully to what Minister Grapperhaus said about the funding system at the Office, 50% fixed and 50% flexible, and I would just like to say a few words about the main points. I am very curious about that, because Mr Grapperhaus also said that this was based on looking closely at the past experience of justice. How is that the other way around? What is the assessment of the Secretary of State for Legal Protection of the System at the State's Attorney's Office? I thought Mrs Van Bijsterveld asked for it, too. Is that a solution that could be workable for justice? Then there's a second question. The Minister now focuses on the 2020 budget and the 20-'22 period. Much earlier, there's a spring note. Where the problems are so urgent, I can imagine that this Minister is also committed to finding solutions in advance of the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u98	I'll start with the systematics. I can imagine, but we are still at the beginning of the discussions on the new price negotiations, that we will come to the same sort of arrangement as my colleague at the D.A.'s office. If you look at the costs of the judiciary, the art is to make the best possible assessment of what costs are not well influenced, which costs are not directly related to the volume of cases, and which ones are. As you make that assessment as best you can, you've arranged the most stable funding possible. If the fixed part is too large and if there is a connection with the number of cases, you will see that if the number of cases increases and the fixed part does not grow, you will have problems again. The art in the discussions we are having with the Council of Justice is to make the best possible assessment of what is logically variable and what can grow with the increase or decrease in business, and what are the components that are actually separate from that. Whether it's fifty-fifty, 40-60 or 60-40, the other way around, don't pin me on that. My intention is to do it as sincerely and as honestly as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u99	I don't doubt that for a second. I would like to give the Minister perhaps a little more room for the professional's own responsibility, and not to push it into a system that gives quasi-business certainty and clarity, but it is going to get stuck in effect. We have examples in the care, but also here. You can also read it in BCG's report. I hope that the Minister will allow the idea of more margin in the restructuring process. That'll be more discretionary. Public administrations often like this less, but in practice it sometimes works very well. There is also an encouragement towards the two ministers. In this house, Mr Hoekstra, our colleague at the time, spoke on 3 June 2012: "Good justice is one of the most valuable things we have in the Netherlands. So valuable that that value can't be expressed in money. This does not mean that the costs of the case-law do not matter, but it does mean that the costs of the case-law are of secondary importance to quality. This is an important starting point." That is how Mr Hoekstra found at the time, and I hope now too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u100	Mr. Chairman. I would actually like to ask Mr Backer if he can give me a copy of that. Then I'll put it in my empty folder of budget preparation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u101	I would like to ask the Minister whether he would like to respond to the comprehensive criticism of the funding and, in particular, of the existing output financing. The group calls this one of the crucial problems facing the judiciary. Conversely, I have also pointed out that the judicial organisation is governed by the aforementioned stranglehold on the basis of a false, essentially quantitative starting point. They want to move towards a qualitative starting point. They have given a number of directions for resolving this problem. The first one, which I would like to tell you, advocates funding on the basis of professional standards. They have explained this in detail. I'm not going to repeat that, because you can read it. That is a fundamentally different approach, those professional standards. How do you feel about that? Do you want to take over or not? I like to hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u102	Let me begin by saying that I take the objections and concerns of the judges who have organised themselves under the umbrella of Counter-Light very seriously. I also feel, in part, where it comes from and why they point to the current funding system. For example, in the BCG report, I read that the funding of cases is actually a little too small, and then there is, of course, a huge pressure to do business in less time than what the judiciary is funded for. So I see it's pinching there. They propose to do this on a completely different basis, based on professional standards. However, I do not know whether that will work for two reasons. We have given extra money to the judiciary in recent years, even when it comes to professional standards, precisely to give some extra time and air to take things off. Nevertheless, despite the financial space provided, this has apparently had little effect on the experienced workload. I think we should talk about that part too. How exactly is that possible? That is all public money that we have earmarked for that purpose and which has apparently had insufficient effect. They propose this: give us the things, then we will determine the time we need to do so, and afterwards you will be told how expensive that has been. That is, of course, very complicated, because then you will not be able to estimate at all what the judiciary needs. Then it actually becomes a kind of open-ended financing, and I also see great financial risks for the entire Justice budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u103	I see Mr Ruers is trying to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u104	I will conclude, Mr President, before Mr Ruers probably interrupts me again. My preference is therefore to estimate very real at the front: what is the average time you need for a particular case? Then one time you need a little more time than the other time, but you can really windows better than we've done at the moment. However, I would like to stick to a system of financing which, at least for a significant part, is based on the number of cases received by the judiciary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u105	Mr. Ruers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u106	I thank the Minister for his answers. It's good that he says it shouldn't be an open-ended arrangement, and so does the Counter-Lighting Group. They don't think so either. They have said: where possible, we must, of course, have windows in advance. You'd be a fool if you didn't. However, they say that this estimate can be done well if you look at the professional standards, the quality of the case law and the knowledge of the case law. Make use of it, and don't hang it on a case, because that's a much too rough way of working. Working with professional standards guarantees that you have the best possible estimate. I would argue that more attention should be paid to this. I'd say, let's see from your professional standards how that estimate can be, because we can learn from that. Can the Minister take that with him when he consults with the judges?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u107	Let me promise you I'll take that with me. I don't want to step away from the professional standards either. That is what the judiciary has been working on for a few years now, and that is precisely what is meant to give a little more space to spend time on cases. There is a second point I would like to mention, and that is also where I am going to meet Mr Ruers. If we use a system of funding to fund the entire judiciary, this does not mean that it should also be translated into individual judges or into sectors within courts. I therefore believe that there should be much more room within the judiciary to say: 'Okay, so this is the money we get for it, we have to do it, but that does not mean that there are so many minutes or so much time for every exact moment'. I do hear from individual judges that sometimes they feel that they are becoming more and more of a production machine. I understand that: that affects your professional autonomy. You just want to do a case right, and if a case takes just a little more time, you want to be able to spend that time on it. As well as I know, a judge will also say that it should not take longer than strictly necessary. If it can be shorter, it can also be shorter. I think we should just leave room for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u108	Madam van Bijsterveld, finally on this point, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u109	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have to say that I am indeed intrigued by the debate so far, and I also feel that we are moving a step further together than nine months ago. I think that's a good thing. I have just listened very carefully to the Minister, and I think I have heard him say that the case law cannot at the moment save itself financially and that he would like to do otherwise, but he must acknowledge that it is. Let me come back to what I said in the debate and finally put it into that concept. I taste a little that the Minister sees it as a kind of obstacle, in his own work and in the discussions within the cabinet and also with the persons concerned of the justice system, but I would actually ask the Minister to see it as a push to achieve what he himself wants to achieve. At least I see this more and more, on the basis of the recognition he has just given, namely that the case law cannot be done on its own at the moment. I would ask the Minister to take that look at this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u110	I can experience it as a push in the back. At the same time, Mrs Van Bijsterveld can hardly expect me to give a positive opinion on this, also because that would not be fair to other areas of justice that sometimes have financial problems, and to other colleagues who have problems. Politics and governance is also making choices in scarcity. That's what we're gonna have to deal with when all these problems are on the table. Then we'll have to see what we can do. Then I do not think I can give a positive opinion at the moment on a motion that actually instructs the cabinet to resolve this issue, without taking into account the other challenges facing the cabinet. So I see the support in the back, I am grateful for that, I am going to try very hard and I hope to have convinced Mrs Van Bijsterveld of that, but that does not change my opinion on this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u111	I can well imagine that the Minister is not yet able to make concrete statements, but my group is also intrigued by his remark that justice alone cannot make it financially. What consequences does the Minister have in mind, which he would like to attach to that starting point? So I am not asking what he could do about it, but what he himself would like to do about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u112	In the coming weeks and months, I would like to see what justice itself can do together with the justice system. Where could we possibly find savings if we changed laws and regulations? A number of suggestions are made for this. I also think that we should look at what is going to be the estimated development of things. We work with some kind of prediction about the influx of things, which is sometimes not so bad and sometimes disappointing. It can give air from time to time, or not, in the price calls you make. We all have to get that together. I, too, ultimately want a case law that is stable and financially sound. But I am also real: if you, as a cabinet, have to deal with a lot of other financial questions too, sometimes you have to say that you have to solve it step by step. So I feel the encouragement of your Chamber and it is a top priority for me. But if you ask me to have it all resolved later on Princess Day, I think it is a step too far and not fair to colleagues either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u113	Mrs Duthler is still interrupting and then Mrs Strik, but then we go to the conclusion of the discussion on this point, otherwise we will not get any further. And time goes on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u114	One last, brief question on this point. Is the Minister prepared to turn the button on output financing, to see how the justice system will be able to survive financially?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u115	Yes, we are looking at the systematic and, of course, at the adequacy of the funding. But if only it were so easy that, if we turned a little bit on the system, it would help the judiciary. The system is actually a way in which we have said: with that the volume of money is growing along with, for example, the number of things. This will not make the euros any more or less, if we talk about 2020, for example. So imagine you have a budget for 2020. Then you can work with an inputsystematiek, with an outputsystematiek or with a lumpsumsystematiek, but the amount in front of it does not change. The question is how this will develop in the years to come. That is why we both have to do and are both important, but it is not that it provides immediate financial relief when you turn a button like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u116	I am pleased that the Minister acknowledges that it might give individual judges the feeling that they are being dealt with in the way they deal with business and that he says that this is by no means the intention. It would also be good to see where that feeling comes from. This may well have to do with the way in which the Council is steered and the role of the Court of Justice. I hope he brings that. Now a very specific question. The Minister always points out, to the 2020 budget. But I can imagine that the urgency is greater and that measures may need to be taken in the spring note as well. Does the Minister take this seriously and is he going to do his best to do so if necessary? If there's a solution, is he gonna fix anything?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u117	The Spring note is about the current year. Then, of course, we have to look again at what is in the basket to other things, which also have to be solved. But that's where this comes in, of course. In the previous budgets, at least for the current year, we have provided some relief in addition to the short-term reserves with 40 million policies. The big challenge is much more in how we make it structuralally financially healthy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u118	I suggest that the Minister continue his speech now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u119	When it comes to justice, I have now completed the financial section. Mr Ruers asked if it would help if you made a separate budget for justice. Why does this Minister not come this way with proposals for this? The constitutional argument is: because the House of Representatives recently agreed a proposal, by the way, by Mr Ruers' party, to settle this and there is nothing to bring to this side. At the time, I questioned the desirability of a separate budget for justice in my advice. With the budget right of the House of Representatives there can always be placed, even over budgets. That was actually the argument put forward by the Council of State, which said: a separate budget number is not going to solve the problem, which is actually more of a symbol law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u120	I understand the point and, of course, I knew that the other side of the budget was dealt with and this proposal was rejected by the majority of the Chamber. But I have also said this in the context of the larger whole, which the judiciary has also pointed out. The independence of the judiciary can only really come to its senses if there is a separate budget. Just as the Supreme Court and the Council of State have a separate budget and a separate position, we should also place the rest of the judiciary, the courts and the courts precisely in that context. At that point there is no money, but it is also about feeling: where are we and what is our position? I don't really see what objection there is to that. It is not for nothing a fundamental part of our democratic rule of law: the trias politicians and, of course, the independent judiciary. So let them be independent and give them their own budget. That's the point. We need to see it not only in money, but also in the position and as a kind of confirmation of the special function that the judiciary has within the triad.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u121	They certainly have that special position, also laid down in the Constitution, legislation and so on. But it is an illusion to think that if you gave the judiciary a separate budget number, as the Council of State and a number of other High Colleges of State have, it would be financially untouchable. In recent years, we have had to make substantial cuts. The Supreme Court has just had to deal with this and the Council of State has had to deal with this. So it's not like you're making them financially immune. I told you, of course, I'd like to have all the conversations about the BCG report. There are measures which, in my view, are feasible and desirable and which can also be quickly taken up. But there are also a number of more controversial suggestions and measures. One relates to housing. That's one of those themes. Mrs. Vlietstra asked: how do you deal with that? We have made a clear agreement on this in the government agreement, namely that existing courts and courts are not in principle closed. As far as I am concerned, this is still the case, so the closure of the courts is not, as far as I am concerned, the issue. I would almost say that the motion that she has tabled is superfluous. That's how I'm gonna dissuade it. Then something about Counter-Light. Mr Ruers, as well as others, quoted this and they said: it is bubbling within the judiciary. What exactly is going on and how do you assess the workload yourself? I have already indicated that I take this seriously and that it also has to do with the tight funding. We'd like to do something about that. For example, questions were also asked about the way in which the judiciary is governed. Then I have to say quite frankly that I really want to contradict the Council's image of justice if it is on the line of the Ministry. I know how it goes sometimes in big organizations. Then it is said: the drivers have been sung loose. It really isn't. I have very spicy discussions about finance and digitalisation, where justice really stands in front of the judges and the courts and also really stands up to him. But, of course, there is always a tension between what you as a judiciary, as an organisation, want to regulate widely, for example, take a theme such as digitisation, which I do not think you can arrange individually by court or by court, and how you make sure that there is enough room for individual judges to do their job simply in individual cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u122	I hear the Minister saying that he is having intrusive talks with judges and with judicial organisations. Fine, very nice. But then it's hard for me to explain the image I'm getting from the judges. I have also spoken to many of them and read all those pieces. They feel displaced and cornered. They have always thought: the Council of Justice is here for us. That's how it started once, as a buffer zone. It's in the pieces. Now they feel that they are becoming a production company: "The Council of Justice is not on our side, but against us. There's money shortage and the board's remote. We are a bit the forgotten corner of the judicial organisation." That's the image that you get very strongly from those surveys. It is widely felt and they feel, as it were, grieved. That's a statue. You have a different picture. Looking at these contrasts, I would like to ask you: go again into intensive conversation with the judiciary. If you see it that way and they see it very differently, then there must be something to discuss, I would say. My invitation, my request to you is: invite them and just discuss this openly with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u123	I'm gonna go on that invitation right now. I know that the new President-in-Office of the Council has taken this on board as something he wants to devote a lot of time and attention to in the coming period. Recently, in a debate on the other side, in response to an initiative by Mr Van Nispen and Mr Grothuizen of D66, who said 'we see that there is some kind of disconnect between the judges who are in practice and the directors', I promised that I would find that a very serious point, which I would like to dive into. I do not want to anticipate what the solutions are. Solutions are sometimes also too easy to think institutionally. If you were to appoint the directors along the line of elections, so to speak, the problem would be solved. I don't believe in that. I think something has to be done, and that starts with a good conversation. What does an individual judge need? Where exactly is his or her concern? How come he feels more and more like he's becoming a production machine, when he's actually chosen the profession for another reason? I admit that I will pay personal attention to this. Mr. Chairman. A few questions have been asked about governance, among others by Mrs Van Bijsterveld, who asked: should you not also look at governance once again, at the structure of the judicial organisation? Ideas on this are also laid down in motions by Mr Backer and others. and Mr. Ruers. I'm reluctant to do that. I would very much like to have this conversation, but recently the Kummeling Committee, which has carried out the review of the judicial card, strongly recommended: do not change the structure, because the organisation is still catching its breath from the previous one. Change of structure on structural change is not going to have the effect that we all aim for. This is not going to work out positively for the judicial organisation. When I see what challenge we all face, solving the financial problem, seeing if we can make a start on digitisation, and then I haven't even talked about the innovative forms of justice, I can see that the sign is already incredibly full. If a structural change is made, my experience shows that, in the coming years, a great deal of attention will be devoted to reorganisations and not to the improvement of the primary process. I'm a little hesitant there. That is also why I would at least like to discourage Mr Ruers' motion to fundamentally review the Law on the judicial organisation. I am also hesitant to go along with Mr Backer, who is asking for a whole vision, which I also read in that it should lead to a structural change.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u124	Mrs. Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u125	I believe that this is of a different order from, for example, the revision of the judicial card, which makes real physical changes to the entire infrastructure. The Minister has just indicated that he is going to look at the governance structure and the role of the Council for Justice, and that he is going to discuss it. If he finds out that this is an important factor that keeps that gap going and that is how this workload is perceived, is it not logical to be prepared to find solutions to it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u126	You should never argue like that with blinders. It may well be that with certain adjustments, including in the structure, we ensure that it works better. If both the Council for Justice and the people in the workplace agree on this, who would I be to say that I am against it? However, it should not be the idea to say now: we are going to take a very thorough look at whether we should go through with the Council of Justice, which we created with the law of 2002. When it comes to these minor adjustments, there is something in the pipeline that would address a number of concerns raised by both Mr Backer and Mr Ruers. I would like to mention the concern about the way in which the members of the Council are appointed to the Court of Justice and, in practice, my role in it, as well as the role in it. I believe that this procedure can gain in transparency. More can be done to support, also in a formal sense, through a more direct involvement of the judiciary in the appointment of the members of the council. If you look at the role of the minister, there will have to be one here and there. It's not that big at the moment, by the way. I have had two appointments recently and it is not that I have a huge finger in my mouth there. I actually want this role to be better defined and perhaps a little more limited on one part. I'm working on a bill to settle that. After it has been discussed in the House of Representatives, that will also be on your side.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u127	To make sense of each other, "I'm working on a bill to settle that." You said a lot of things at once. What's "that"?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u128	"That" is an amendment to Article 85 of the Law on the Judicial Organisation, which governs the appointment of the individual members of the Council for case-law purposes. There are three things I wanted to do. One. Increasing transparency, so actually a more detailed description of how that process is going, so that it is clear to you, it is clear to the courts and it is clear to me whether my successor is clear. Two. There, formally, a more direct involvement of the members of the judiciary. That's from the practice, you might say. Three. A limitation of the role of the political principal in this, of the Minister. Those are three parts that I'm trying to get into a bill right now. Mr. Chairman. Then some questions have been asked about the digitisation. That is also one of the subjects that I say: yes, the situation is really not dry, but there has been really good work done by the Council for Justice over the last nine months. Together, by the way, perhaps more than before, in consultation with the Presidents of the Court, in order to get together a picture of where we want to go. I said just before the summer that I feel that there is disagreement in the organization about where it should go. You may try to digitize, but then I know one thing for sure and that's that it's gonna fail. Big steps have really been taken to achieve better governance agreements and agreements on what we want to do together. It's cut more into bits and pieces. I think that, given KEI's size and scope, too big and too ambitious. You can see that it has gone well in a number of areas, but has failed in governance and civil. There is now a new plan, smaller, clearer, better. Is that enough to make the start, too? I think there is another test to be done, the so-called BIT test. We have also agreed on this. Where the judiciary was not previously covered by the BIT test regime, it has now voluntarily said: we are going to deal with that. I hope to be clear about this in the summer of this year. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Vlietstra asked at what time we are going to require that digital litigation. The final point on the horizon must be that justice is going to take that step over the full breadth. We have now said that we are going to do this first on a voluntary basis, with small steps. This will be done when digital litigation, also on the basis of experience, has proved successful. The starting point is that KEI legislation should provide for compulsory digitisation for professional parties at that time. Individual citizens will always have the opportunity to sue on paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u129	Mr. Secretary, I see another interruption by Mr. Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u130	It's a very short one. With one of your predecessors, Mr Van der Steur, we have had a fairly long debate here on whether he would ultimately be involved in the debate, and I do not like the word "involvement" to ensure that all the chain partners would be involved. It took some pushing and pulling, but he finally promised. May I assume that's still true here too?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u131	Yes, the legal profession must of course also be included and all other chain partners must be properly connected to it. Actually, I think it's a good example. Ferd Grapperhaus just said something about it. In the criminal justice chain there is also more and more development from the chain: so not along the vertical lines and looking at how to connect it together, but you see if you can think much more in processes. The Justice Council now intends to take the first step towards digitisation. This is much less ambitious than the original KEI programme, which also wanted to make the leap directly towards automation of processes, which ultimately had to be saved. I think that is an understandable choice. It is a pity that it all takes more time, but better something smaller and ultimately succeeds than something ambitious and stuck again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u132	Mrs. Duthler still?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u133	A very short question. Maybe I missed it. Can the Minister indicate when lawyers can permanently store their fax machines?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u134	I hope as soon as possible. That is why I welcome the fact that the Council has now said before the case-law: we are starting to digitize the whole chain before we start to automate further. The fact that digital means can sometimes make it difficult to communicate with the court, I really don't think of this time anymore. That is where the priority must be, as far as I am concerned, and that is where it is now. Mr. Chairman. Then there was Mr Backer's question when he could face the Law of Experimentation. It's in the Council of State right now. I'm hoping for advice soon. Then it goes to the other side and then it comes your way. It is an important legislative proposal, because it makes it more possible to do things within scope and within time that the Code of Civil Procedure does not allow at the moment with neighbourhood courts or for example divorce courts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u135	Mrs. Vlietstra, at this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u136	Still on digitization. I welcome the answer that individual citizens always have the opportunity, I say, to sue through paper. That seems important to me and also in line with the WRR advice Knowing is not yet done. I also asked about the costs. These have been calculated at 11 million for this basic plan, of which the Council says for the case-law that they can carry 3.4 million of them themselves. Can I explain that the Minister is prepared to put the remaining 7.6 million on the table?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u137	We need to have that conversation if the BIT test is positive. I see that the case law does not have those resources at the moment, but I do not have them one-two-three on the shelf either. This is typically such a subject that, for example, we need to cut the Spring Note.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u138	I hear the Minister say: this is a point for the Spring Note.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u139	Because it's for the running year. It can be done with the Spring Note and, if necessary, with the Autumn Note. We need to see how we do the timing right. Then it also depends on the available space. I have said this to the Court of Justice, also to reduce expectations: I am very pleased with the plan that is now in place; please continue with it, but it has not yet been financed. In the worst case scenario, it may also lead to a positive BIT and we all have to come to the conclusion that the resources to start in the short term are not available. I hope things work out differently, but I think I should be open and honest about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u140	Does it mean that at least this year there will be clarity? Spring or autumn I hear the Minister say. I can assume that, in view of the great importance of this subject, I would just like to point out the response that he has just given to Mrs Duthler that the Minister is committed to resolving this in the spring note or in the autumn note.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u141	I'm sure you can count on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u142	No one dares ask, but what is the BIT test?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u143	Yeah, that's a good question: what does the BIT key stand for? Let's see, does anyone know? It's just a little interrogation. Do you know? Administrative IT test?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u144	Yes, an agency that tests the effects of IT on feasibility, cost...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u145	I know exactly what it is, but what does it stand for? It's the test we've had since the Elias Commission to see if IT projects are solid enough, feasible and real. We have now had good experience of this in the departmental ICT projects, but the judiciary was not under that regime. We have said that KEI has become wise because of damage and shame. I'm gonna see what BIT stands for anyway. Mrs Vlietstra asked about the funding of socially effective...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u146	It stands for Bureau...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u147	I do not think it is necessary for this to be exchanged, in the context of speeding up the debate. You can google it all. The Minister continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u148	The roll-out of socially effective justice and how it is financed. It is at present at a level that it can be absorbed in its own budget. We're not ready for a big rollout yet, because it's all really still in the experimental phase. There's a community judge who's gonna start in Eindhoven. There's been a neighborhood judge in the north of the country. There is a family judge who does multi-problem cases in Rotterdam. That must run for a few years and then it must be evaluated to see if we can draw lessons from it. One of the lessons must be that by some other way of case law it will somehow get better and perhaps even more profitable in the long term. I can imagine, for example, that we are having discussions about the fact that sometimes it makes sense to spend a little more time in front of us on the first examination of a case in order to prevent them from coming two or three more times. Those are the ways we want to look at that. This does not necessarily result in an additional seizure of the finances.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u149	I would hope the minister was a little more ambitious. The way I'm listening to it now, it may take a few years before we start introducing this kind of innovation on a larger scale. You pointed out the neighborhood judge in the North of the Netherlands. That was almost another year ago. Everyone was so excited about that experiment. It would be a pity if we then had to wait a number of years before it was introduced into other courts as well. I would like to know what the Minister's ambition is. At what point does he think that civil justice, to use that word for a moment, should also be substantially applied, justice wide?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u150	I am not quite sure whether I have sent the letter from the Council of Justice on this matter to the Upper Chamber. In any case, I have recently sent it to the House of Representatives. I can tell Mrs Vlietstra that at the moment there are forms of social justice, of these experiments, of those pilots, in every region. Only, in one place that is in relation to criminal law, in another place it is in relation to family law and in another place it is in relation to debt. For example, each court has picked up one or two of these themes, giving you a whole palette of different species and learning from them. So it is not that we do it in one place in the Netherlands and then wait years before we do it in the rest of the Netherlands. As we speak everywhere in the Netherlands is being experimented with new forms of justice. Then there was the question about the absenteeism investigation. There's two things going on. At present, before the Court of Justice, the Council has to examine whether appeals to the courts and the number of judgments in absentia are developing differently from elsewhere in the districts where canton sites have been closed. So that's actually a very wide-ranging investigation. In addition, I asked the WODC to investigate the extent to which there is a relationship between travel distances to legal locations and the use of justice, specifically in the areas where the revision of the judicial card cancels canton locations, but where more attention is drawn to whether different developments can be seen in different groups of plaintiffs and defendants, in order to get a more layered picture. Both studies are scheduled to start this year and I expect that they will also be completed this year. Mrs Van Bijsterveld asked another question about the increased involvement of specialised lawyers as a judge-alternate. For example, a reason to employ such a specialised lawyer can be his specialised expertise in certain cases. That can therefore be such a specialised lawyer, provided that he does not practise his lawyer's practice in the same district as the one in which the case is dealt with. That rules out the law. That legal limitation is intended to prevent conflicts of interest. There is, therefore, a possibility of this, and this is also being used. Mr. Chairman. Then I wanted to make the bridge to legal aid. It is quite right that several questions have been asked about this. I'm sure you've also been following the discussion we've had across the street. There too I have said that I understand that there is a lot of emotion and there are a lot of concerns about this issue for two reasons. It is a fundamental pillar of our rule of law, so it is not a small thing. Legal aid is also intended for a target group which is particularly vulnerable because of its income and social position. Where these two things come together, we have irrevocably a lot of discussion and debate, and of course all of that in the light of a discussion that did not start yesterday, but has been going on for a very long time. We've got three, four thick reports showing problems. The social lawyer says, and rightly so, that we are concerned and the fees are below par. When I look at everything on the table, I must say that in this form our legal aid system is not sustainable towards the future. In this way, we cannot sustain this unless you decide to put a great deal of extra money into it. The cabinet has said that we do not do so, also for the reason that the Netherlands already spends a great deal of money on legal aid, more than 400 million a year. That beautiful book just showed by Minister Grapperhaus also shows how the Netherlands is doing internationally in the fields of legal aid and legal aid. We're pulling out two to three times as much per inhabitant as our neighbors south and east of us. In an international perspective, therefore, we are spending a substantial budget on legal aid. I just think we can and should do better for that money. That's what these contours are about. The starting point for this is that not only everyone must have access to the law, but there is also independent legal protection and high quality services. As far as I'm concerned, we're gonna work on a few things. The first is more accessible information and advice, not only for the target group who can now claim legal aid, but as far as I am concerned for everyone in the Netherlands, in order to respond to Mrs Van Bijsterveld's question. In addition, we need to look at what someone needs to get the really right help to solve their problems and not just their acute legal problem. Often there are also underlying problems that we need to be able to address. That requires a different way of assessing it. I call that triage. The idea is that the legal and social domain are taken much more together and that it is also considered which kind of help is the quickest way to find a solution. If you need a lawyer, you need a lawyer, but there are often other ways you can walk that can also lead to a good solution. In this way, we want to gain more control over costs and quality. Mr Backer used the term'self-help packages', but these are legal aid packages. They consist of a combination of advice, mediation and, if necessary, an attorney, if you need him. Then there is an integral price for an integral solution to your problem instead of the current system with points and flat-rate fees. We look at a different way of dealing with one's own contribution, of course with carrying capacity, with hardness clauses and pay-off arrangements, but a little more related to the heaviness of the help you receive. If we all do that, I think there's gonna be room for better compensation for the sector, for lawyers. Another important element is that I think that if we are to do this, we should also put our hands into our own minds and see what we, as a government, can do to reduce unnecessary judicialisation and unnecessary procedures. That means acting on a number of steps. I'll say something about that later. In the direction of Mr Backer, I might be able to correct a misunderstanding. He suggested that it looks like the Legal Loket is being dismantled. He said that first-line care is so valuable, isn't it? My reaction to that is full yes. The basis of these plans is a reinforcement of the first line. We're gonna need the Legal Loket for that. As far as I am concerned, we are not only strengthening the first line, but also broadening the first line. That is why I have often abandoned the idea of the Legal Loket in the discussions, because I think that in the case of that triage at the front, not only should we look at legal glasses, but also at what someone is in debt and whether someone has other problems at home or problems in the family sphere. The social domain also comes around the corner.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u151	I see a lot of people trying to create an interruption. First Mr Backer, then Mrs Van Bijsterveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u152	The Minister will explain again why he has come to these plans. We must make a contribution in this Chamber to the discussions that have taken place. I have focused it, including in the motion, particularly on the formal trajectory. That is why I have to say something about what you call triage and about different species. In the end, it is essential that you have the right to access legal aid. It shouldn't be income-related. As a young lawyer, I myself worked in the Office of Legal Aid. The characteristic feature of most legal aid questions is that the question of assistance needs to be formulated first. Most people don't know their own needs. There the Minister concludes that it is therefore not a legal question and that others should therefore look at it. That's an observation. I have two points I would like to make right away. Then we've only done it in one go. The Minister says that the whole system is going down. That's what my point of the formality was about. I just wrote down what he said: if you're going to make a structural change, everyone will be doing it in the next few years, and we already have so much on our plate. The same applies to this. If I wanted to find an intern in the social attorney's office, I wouldn't accept it, because this is a dying business if it goes on like this. I'm not gonna do professional training anymore, because everyone's reorganising. So I think the Minister is going down a road that is far more fundamental from what we are doing now than he himself is aware of.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u153	Let me start with that last one. What I propose is fundamental in a number of areas. And yes, that will also have an effect on social law. The social attorney's not gonna disappear, because we really need it. And there are also real jurisdictions where you can ask, with automatic grants and additions, for example in criminal law: do you have a lot of opportunities to do that in any other way? But there is the current system of flat-rate funding, the point system. Moreover, there are three reports which state that this also has disadvantages and that there are also perverse incentives, because litigation is rewarded more than finding a solution in an easily accessible way on the front. Then we need to see if we can organize that in another way. Look, my question is always: who are we doing this for? That's the question. Then the honest answer is: we do this for those who seek justice. And yes, then you need lawyers incredibly much and they do very important work on parts as well. But we're gonna do it eventually for the righteous. I can see that sometimes they can find a solution to a problem that is perhaps much more sustainable than the solution via the corridor to the judge. Let me compare it a little bit with the care. If you have a knee pain in your care, you don't go to the hospital specialist immediately. Then you also go to the general practitioner: a generalist who can think with you, who can give you an advice and who can refer you if you really need to. But he might also say: go first to the physiotherapist to see if you can get rid of that pain without surgery.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u154	So this is where things go wrong. The general practitioner is a professional. He's trained in health care. That's not what you call the triage in the front. I do not know at what level people are going to do that, but of course it must be cut back and it must not be done by lawyers. You are now creating an improper contradiction. Who are we doing this for? Yeah, we'll do it for the judge, of course. By saying that, you are already suggesting that those who criticize this would do it for someone else, as if they were doing it for a profession. No! No, Mr. Chairman, we don't do that when I speak for myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u155	That advice at the front has to be done by competent people. That must therefore be done by people who understand the law. I also said in the House of Representatives: I can also imagine you sticking a lawyer, for example, to the Legal Loket, or sticking to that triage function, to look into the complex cases and determine: do you have to make a case out of something? But then I'm going back to the current practice. I see that it is still far too often that the first line is skipped at all. In addition, people don't go to the Legal Loket anymore, but they immediately go to a lawyer to talk: how can I solve my problem? Yes, then there are legal glasses and then it is not so crazy that the solution is a legal one. You may then wonder if in all cases that is always the best solution. I don't believe it, and I want to get rid of that standing practice. I do not like the fact that there are law firms in the Netherlands that are actually recruiting people through acquisition. They say: you don't actually have to pass the Legal Loket, come to us immediately. That is simply not good and the Wolfsen report also says a few things about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u156	I see Mr. Ruers standing by the microphone, but Mrs. Van Bijsterveld was first. Or would you like to join us on this point, Mr Ruers? That is not the case. Mrs Van Bijsterveld will have the floor first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u157	I hear the Minister say the word "integral." He uses that word to refer to the nature of the problems, to legal and non-legal problems as a whole. Is the Minister saying that he also applies that concept "integrally" to the property positions of those seeking justice? Let me get this straight. Then I will also come to the point I raised. It would be a bit crooked if, on the one hand, we were dealing with a group of people who have easy access to legal aid through social lawyers, while, on the other hand, we were also dealing with people who are in a different category, who have a gatekeeper in the form of an insurance policy, or who do not even have access to it because they know that it is simply financially out of their reach, even if they are not completely under- or under-powerful.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u158	Exactly. This is a very good example of what Mrs Van Bijsterveld has to say. These people are gonna have to pay the full price of a lawyer's commercial hourly rate, and they're gonna say, "I'm not gonna do it." This is exactly "the fall of the middle groups." That's what committee chairman Van der Meer called it. That says: there is a very big gap between those who are in the legal aid system, and that is 40% of the Dutch people, and those who are just above it. And I believe that with the development of legal aid offices, an integral price for an integral problem, it will also be more attractive, for example, for those who are just above the Wrb border. They can say: hey, I know what I've lost and I know what solution I'll get. So I think that what we are doing now for subsidised legal aid can also provide relief for that group just above that border. At least that would be my drive.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u159	I was a little worried about the Minister's reaction to Mr. Backer's remark. I fully agreed with your comment, Mr. Backer. There is an image that I do not think corresponds to reality. Let me give the Minister an example. A few years ago, your predecessor once informed us of the situation regarding access to justice. Research had then shown that of all legal disputes that exist in the Netherlands, only 4% ultimately result in a dispute with the courts. The question then was, of course, what did they do with the other 96%? A lot of cases disappear because people don't see a chance to prosecute that legal procedure. So there's a really big gap. You're acting like it's coming up great and people are all walking to these lawyers. It's much worse: a lot of people don't get their rights, they don't get to that judge and they don't get to that lawyer. They just stay at home with it. Then we're lucky to have The Driving Judge et cetera. We're gonna have the Justice of the Peace now, too. I understand that this is being investigated in the Netherlands and Belgium. There's still a huge hole in legal aid that's not being filled up. Here's what I want to ask you. You're in favour of those alternatives. Me too. The more low-threshold you can fix it, the better. But a judge of peace, a district judge or whatever you call it costs money. If these people go to those judges and that organization later, will you be willing to finance that, too? Because there's a very large group in the Netherlands that just doesn't get anything right now. These people don't get anything because they just don't get over that threshold. That's something to think about. You call that small group that goes to court, but the group that doesn't go, sits at home and has had bad luck, is much bigger.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u160	Not everyone who doesn't go to court has had bad luck. Fortunately, a lot of legal problems are solved in the Netherlands without the use of a judge or a lawyer. And that is a good thing, because that is often a very sustainable solution to the problem. Mr Ruers asks me: do you realize that if you want to do something about strengthening that first line, and you want to make it more accessible, that also costs money? Yeah, I realize that very well. But I also think that an investment in a better first line, closer to people, will eventually pay back. That first line must be really closer to people, so as far as I am concerned there will be a consultation hour in libraries or at the town hall, or there will be a link with the social neighbourhood teams. Indeed, if you tackle a problem earlier, the solution is in my view also more advantageous. Then you avoid a lot of stress and a lot of human suffering. But in my view, it is also socially justifiable in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u161	I had the impression that the Minister made a bit of a caricature of the social lawyer. Those aren't people who recruit and see it through legal glasses. I know a lot of social attorneys who deal with problems in an integral way. They often refer to debt relief or you name it. And they are also very well connected to neighbourhood teams in community centers and so on, and so on. Only the difference is that there is no portal for it; so it goes much faster. If there are problems, they get caught much faster and they're with the right person. Can we not also have a little more confidence in the professionalism of the social lawyer, who is also focused on finding solutions and not just on making money with procedures?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u162	This is a good point from Mrs Strik. In the discussions we have, I am often critical of the system, but that does not mean that I criticise the individual actions of social lawyers. I have also met social lawyers who go through walls for their clients who are nowhere to go and who have only stood in front of closed doors. They ensure that these people are heard and that a solution is found to their problem. But then I am equally critical of the whole system; that is the other side of the story. A lawyer is an expensive paid specialist. If we think that the fee for lawyers should be increased, I think that..... we should also look at what work can be done by an expensive specialist and what light work can be done by others. I do not agree that referrals to, for example, a debt relief team or addiction care should be made through the lawyer. This must be done by strengthening the first line, where it can be much closer to people and more financially sustainable. That's a much better approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u163	However, I would like to comment on this. I do not mean that the lawyer then acts as a gatekeeper, but that there is a legal question, looking at how access to justice can be achieved and at the same time the lawyer is aware of the multi-problem that there is. But you don't have to pull it apart for that, so the gatekeeper does one thing first and then the access to the law still has to be realized. Because the fear is, of course, that that next step is hampered by the advice of the gatekeeper. I assume that the Minister will come back to that because I have also tabled a motion on this point. But of course, this is a big problem: if that is rejected, then we really have to deal with a violation of the principle of equality, because people with low incomes will not be able to achieve their rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u164	No, we're not gonna do that either. We're not blocking, and that's why I'm trying to avoid the word "gatekeeper." It's not like someone else is gonna decide for you whether or not to hire a lawyer or go to court. However, I believe that there can be much better advice on the front and that there can also be an incentive, including for those seeking justice, to first try, where possible, whether it can be done in a light way, in an amicable manner. For example, by checking mediation first before really making a case and dragging it to court. So: first try to solve a problem with advice. For example, someone sits next to you, picks up the phone and calls the benefit organisation because a mistake has been made with the benefit or because late payment has been made. That really doesn't have to be a lawyer, but that could also be someone with an HBO education who knows the subject and who knows the entrances to the Social Service. Someone who says we're just gonna make two phone calls to see if we can solve the problems that way. I can see lawyers doing that now, but those are the expensive specialists right away. I think that using HBO-educated people, paralegals, mediators and mediators, we can manage to do the light where the light can be. Then we leave the specialists where it must be difficult and where the hallway to the judge should really be made. In response to your motion: your own contribution will not be made dependent on the opinion. I've had that discussion across the street. We are actually doing what is requested in this motion. That would also make the motion superfluous. I think it's a standing practice to discourage the motion. So it is not the case that an advice for you determines whether you are going to pay a higher or lower contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u165	For the next interruption by Mr Ruers, I should like to look at the spokesmen on the side of the Chamber and the Minister. It is undoubtedly an important debate and there must also be room for a good debate, with interruptions, but at the same time I note that we are now running out of time. I would therefore call on the Members of Parliament to limit the number of interruptions or at least to make them extremely short and concise. I would also like to call on the Minister to remain brief and concise in his reply, otherwise I fear that we will still be here after midnight. Mr. Ruers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u166	I share your concerns, Mr. Chairman, and I will be brief. I am annoyed, if I may use that word, that the Minister is always talking about a "expensive specialist" of social law. I know who they are, and I know what those people deserve. We figured that out a few years ago, too. A social lawyer's salary is very limited; no large salaries are collected. It's just a specialist in his field, as well as others. I do hope, then, that if I am looking for justice, there will be a well-qualified lawyer who will help me, because it can often be about very big interests. So you should not use the term "expensive specialists." It's a specialist who gets paid fairly, but certainly not a fat salary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u167	I'll admit this immediately. Mr Ruers certainly has a point there, because at the moment there is no reasonable remuneration for the social lawyer. I also think that compensation should be increased. The point I wanted to make is that it is logical that a lawyer, even later in the new system, should be paid more than someone with an HBO education, a mediator or mediator. We will be able to differentiate a little more in the approach: when are you going to use heavier help with a lawyer who, as far as I am concerned, is going to make more money in the future, and when are you going to put in lighter help that might also be cheaper?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u168	Mrs. Vlietstra. I would once again urge both the Minister and the Members of Parliament to be brief in their questions and in their answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u169	I'll do my best, Mr. Chairman. I'm trying to imagine how things are going to be in practice. I hear the Minister say that the first step is an easy-to-access advice for everyone. The next step is to see what someone really needs. That could be a legal aid package, but it could be a lawyer. Who ultimately decides whether it's going to be one or the other? Next, the Minister says that the contribution someone has to pay is related to the heaviness of the support. Do I have to deduce that someone who chooses to go to a lawyer has to pay more than someone who chooses a legal aid package? I would find that extremely unfair. If anyone thinks he needs a lawyer, then that lawyer should be accessible, even if you have a low income? Then you can't say that the contribution depends on the services and the extent of what the lawyer is going to deliver? Then there is my final point. How does the Minister feel about the acute problem that we now have, namely that social lawyers receive too low a fee for what they do, and the Minister also thinks that they should solve this problem? This route will take years before you have implemented it in such a way that it will also yield a substantial amount.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u170	To begin with, I believe that if we succeed in bringing the number of cases that ultimately lead to a case before the courts with an added lawyer, which we can bring down, we will have an increase in them in the last 15 years. What I want to do is look at each jurisdiction to see if we can make such an overlap: whether we can move from the flat-rate system to a system of legal aid packages. What I see in front of me is that there are several legal aid packages for common problems: some lighter, others heavier. In the heavier will be the help of a lawyer, in a lighter perhaps not. Is it really strange, then, that the seeker in his choice, even in what he pays for his own contribution, will notice anything about it? Not in my eyes. Of course, you always have to take into account the capacity of people, but it is already happening in family matters and divorces. There we see that a few years ago a lower own contribution was introduced for when you follow a mediation process, and you have to pay a higher own contribution if you take on a lawyer. We can also see the immediate effect of this: this has led to a shift to slightly lighter forms of legal aid. I think that is a positive development in itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u171	Mr. Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u172	Finally, I would like to say a few words about this. I was just thinking about the comparison with the care. But I actually understand what's going on here: a doctor's assistant, for which you also need an HBO training these days, will decide which route the assistant will follow. So it also decides whether it is a legal question. If so, then the assistant questioner will go to what you call a "expensive specialist," but we have already taken that into account. I understand that this is the view. In this context, I would like to hear the Minister's opinion on the motion I tabled, because this is really a different route from why I am asking in that motion. This must simply be based on a legal basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u173	I can go straight to the counseling on that motion. I can leave the judgement to the Chamber, because a lot of what we are doing includes strengthening the first line and that routing can simply be done within the current legal frameworks. So we are going to do a number of things there. We have said, however, that we may want to deal with a number of issues which cannot be dealt with within the legal framework with legal aid packages in certain jurisdictions. We would then like to do so on the basis of the Experiment Law. By the way, we are just working with AMvBs and I always assume that we are going to do that kind of thing with the support of both Chambers. The final conclusion will be a formal legislative amendment. Then I will return to you, so that you may give your blessing on that. In the meantime, I have answered many questions in interruptions. So that's gonna save you a lot. Mrs Van Bijsterveld asked if there was anything we could do to remove the separation between social and commercial law. That is not something we have imposed, it is something that has grown so much in the sector. I myself am in favour of law firms spreading a little more, so that you are not 100% dependent on subsidised legal aid, but that you are also bringing in a part of it commercially. My letter says: I also want to sit down with the commercial agencies to see if there can be a little more solidarity in this sector, where the large agencies which are expensive and work at high rates can also say that they want to offer something to the social lawyer from their social responsibility. I am thinking, for example, of a fine example in Rotterdam, where Houthoff trains people. That's what I'm gonna do. Two further questions have been put by Mrs Strik, who are somewhat more in the area of Mr Harbers, but relate to legal aid. That is, first of all, a question on asylum matters. She asked about the impact assessment. In the coalition agreement we announced a number of measures. In accordance with the adopted Strike motion of 18 December, the consequences of these measures will be determined for both the case law and the IND. That research will be completed this spring. In any event, the request of the First Chamber has been met. This will then lead to an amendment of the Legal Assistance Decision. This amendment will also be consulted and put in place. Then there will also be the possibility for the legal profession to provide views on this. Then there is Mrs Strik's question about the asylum procedure and reception in Aruba and Curaçao, to which I have just received the answer. The protection of refugees is a matter of country. This means that the countries themselves are responsible for this, but the countries within the Kingdom are bound by the ECHR. The Netherlands has now provided support to both countries through mutual work visits. In the short term, the government is looking at how it can respond to requests for assistance recently made by the countries towards the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. Then I wanted to continue digitizing. Perhaps that could be a little shorter, because there are actually two main themes to distinguish. First of all, digitalisation is, of course, very broad. As with internationalisation, we have a coordinating director for international affairs, the Foreign Minister, but you can see that every colleague and every department is working on it. That's no different with digitalization. Nevertheless, Mrs Duthler said: thank you for the overview of all ongoing investigations, but I actually miss one thing, namely an exploration of or a vision of what she called beautiful "perception control," the phenomenon where information, the news that is being given to us is increasingly determined by algorithms and filters, and how we are being nudged in subtle ways. Furthermore, I call a phenomenon like micro targeting, aimed at behavioral influence and information filtering or manipulation, if you want to explain it negatively. You could say that's different from the traditional way of news garaging, or the traditional way in which producers of products try to approach you with ads. Because it's actually going much more subtle and it's much more focused on individuals. It can also affect fundamental values and freedoms. Think of the principle of equality, the principle of the free media, the sovereignty of the individual. I am prepared, because it insists on this, to identify the effects of such developments and to look at the opportunities, but above all at the risks they pose for specific values and individual freedoms. If you then identify risks, what should you possibly do in the future to mitigate them, so to see if you can do something about them in terms of rules or government supervision. Very briefly, I think that on Mrs Duthler's extensive speech, perhaps in essence, that is what I can do on offer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u174	I thank the Minister for this commitment, as I take it. Can the Minister also indicate that he is also involved in the international dimension, so not only is he looking at what is happening in the Netherlands or Europe, but also worldwide? Is he prepared to include the position of the digital platforms and quasi-monopolys, possibly in cooperation with other ministers? I see the Minister nodding.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u175	For the Acts: the answer is yes, because of course this is a phenomenon that does not end at the borders of the Netherlands and is inherently international.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u176	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u177	Then I would like to zoom in more specifically on a number of questions that have been asked about Artificial Intelligence (AI), focusing on justice. Mrs Baay asked how transparency would be secured in the future, if there were any comments on the basis of AI. I don't think we've got that far for a while. Apart from that, I do not think it would be desirable for public justice to make it fully dependent on computers and AI. One of the things we do now, for example with the experiments in Den Bosch, is to see how AI can support judges in their work and gain experience, to see what the odds and risks are and to learn from them. With regard to private dispute resolution, where AI is increasingly being used, we are looking at whether we can achieve certification at European level, to give more guidance on the quality of systems that are becoming increasingly available on the market. Mrs Baay also asked about the future financing of such developments. It is still so in its infancy that I do not suspect that this already has a huge impact on the budget of justice. That may be different in the future. Then we must take it back into the price negotiations. I do not think this is going to play a very important role in this round. Then a little bit wider. Ms Strik asked what is being done to facilitate new technologies and how to prevent, for example, errors in the way algorithms work or AI is being built up. For justice, we're working on living labs, as it's called. I gave a number of examples in the letter of 19 December. There too it is experimentally, step by step, trying things out, to see how you do it in a cautious way. We are also learning more and more about what we should, so to speak, legally guarantee. I come this spring with a letter to give a look at how I look at possible legal safeguards in the field of working with big data. Mrs Baay's question concerned transparency and testability of algorithms. The principle is that decision-making by an administrative body must always be subject to judicial review. Then it depends on whether someone goes to court to have a test done, but in principle any government decision must be able to pass that test, so there is basically one measure that we use. There's a lot of algorithms working in a lot of places. We're also working on some sort of inventory. Soon the challenge will be: if an algorithm is established, then it is up to the judge's knowledge and ability to understand it properly, to see if a decision based on algorithms has been made in a good way. What's much more exciting is when those algorithms start learning themselves, when certain forms of machine learning arise, which will also change that algorithm over time. Then we will have to come up with something that will always enable us to figure out how this could have happened in a government decision at the time. That's exciting for a while. Now you see that this kind of machine learning happens much less than the classic form of algorithms, with which, for example, the Tax Administration, the Social Services and other public administrations work. All in all I have a few varia, themes I couldn't accommodate in the three big blocks. That is, first of all, Mr Dercksen's question about the extension of certain rights for victims. The bill goes for advice to the Council of State this spring, so I hope to be able to send it to the House of Representatives later this year. Ms Strik asked about the use of delegation bases, in particular for the timely termination or implementation of EU directives. It is always my intention to do so in such a way that there is sufficient time to discuss it. As far as I am concerned, the primacy of the legislator remains a guideline. There can always be discussion about what you do in the formal legislation and what you delegate, also because there is sometimes a need to keep legislation agile and flexible. I think this will always be the subject of discussion in Parliament. If we have a legislative proposal, we can have the discussion about its desirability here too. Mr. Chairman. I think I have answered all the questions, but I deliberately say that a little slowly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u178	That seems to me, looking at the reactions of some colleagues, a bit premature, but we are going to hear it. Mrs. Vlietstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u179	I'm sorry, but one question I haven't answered. We have talked about the sharp decline in the number of cases. I asked the Minister if he had any insight into the causes. I have mentioned a number of possible causes. Maybe the Minister doesn't have that insight. Then I would like the undertaking that he will do more research, because I think it is important to have that insight, also in view of the new funding system.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u180	Sure. The decline in the number of cases varies a little from one jurisdiction to another, for example in civil and administrative matters. In civil matters, however, there is a feeling that it is partly due to greater payment morals and a attracting economy, which makes it less legal, but also to an incentive introduced a year ago, with the increase in registry fees, especially for small cases, which is reflected in collection. In order to offer some relief there, I have proposed to the House that the Registry fees for the lower category be reduced. If you're asking me where that fall in administrative law came from, I can bring it less home. We also see areas, such as government issues, where there is a significant increase. Perhaps I can say to Mrs Vlietstra that if we start talking about the new price negotiations and it is felt by the courts that we need to know more about them, we will find out where it comes from, because that may be relevant to the agreements we make.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u181	Can I come back briefly to the social attorney? In my term, I had expressed concerns about the possible disappearance of the offer. The Minister said between his nose and his lips: that is not going to happen, because we need it very much. However, so far nothing has happened with the recommendations of the Van der Meer Committee, which clearly indicated that there was serious delay in maintaining income. The goal is scale 12 of the government officials, but they are far from achieving that. I haven't heard anything yet about how this is being dealt with. Otherwise, I'm really afraid the offer's gonna go down a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u182	My ambition is also to bring that up to level. When I look at the numbers of active lawyers in social law, I do not immediately fear that it will lead to shortages. What I want to do is, by jurisdiction, along with law firms, see if we can make a change. For example, I would like to see whether I can bring together collective social agencies or other providers of legal aid packages that are wider than just the legal part in them. If we succeed, we can buy those legal aid packages more widely. This also has advantages for the lawyer; not only that you can come up with perhaps better funding for lawyers than is currently the case, but also to be more sure about the amount of work you get your way. And we can send a lot more to who the providers are with whom we like to engage. So that is more of a quality aspect.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u183	I would like to thank both directors for their detailed reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-eerstekamer-11.u184	I propose that we vote on the motions on 5 March, including the two motions previously tabled.
