ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-4.u1	We now turn to Mr Nijboer, on behalf of the PvdA, for his question about discrimination in the housing market. The question is addressed to the Secretary of State for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, who replaces the Minister. You're very welcome. Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-4.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. All who are in the Netherlands are treated equally. Discrimination on grounds of religion, belief in life, political orientation, race, gender or on any ground is not allowed. Mr President, this is Article 1 of our Constitution; you recognize it. This article is being violated, violated on a large scale. De Groene Amsterdammer, who has done a major research among rental agents, has already established this last March. 92% turned out to say yes to the following question: "I don't want a foreigner in my house that I rent; do you cooperate?" A gross disgrace, everyone, except the PVV and Forum for Democracy. Everyone else thought so. But nothing's been done about it. The cabinet was there and looked at it. Mr. Chairman. My question to the cabinet is: when are you finally going to take action? The Minister of the Interior, now represented by the Secretary of State, must be the guardian of our Constitution. And he doesn't. We have known for a long time that discrimination is taking place in the labour market. Internships are hard to find. You don't get hired so easily when you have a foreign surname. Whole action programmes have been designed to end this. It's very uncomfortable. It's hard to prove. Nothing happens in the housing market. Yesterday there was a broadcast of Radar. That's what the investigation did again. Again it appears that in 90% of cases 90%! A real estate agent cooperates in discrimination. We can't do this anymore. I want the cabinet to take action. Is it willing to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-4.u3	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have also seen the broadcast and I must say that I am also very uncomfortablely surprised by the high percentage of brokers involved. Article 1 of the Constitution, which Mr Nijboer read, stands as a house as far as we are concerned. So what is happening here is also unacceptable. Now it's not the first time this has been said. You referred to that yourself. A year ago, such a study was carried out by De Groene Amsterdammer, with similar results. At that time, the Minister of the Interior indicated that she was going to talk to the sector, to the trade associations. That conversation also took place in May of last year. At that time, the Minister called on these organisations to take the lead themselves and to appeal to their own members on this reprehensible and, moreover, criminal behaviour in their own right. Because there shouldn't be discrimination. That is also something we fully agree on. Especially if one year later you do a similar study with about the same results, you can at least see that nothing has improved and that the sector needs to do more to tackle this. It's possible. I believe that inter-branch organisations can, at least more actively, signal to their members that this is unacceptable. Not only that, they also have measures in their own organisation to visit and issue accreditations, which is part of a good membership of an industry organisation such as that of brokers. I therefore also believe that there is a need for a number of things to be done in this area. Is that enough? I don't know, but it's very important. Three weeks ago, a debate took place in the Chamber in which a large number of motions were tabled by the Chamber, all of which have also been given Chamber judgement and where there was a unanimous view that something must be done. The Minister also said that we accept our responsibility and take it up. Let me give you a few examples. First of all, there is now a study by Radboud University Nijmegen to see how you can deal with this in concrete terms. A contribution was also made to the municipality of Rotterdam of half a million euros to set up a pilot to experiment with all the measures that are conceivable and try to see how to create awareness in the sector itself, including those who are not aware of the problem at all, in order to tackle this problem. It is reckless, as Mr Nijboer rightly said, but that is precisely why we need to step up and take action now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-4.u5	I'm afraid putting a tooth in it isn't enough. This problem is so serious and so deep in our society that it requires more. NRC columnist Lamyae Aharouay also described this. She says, "In fact, everyone's against it, but the question is, what are you gonna do about it?" Then all I think is doing research, talking to the sector, saying you don't like it and making a call that it should be better, not enough. Those landlords should be ashamed of themselves that this is happening, but I also think that the government should take action against these crimes. The Secretary of State himself says it's a criminal offence. So perform and continue them. Is the Secretary of State prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-4.u6	In the rule of law as we know it, persecution can take place at the time of a concrete event, in which people report discrimination. In this case, I certainly don't want to trivialize it, and there's a phone call and a fake call to see how the other side reacts. That in itself is not a criminal offence. There will have to be more for that. The problem with discrimination is that people must always be prepared to report it. I turn it around; I think that the organisations to which these Members belong should also take up their responsibilities. They also have instruments for this. They can deploy mystery guests and visit their own members. Especially after a year ago we found that there was a problem and we now have to see that nothing has changed in the results, I believe that this sector should also take up its own responsibility. In the debate that took place three weeks ago, the Minister also discussed this very thoroughly and indicated her willingness to do things. It is precisely the combination of research into what works and how you can move that market and appeal to the industry organisation for this behavior, because they can deal with their members; they can evict them from their association, from their industry organisation, which is a serious punishment for a broker, but what has not happened so far. So there's a toolbox, but it has to be used.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-4.u7	It's not just yesterday's investigation. A study was published this morning which examined the number of reports of discrimination in all sectors in the Netherlands. Then you can see that with regard to house seekers, the number of cases has increased by 50%. So it's not just a little study of a TV show that shows that this is a problem. This is a broad social problem. As regards the choice of the cabinet to refer it back to the branches and sectors and to make an appeal to them to remove them from the industry when members are not doing well, I say: they are not going to do so. We've known this for a year and they haven't done anything. I believe that the government, the Minister of the Interior, should watch over our Constitution and act if this happens on such a large scale. So my question is once again: are you prepared to do so as a cabinet and not to put it in the real estate agencies that have their own interests? Otherwise, it will not work out and you are not sufficiently committed to monitoring the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-4.u8	The Minister and I are right in front of and behind the Constitution. There can be no misunderstanding about that. It is not just a question of investigating, because that is how you trivialize the matter. I have also indicated that we are now working on a whole set of instruments to see what works. And just because it's so uncomfortable, it's not easy. I therefore believe that much more can be done in the area of inter-branch organisations than is currently the case. To be honest, I wonder if a lot has happened in this area over the past year. So that really needs to be done more. Then there's the investigation you're referring to. I have also seen a significant increase in the number of reports. This may also partly be due to the willingness to report. Of course, it is always the case with these kinds of investigations that when there is publicity, people are more alert and more willing to report. But that once again supports that problem. We have Radar, we have De Groene Amsterdammer and we have this. So, as far as I am concerned, we do not have to discuss the seriousness of the problem. It should be mainly about how we do this. There lies a responsibility for the government, for the Minister of the Interior, but also very clearly for the industry organisations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-4.u9	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-4.u10	The seriousness of the problem is recognised, only the solution for people who are now looking for a home during the housing shortage in the Netherlands is no closer. That worries me. I really think the Secretary of State for the Interior should say here, "We don't accept this." He does, but he must also say: "We are taking action for this. We'll prosecute people, too. We all know that discrimination is taking place. And you will also see next year that those figures are better, and that people who have broken the law have been prosecuted." He shouldn't leave that with the trade associations. Is he willing to admit it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-4.u11	In fact, there was a debate three weeks ago, and Mr Nijboer was there too, and then the Chamber tabled a number of motions calling very strongly for action. They were filed three weeks ago. You can imagine that they have not all been implemented yet, but the actions have been set in motion. So I think we're pulling on the same side of the rope. On behalf of the Minister, I can also promise that the research currently being carried out by Radboud University will be shared with the Chamber as soon as possible after that research has been completed. That is likely to be in September of this year. And based on that, so by looking at what works and what doesn't, we can achieve results, together with the pilot that is now being carried out with the municipality of Rotterdam. This is also conditional on the municipality of Rotterdam sharing the results with other cities in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-4.u12	Thank you. And thank you, Mr. Nijboer. And it's Lamyae Aharouay, but... Then Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-4.u13	As in the debate a few weeks ago, I heard a lot of bullshit again. I'm not comfortable with that. We find it unacceptable and something must be done, but then nothing happens at all. So I think the people at home, who are already struggling to find a home in this housing market, who have a different last name than most Dutch people and who are excluded, are entitled to the fair story. And if I listen to the Secretary of State, the honest story is that the Minister has waited three months. So the minister felt it was so urgent that she waited three months before talking to the NVM. I ask this Secretary of State: does that express urgency?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-4.u14	I have just listed what the Minister has done on this issue in recent years, and that is indeed an absolute urgency. 'Cause the minister's been talking to the sector. The sector has promised to get better. We all now conclude that they have not succeeded. Well, then you shouldn't keep doing the same thing, because that would be insane. You're gonna have to do things differently. In that debate three weeks ago, which you also took part in, these discussions also took place. A number of motions have been tabled. I have just said that there have been investigations and discussions with the trade associations. So you can all call that a story, but I just call it that: action is now being taken on the basis of a common problem identified. And is that gonna solve it right away tomorrow, Mr. Azarkan? No, of course not! Because if it had been that easy, it would have been done by now. But please do not tell us that we are not playing down the seriousness of the problem at all. We are working hard on this, but this is a shared responsibility. This is a persistent problem, not only in the housing market. This Chamber has also often spoken about it: it is much wider. But we have to deal with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-4.u15	Second question, Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-4.u16	I am glad that the Secretary of State is beginning to raise his voice, because it is starting to get through a little bit that this is a serious problem...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-4.u17	Well, that was already clear!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-4.u18	That is not apparent from any results! So it is not so much interesting how the Secretary of State or the Minister speaks about this, but it is about: what results can people expect? Then I can only conclude that the approach described by the Secretary of State and the Minister has yielded nothing. People are sent away to almost the same extent or in almost the same number of cases. We have had the example of someone who sent an email 26 times in vain, while his lady, who speaks Dutch and has a Dutch surname, is invited twice if she does the same. This hurts like hell. And I...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-4.u19	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-4.u20	I ask the Secretary of State if he really wants to come forward with an action plan, as I asked for in a motion three weeks ago. By the way, the Minister did not recommend this motion. So when is this government really gonna do something?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-4.u21	Speaking of raising a voice, you're good at it, aren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-4.u22	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-4.u23	I'm repeating myself. Those motions have been adopted and are being carried out. At that time, three weeks ago, the Minister promised this, and I can now give him my word. The seriousness is perfectly clear, especially after last week's investigation that came out. Earlier efforts in this sector seem to have failed to deliver what everyone had hoped. Then you have to think of other things. Hence my appeal to the sector itself: you must do more than you have done so far. The government's gonna see what it can do. This won't be resolved tomorrow, but that doesn't mean we shouldn't do anything about it. In fact, we need to make more efforts and we are going to do so, I say in the direction of Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-4.u24	I was glued to the tube yesterday, but not in a positive way. It was extremely shocking to see how easily such a discriminatory request and how easily people are excluded from the housing market. Really shocking to see. My question is as follows. Apparently the brokers do not learn it, not by themselves, nor by all the commotion that has arisen. So I'm not really expecting them to learn anymore. How is the government going to pick up that glove, using the motions that have already been adopted in the Chamber? What about that mystery guest and those mystery calls? What about the obligation for brokers to report it if they receive such a discriminatory request?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-4.u25	These are justified questions from Mrs Van Eijs. I also note that it didn't work out. At least, that's the conclusion of this investigation, and I'm assuming that's representative. That means more needs to be done. I believe that the inter-branch organisations have a toolbox that they can use. That's what they're supposed to do now. I think the patience in hoping that things will be better by themselves is gone and that it will be widely felt. Measures must be taken in these organisations by those interbranch organisations themselves. I believe in that self-cleaning ability. It has to be done. The Minister will discuss this with them again. The mystery guest is an instrument that they could use themselves. If the government did, it would be surrounded by a number of safeguards. In fact, it can contribute to entrapment, so the weather is not allowed. But an industry organisation can simply visit its own members. That's no problem at all, but she'll have to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-4.u26	90% of brokers discriminate on order. We've known that for a year. Now the government says that these brokers need to make better arrangements to deal with that. Isn't that something like saying to car owners: do you agree to what to do when someone is driving through the red light? That would not be credible at all. So how is the government going to prevent us from standing here again next year and that in turn shows that 90% of the brokers discriminate on demand? 'Cause that can't go on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-4.u27	I agree with Mr Van Dijk on this point, but his comparison is somewhat flawed. In this case, there is an interbranch organisation. Companies are members of that. They comply with a number of rules that have been drawn up there. One of those rules is that of the Constitution; those rules apply to every Dutchman, that you should not discriminate and that people should not be discriminated against. If members do not comply with this, industry organisations are also saying that they do not allow this. They have a toolbox to deny these companies membership. That is quite a punishment, because that means that they will operate differently in that market. So I think that means can be used. So far this has not been used on this ground, but should it be done, an example will be given. Parallel to that, that is the responsibility that lies with the Ministry of the Interior.We facilitate a number of investigations, in Nijmegen, but also the pilot in Rotterdam. I hope that this will produce a number of tangible results, which we, as a government, can also use as instruments. In addition, of course, the case of a person reporting discrimination will be examined by the prosecution, but that is the criminal justice route.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-4.u28	Discrimination on the housing market is totally unacceptable. I think we're lucky enough to agree on that. However, the cabinet very much believes in self-regulation, as it is now clear. We had a debate on this three weeks ago, including with the Minister. A motion was adopted at that time which, we believe, really brings the solution closer and also prevents the problem. That motion was about making the selection process transparent, which is currently one big black box. If you make that selection process transparent, you will avoid discrimination. You also make sure you can make it hard when it happens. Especially after the broadcast of Radar last night, I would like to know from the Secretary of State whether this motion can be speeded up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-4.u29	That motion is being carried out. You are now asking me to speed up, but I do not know exactly what period the Minister has linked to it in this debate. But let me rephrase it, because I understand the question very well. The urgency of the problem has only increased with this publication. That debate took place before that. Now there is confirmation of what we knew a year ago and there is no progress. Are you therefore assured that the Minister of the Interior recognizes the seriousness of the problem and will act accordingly? I will also convey the message that the Chamber is keen to see speed at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-4.u30	Thank you.
