ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u1	The next item is the debate on the multilateral treaty to prevent base erosion and profit shifting. Just so you know. Let's get started.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u2	After welcoming the Secretary of State, I would like to be the first to give the floor to Mr Snels van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And that after we had a debate this morning on fiscal unity, even such a miracle of simplicity! Mr. Chairman. And now we have the debate on the multilateral treaty. Let me start with a very optimistic attitude. At these times, there are sometimes doubts as to whether we can cooperate internationally, but look at the G20, which has put tax avoidance and base erosion on the map, at the OECD's BEPS project and at this rather creative tool to ensure that we do not have to renegotiate all bilateral tax treaties, but that we can make adjustments at once to tackle tax avoidance and base erosion. That's also something to be optimistic about. We can still work with a lot of different countries. Makes me optimistic and cheerful. I have a second optimistic point. Yesterday afternoon, I went to the OECD website. There is a beautiful Excel file where you can see exactly when which countries have signed the treaty and what options they have ticked, with the data included. It also states what reservations they have made. And then you can even click on two countries, for example the Netherlands compared to Germany. You can see all those equations over there. I have often said to the Secretary of State and also to the Minister of Finance that it is always unclear in European directives which Member State options countries actually choose. I would advise the Secretary of State to go to the OECD website as well, because with much more information, it is really very clear. This is helpful not only for us, but also for the public and for scientists, because it makes clear which countries tick which options. In the end, this is important for effectiveness. If you look at the OECD stock, you can see that 19 countries have already entered into force, that 57 countries, including the Netherlands, are about to sign the "provisional"............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The question is, how does that relate to all those countries that are not yet participating? What does the Secretary of State expect from that? In the end, of course, it is the intention that as many countries as possible should participate, because then it will become really effective. I do have a question about that. When it comes to the European approach and our national approach to tax avoidance, we often look at the minimum standards developed in the BEPS project. We use them, for example, when making the black or grey lists in Europe or in the Netherlands. My question to the Secretary of State is: if countries are not yet involved or are not yet fully involved, can this be relevant to other policy areas, for example in the black or grey lists that we draw up in the Netherlands and in Europe? Does it therefore have consequences for countries that are not participating? Countries that do not participate may be tax havens, for example. But it could also be that I am a little more concerned about the fact that a lot of developing countries are not yet participating. How does the Secretary of State judge that, anyway? Does that mean that this project does not take sufficient account of the interests of developing countries? Many civil society organisations are also concerned about this. Or does this actually mean something about the administrative capacity in those countries or the capacity of tax administrations to actually introduce this? Is the Secretary of State prepared to really look at that and perhaps provide support? You can also see in that file that there are countries that have made reservations. Ultimately, this instrument is only really effective in tackling tax avoidance when as many countries as possible are fully involved and in the systematic all these boxes are also green. So if the Member State options are the same, the reserved road and the boxes are green. Only then will this treaty be effective, otherwise the old tax treaties will remain in force. That means it should be a dynamic process. The Secretary of State has made choices and made the boxes red or green and even a number of reservations. But in the end, it only works when all countries participate and all boxes are coloured green. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that today this debate does not end, not only in the Netherlands, but that we must ensure internationally that the fine OECD stock is ultimately one beautiful green area? Then I have some more specific questions about anti-abuse. We always had anti-abuse provisions in our own tax treaties. I never knew exactly how effective they actually are. It's hard for me as a Member of Parliament to understand that. But we now choose the option of the "principal purpose" test. It actually works in such a way that tax avoidance should not be the main objective for taxpayers. This is tested with the "principle purpose" test. It's got to be a sideline. How does that actually work in practice? How can the IRS control that? I take it that a company that wants to do tax avoidance is not going to say to our Tax Administration: my main objective is tax avoidance. I'm sure they'll say something else. So how can the Tax Administration ultimately maintain with the PPT, in jargon, that companies do not abuse this instrument? My impression is that other countries, with the exception of PPT, are going further with this restriction on benefits clause, which further controls the purpose of companies in obtaining the benefits of tax treaties. Companies will actually be given a little less room to do tax avoidance. Can the Secretary of State say anything about that? Finally. The Secretary of State expects the budgetary consequences to be zero. I understand that it is difficult to calculate and estimate budgetary consequences of this, but at the same time it is true that this whole process is ultimately meant to ensure that, according to the OECD, we go somewhere between 100 and 300 billion additional tax revenues. They should therefore end up in developing countries in particular. How then is it that the revenue in the Netherlands is zero, whereas the revenue worldwide should eventually be much larger and really in the hundreds of billions? Wouldn't it be an idea to indicate in the OECD's wonderful summary table how countries actually make their own estimates, so that we also get a bit more an idea of the effectiveness of the instrument? Then you finally see if it actually leads to additional tax revenues. I think this is particularly important for the developing countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u4	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Nijboer of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u5	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. In itself, it is a good bill that is before us, as far as the PvdA Group is concerned. The CPB recently had some serious criticism of the cabinet when they said: the cabinet does something about tax avoidance, but it doesn't really make sense. This criticism is also shared by the PvdA Group, but the PvdA Group must also note that this interpretation of the approach to tax avoidance has taken the most far-reaching form. To that end, I would also like to congratulate the Secretary of State. You can't comment on that. So I have only a limited number of questions. I agree with Mr Snels's questions regarding developing countries. I would like to draw attention to two specific countries, Brazil and America. 'Cause in Brazil, there's... Well, I'm not a diplomat, so I won't give it a qualification, but there's Bolsonaro, and that's a pretty typical figure who doesn't care about the world order or the rule of law. The question is, however, because Brazil is a fairly important trading partner of the Netherlands, also an agricultural exporter and importer, what that will mean for the tax treaties and also for the drafting of tax avoidance. The same question actually applies to Trump. That's about the big money. The impact on Brazil and on people's lives there may be greater, but America, of course, is about the big money, where in CV-e.g. hundreds of billions are actually hanging over the oceans and Trump is trying to get them back. This legislation can also have an impact on this. The question to the Secretary of State is: what exactly is that about? How's America coming along? Does it matter at all? Is there any insight into this and what does the Secretary of State do about it? Mr. Chairman. Finally, I come to the end of my speech. The fight against tax avoidance must be pursued on many fronts. This is one front and I believe that the cabinet is taking good steps here. You can do that with a withholding tax. We have had a huge discussion about what percentage to apply. The Chamber has raised it from seven to nine, but that does not really go far enough and does not bite it hard enough. In fact, other measures are necessary and desirable. We will discuss this later this month in a separate debate, so I will keep my further remarks for that debate, but I do think that the Secretary of State should go further in this than he himself intends to do now. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u6	Thank you. I call Mrs Lodders of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u7	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to say to Mr Snels that he is pleased to see cooperation in the OECD field. I hope that we will be able to find this joy on a number of other dossiers too, and I would like to mention, for example, the digitals, because I think that is also a very good example to discuss and establish in the OECD context. But let's move on to the order of the day. Today we are discussing the multilateral agreement, as pointed out by my fellow Members, the second reasonably technical dossier today. I'm gonna try to make it understandable to everyone. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is a beautiful country, a country that is open to people and businesses who want to make a contribution to our economy. We are a country known outside our borders for our freedom, a country where everyone can be who he or she is, the country of cheese and tulips and unfortunately also the country of tax avoidance. That last one's too bad. Too often we hear stories from companies, agencies or people who use the Netherlands with constructions or letterbox companies to avoid the tax. That is unfair and it undermines tax morals. Today the House of Representatives is discussing an important new treaty, the so-called multilateral instrument to tackle tax evasion and tax avoidance. Over a hundred countries are working together on this. I've added a number of numbers together, I'll tell the Secretary of State. Over a hundred countries work together and make arrangements to make life difficult for tax evaders and tax evaders. Tax avoidance is not something that takes place only within national borders, and you can only tackle the problem if you leave your hands together and take steps with other countries. The present treaty is an important step which my group welcomes. Like many other countries, the Netherlands has tax treaties with different countries. These conventions have made agreements on taxation. For example, which country is allowed to levy taxes and in what way? You want to prevent any country from levying taxes and at the same time you want to prevent someone from paying double taxes. And in the OECD context, measures have now been proposed to tackle this tax avoidance and improve dispute resolution under the tax treaties. With the present Treaty, these measures will be implemented at once in all the treaties. I understand that more than a hundred countries are now participating, but can the Secretary of State give an overview of the latest state of affairs? Mr. Chairman. The treaty works in such a way that, as a country, you have to check the measures that you want to apply. If the country with which you have signed a treaty has set the same ticks, then the measure is valid. The Netherlands has chosen to turn on as many ticks as possible. That is an ambitious approach and I would ask the Secretary of State to reflect on this point. The Netherlands has turned on all the ticks with a number of countries, but at the same time we also see countries that have turned on fewer ticks or even chosen the minimum variant. And we see countries that aren't participating. How does the Secretary of State view this? I am actually asking that in addition to what the previous speakers have said. What else are the opportunities to move countries to take that step? Are there countries that are seen as high risk because they have taken the minimum step? What does that mean and what is the Secretary of State's ambition on this point? Mr. Chairman. As has already been said, my group supports the ambitious approach and I shall come back to one point in a moment. The measures we are taking must, of course, be effective. Can the Secretary of State indicate how the measures are being monitored and how the Court will be informed? On one point, my group has a concern about the present treaty. We are talking about Article 12, because this article lowers the threshold of the permanent establishment. This means that a company that does business in a country is very soon liable to tax. This article has been included, while discussions are still taking place on the concept of permanent establishment, profit allocation and arbitration. The latter is not yet sufficiently regulated. Mr. Chairman. Together with Mr Slootweg, I have tabled an amendment to postpone this article for the time being, for the duration of the negotiations. For my group this is important, because the treaty is so structured that once the treaty has been implemented, so once we have voted on it, you will no longer be able to uncheck it. Incite, but if it turns out that the outcome of these negotiations is not the desired result, you can never turn off the check mark again. That is a risk which my group regards as too great on this particular point. So, as far as I'm concerned, it's a temporary break-up. We do that with the objective of encouraging it in the long term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u8	Before you go any further, Mr Snels has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u9	I am trying to understand the amendment, and perhaps Mrs Lodders can argue a little more as to why she is actually tabling this amendment. If I understand correctly, this permanent establishment combined with the arbitration was precisely a hand-off to the developing countries not to put pressure on them to reach that binding arbitration. It is precisely these developing countries that suffer from this. By setting this check mark, let me put it this way: we are actually acting against the spirit of OECD policy, namely to colour as many boxes as possible green and at the same time to take into account the opportunities of developing countries to participate. I would like an answer to that and perhaps the Secretary of State will be able to respond to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u10	I assume that the Secretary of State will respond to the amendment in any case. I understand there are still conversations going on. The biggest problem I have with this point is that you can't go back once you've turned on a check mark. As far as I am concerned, I have tried to include in the explanatory statement that it is really a temporary expansion. There's even a moment in it. Let me take a look at the amendment: to put forward a legislative proposal by the end of 2020 to put it back on, to lift the reservation. I would like to point out that it really is a temporary measure. But from the technical briefing, we really understood that detachment is impossible. So at this point this action. Mr. Chairman. Another point I would like to raise is the United States Model Convention. I would like to refer to Rule 11. The United States and Eritrea are the only countries to tax citizenship. There are Dutch residents who are affected by this, Dutch people who live here all their lives, but who are at risk of double taxation because of an American tax reform. If these people do not have the right papers, the so-called Social Security Number, they also have limited access to financial services. It's gonna happen to you. It makes it almost impossible for you to request the right documents. Then you can no longer open a bank account or, worse, your existing account will be blocked or cancelled. I understand very well that these people are very concerned. I can also see that in my mailbox, in which mails really arrive almost daily. Mr. Chairman. I have asked questions on this issue several times, as have a number of other colleagues. The Finance Committee sent a letter to the US Congress, in which it raised this undesirable situation and asked for a solution. Soon the American ambassador will be coming along, but so far there has been no result. I know that the Secretary of State also takes this situation seriously, and I would, of course, ask him to continue to do everything possible to help these people. But there might be another step we can take. It has come to my attention that the German authorities have indicated that the German accounts do not need to be cancelled in connection with FATCA, that part I have just spoken about. Is the Secretary of State familiar with this? If so, can he go into that? I am considering a motion on this point in the second term. Back to the treaty, President. I started my speech with the Netherlands as a beautiful country, a country that is open to every company and to every person who contributes to our economy. If you work with your company for jobs and a contribution to the economy, or if you come to work here, you are welcome and we prefer to roll out the red carpet in front of you. But if you come here to take advantage, we'll show you the door. The present Convention represents an important step in the approach and prevention of tax evasion and avoidance. We will also try to prevent tax avoidance in the case of new laws or the amendment of laws. But it's still gonna be the case that smart guys or girls look up the loopholes in the law. I would like to say to them: contribute to our society. Don't take advantage of the trust you have. If you do, we don't want you here. We owe it to this beautiful country. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u11	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Tony van Dijck of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u12	Thank you, Mr President. We are discussing today the Convention aimed at preventing abuse of tax treaties and improving dispute resolution. With this treaty, all the tax treaties that the Netherlands has with other countries are aligned with the anti-abuse provisions of the BEPS project, subject to the agreement of all these treaty partners. So it prevents many bilateral negotiations, and that is only profit. Countries have a choice to bring their tax treaties under this Convention. They can then choose from 15 different BEPS proposals, the action points. Why are the action points optional, I ask this Secretary of State. What does this treaty do if I ratify it and then make a reservation on all the points of action? Well, I guess I don't really have anything. Of the 82 treaty countries in the Netherlands, only half of them have ratified. Why so little, I ask the Secretary of State. Another striking feature is the reluctance to adopt action points by the other Contracting Parties. How can you explain this? Which Dutch treaty countries still have to ratify and what will the Netherlands do with a treaty country that refuses to ratify the multilateral treaty? So we're gonna cancel the treaty? What is the Netherlands going to do with a treaty country that makes a reservation on almost all action points? And why have only three action points been declared a minimum standard, I ask this Secretary of State. And is every country obliged to take over this minimum standard? 'Cause I see stars all over the place. Will the Netherlands negotiate with treaty countries to get more action points through? Are we not negotiating bilaterally with these treaty countries? This convention only refers to treaty abuse to avoid tax. But we also have proposals and action points from the BEPS project that see other things. Does the OECD still have any proposals in this respect? And if so, when? Mr. Chairman. This OECD Convention was already signed on 24 November 2016. Why did it take more than two years to deal with it here? What's the reason? And what's that like in other countries? This treaty makes it more difficult to abuse the Netherlands as a transit country through empty letterbox companies. So they're going to disappear eventually, the Secretary of State says. But how much is the tax revenue loss? What does he expect? At the same time, the Secretary of State expects more tax revenues because companies are going to bring their structures more into line with economic reality, I read. How much extra income tax and income tax does this Secretary of State expect? Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to say that most of the tax treaties to prevent double taxation have been concluded on behalf of the Kingdom of the Netherlands. But does this not automatically cover all four countries of the Kingdom? Curaçao also participates in this treaty, with a collusion. But only two tax treaties are included, namely with Malta and Norway. Are these the only two? Has Curaçao not made any other treaties to prevent double taxation? And how is the treaty between the Netherlands and Curaçao, the BRNC, formerly known as the BRK? Is this also covered by the Treaty now? I don't read anything about that. Or is this being treated separately? Finally, Mr President, the question of why Saint Martin is not participating. Sint-Maarten apparently has only one treaty, signed with Norway on behalf of the Netherlands Antilles. What does it mean for now and in the future if Saint Martin and Aruba are not involved? All the way to the end, if you can, Mr. Chairman. I see from you that it's not really possible, but this time. What about Article 11, that saving clause? Everyone excludes that point of action. I see "no" everywhere. Does that make this article superfluous and why not delete it altogether? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u13	There is a question for you, Mr. Van Dijck, from Mr. Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u14	In fact, I would like to congratulate Mr Van Dijck on his story. For if I have understood him correctly, he actually thinks that this treaty should not have allowed countries to have all kinds of choices and options in these OECD proposals, so that it would have been the same for all countries. I got that right, didn't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u15	Well, I'm sorry if there's too many choices. I can imagine anything that there are some underlying optional options. But my main question was, for example, about those minimum standards. That's only three. Are they at least mandatory? Because if a country ratifies and then makes a reservation on everything, then that ratification is not worth anything either. So I was wondering if it's just those three minimum standards. Why aren't there more minimum standards? And do you not in this way encourage bilateral negotiations with individual countries on these action points after all? That is precisely what we wanted to avoid with this multilateral treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u16	I'm very happy with this story, so the compliments were in order. I usually hear a slightly different story from the PVV. We had a debate earlier, I think, less than two weeks ago at the Ecofin/eurogroup on giving up the right of veto for tax policy in European countries. In fact, Mr Van Dijck says that countries should not have all those powers to make their own choices, but should organise much more of our powers internationally so that we can better achieve good fiscal policy and tackle tax avoidance properly. So compliments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u17	A compliment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u18	Well, I'll taste some apples and pears being brought in right now. Because the right of veto remains sacred. This is about the European Union; it is about the OECD. We have always said: if you want to tackle tax avoidance, you should not do so as Europe, but internationally in the OECD context. This is a first step in this direction. So in that respect, this is a welcome treaty and I will also advise my group to vote in favour of this multilateral treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u19	Of course, this is stimulant. So I understand now that if Europe does so, where we are simply volunteering to be a member of his party, Mr Van Dijck says: that is a shameful attack on Dutch sovereignty; that is what we are going to try to eradicate with skin and hair. But if the OECD does that, it is good, because there are countries from South America and from Asia too, he says: that is such an international company, I am in favour of it. Sometimes I can hardly stand up to such a PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u20	Here is actually a bit of harmony, Mr. Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u21	It is not for nothing that we want to leave the European Union. The European Union does indeed want to take away our sovereignty. This is something we're taking together internationally. You should not want tax avoidance and tax evasion, and we have always said: it can only be tackled internationally. In the OECD context, we embraced it. We have therefore embraced the BEPS of the OECD, but we reject the BEPS of ATAD. It's hard to understand, and it takes some thinking.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u22	No, I think it's pretty clear. If international cooperation with more countries happens than with only European countries, Mr Van Dijck of the PVV thinks it is very sensible that you do not get too much freedom of choice. That sounds like music to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u23	The European Union has an agenda. That's probably the same as D66's. And if it's up to the European Union, we're going to get blue envelopes with a lot of stars.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u24	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijck. I call Mr Slootweg of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since Hugo de Groot, our country has played a major role in shaping international public law. As a small, open economy, we benefit greatly from clear rules of play that are followed by all countries, especially by the big players. In this context, treaties to which as many countries as possible adhere are preferable to bilateral treaties. In the time of Hugo de Groot it was the law of the sea that needed attention, nowadays it is important that clear agreements are made on tax law. From water flows to capital flows. Mr. Chairman. We have not often dealt with such an efficient tax law as this in this Chamber. Several times a year, the House of Representatives approves bilateral tax treaties, and this has been preceded by a process of negotiation for many years, sometimes for many decades. This law amends several articles in all tax treaties between many dozen countries at once, with the aim of combating tax avoidance. One of the forms of tax avoidance effectively addressed by this Convention, for example, is "hybrid mismatches." I can't help it either; it's just a technical word, but we have to use it. This means that two countries assess certain situations differently, which means that income in both countries is not taxed or costs are deductible in two countries. This kind of construction is effectively dealt with by this law. That is a huge step forward with many countries at the same time. But the Netherlands is taking the biggest step, because we have ticked everything in terms of content and not made reservations. In my opinion, the few comments made by the Netherlands are all technical in nature. We are going further than the other countries, and that calls for further reflection. This is all the more true now that countries can choose which articles of the Convention they want to apply and a country can never return once an article has been ticked. Mr. Chairman. I would therefore like to focus on the article that I think is going to cause most of the problems, namely Article 12. That article regulates that a company previously has a permanent establishment similar to a branch. A good article, because that means that profits will be taxed in the country where they were made. That's actually exactly the purpose of this whole project. The question then is how much profit that permanent establishment has made. That question is, of course, essential, but there is still no answer to it. The OECD is working on these accounting rules, but it has not yet come to an end. Suppose an international company sells goods all over the world and the head office is in the Netherlands. Then all countries where goods have been sold will be allowed to levy additional taxes, and not so much profit should officially be allocated to that permanent establishment at the moment. But you can try as a country anyway. That is the idea behind Article 12. And this can be guessed: a large number of countries will make a full effort and impose too high an attack. This company will then be allowed to conduct legal procedures in all these countries to avoid double taxation. Sometimes it is possible for the two countries to consult, with an obligation to reach a solution, but not all tax treaties have this option of arbitration. I therefore consider it undesirable to check this option already. We should wait until the OECD gets out of this with regard to the rules on the allocation of profits. This is particularly true of those countries which do not have arbitration in the Tax Convention. My question to the Secretary of State is therefore why he considers it important to check Article 12 already. Wouldn't it be better to hold off on that for a while? Does he share the view that tackling tax avoidance I define that if "pay less tax than you actually owe" should not go so far as to require companies to pay double taxation on the same profit? Many countries have not yet checked this article. Does the Netherlands now make a sensible choice? Why is it important to check the article already, when it is clear from the implementation consequences for the Tax Administration that there will be more discussions at permanent establishments about the allocation of profits and that this will therefore cost extra capacity? In addition to my concerns about Article 12, I have concerns about Article 4. This Article provides that entities with a dual residence do not have access to the Convention until the two countries concerned have decided in which country the entity is established. The Secretary of State states that experience now shows that the Netherlands can generally find a solution quickly with the other country. My question is: is that experience strong enough? Because once the check mark is placed here, we can't go back. Another concern is the position of Curaçao, Aruba and Saint Martin. The Secretary of State has written that the Netherlands has no influence on the position of other countries in our Kingdom. Curaçao has only chosen the minimum standards, because of a limited capacity. Let me now express the hope that Curaçao will extend the passage of the multilateral treaty in the future. The good news is that these countries, with all their tax treaties, are participating in the multilateral treaty. The bad news is that all their tax treaties together can be counted on one hand, and then you still have fingers left. Curaçao has two treaties and Aruba has no one. There are, of course, Tax Information Exchange Agreements that are a kind of mini-treaties on information exchange...................................................................................................................................................................................... But the rules on information exchange in these agreements are not certain state of the art. Can the Secretary of State state state what the lack or lack of tax treaties, and so not or hardly participate in a multilateral treaty, means for tax avoidance via those islands? Finally, I would like to thank the Secretary of State and his colleague for the written commitment that the current and the new treaties will indicate the articles in which the multilateral treaty is working. This seems very helpful for the clarity. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u26	Thank you. I call Mr Van Weyenberg, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's a special day. It is a special day, because today we can take another big step forward in tackling tax avoidance and constructions, especially in order not to have to pay taxes. You might not think it if you looked at the atmosphere in this house. I have experienced more exciting debates, with a public gallery that might have been separate from the technique in greater rapture... but something really big is happening here. Something big is happening here. Mr Snels was right to start with that. In fact, we have managed to agree internationally with a large group of countries in the OECD's BEPS project, and I would like to say to the gourmets that they will finally agree to put a real limit on a whole battery of fiscal structures whose sole aim is to pay as little tax as possible. That's a big profit. If you had asked me five or ten years ago, I don't think I would have thought we'd be ready today. That is important, because everyone has to pay their fair share. That is why my group absolutely supports the treaty before us, because that too is a very special formula. There is actually one treaty that prevents all countries from adapting all their separate treaties with all other countries to the stricter rules that we have agreed internationally. This is actually done at once by the use of all kinds of elements in the agreements we have made in the OECD with a very large group of countries. That's very special. That is a form of international cooperation to say against you. I'm proud of that. I am also proud that this cabinet is now putting this into effect so widely. In fact, there is hardly any reservation. They're putting one in. I will come back to that later, because I think it is sensible. This also shows that the approach to tax avoidance and constructions is a priority, not only in word but also in practice, as is shown by the withholding tax. Yes, I hear colleagues saying it could have been more ambitious. That's true. The Central Planning Bureau says: it is very good that you are doing national things, but certainly the flow of interest through the Netherlands can actually be dealt with even more effectively if you agree on this in a European context, so that transit to countries in the European Union or in the European Economic Area is included. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State what we are actually doing to go further with international agreements. Because the treaty we are discussing today also shows that you can work together to tackle constructions and close shortcuts in the most effective way. But we're not there yet. This instrument is more effective if as many countries participate and all place as little reserved as possible, because it takes two to tango. Preferably we'll all dance together. As far as I am concerned, therefore, it is also very important that the Secretary of State and his people continue to talk to countries which implement this treaty less widely and which still have many reservations. As far as we are concerned, this is the starting point. What is this follow-up process going to be like and how are we going to monitor that more and more countries will delete these reservations in the coming years? 'Cause that's what we all want, of course. Think, for example, of the possibilities of arbitration. Binding arbitration may be necessary to eliminate uncertainty in legal disputes. If there is a dispute, you know that it is neatly bound by an independent party, that that dispute is being discussed and that justice is being done. However, we do receive signals that developing countries are concerned that binding arbitration could put them at a disadvantage because they cannot hire expensive law firms or expensive fiscalists to assist them in doing so and that they would too often lose out if arbitration were to be instituted. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State whether he recognizes these concerns and how we can help them. How can we help to ensure that arbitration is fair, including for countries that may have less deep pockets to hire all kinds of expensive experts? Does the government itself commit itself to helping developing countries, so that they also take a strong approach to such a procedure? It's called "capacity building" in jargon. My group supports one reservation. That is the reservation in Article 11, the so-called saving clause. We have a lot of questions about that. Why is this even in this treaty? The United States is not participating. It is precisely this saving clause that leads to it being included in the bilateral tax treaty between the Netherlands and the US. There it plays an important role in the concerns of what in the jargon is called the "accidental Americans" either "the accidental Americans" or "the accidental Americans." These are Dutch born there or Dutch with a double passport. They are currently suffering a lot from what is called the FATCA file in the jargon. The Americans treat them like domestic taxpayers. I think there are two countries in the world that are doing this: Ethiopia or Eritrea, one of the two, I think Ethiopia and the United States. These people are affected; they are more and more affected by it. This now threatens to even result in them being unable to obtain a bank account. The U.S. government is constantly watching. I have a lot of questions about that. Mrs Lodders has already drawn attention to this. As far as I'm concerned, it's one for twelve. As a chamber, we have also sent letters to the U.S. Congress and to the U.S. Senate. We are speaking as a chamber with the American ambassador in the Netherlands. As far as I'm concerned, this has to stop! I think that the cabinet should add two teeth to this for the perhaps 50,000 Dutch people who are faced with major problems every day in their lives. That is why I have a number of very specific questions. Is the cabinet prepared to join forces with the European Commission and the other European countries to fight against the US? I know, for example, that there is a great deal of attention to this issue in France. Why do we not work together more vigorously in Europe here and why do we not send out a strong signal here? Is that where the Secretary of State wants to take control? Does he also want to ensure that it is introduced into the negotiations with the US that are now running on the treaty to avoid double taxation? We have a cooperation agreement with the Americans. That is what the people who are suffering from this now also resent us, because it will allow the US to come to them and harm them. I hear that the Americans in that treaty are much less cooperative with us. Of course you can't. Is the Secretary of State prepared to enter into a serious discussion about this as well? I am always in favour of the enforcement of treaties, but this is also true: it is not a one-way street. I'd like a response. Mrs Lodders has already said: can we not ensure that the American government finally makes it easier to apply for a social security number? Can it be argued that it is also easier to renounce American nationality? That costs a lot of money now too. Finally, Mr President. The Germans seem to have mentioned an interesting option to ensure that bank accounts of Germans in their case do not have to be cancelled. Mrs. Lodders referred to it as well. That's a threat right now. We received a very concerned letter from this group. Can the Secretary of State see if any inspiration can be drawn from that? Mr. Chairman. So I am very pleased with this treaty, but at the same time I think that there are two teeth on this dossier and we really need to say as a Chamber, as a Dutch government and as a European Union to the Americans that they cannot put our citizens in such a vulnerable position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u28	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'm suspending until 4:30.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u29	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Let's just sort out the paperwork. I think it's okay to start with a general introduction, just put down a few things. We have tried to create a little order in the number of questions. I do that in the form of a number of cubes. It might be useful for me to present it now, so that some Members of Parliament know that the answer might follow in a later block. After my introduction comes the block that deals with what we do with the principal purpose test, then the block about the permanent device, the block about the MAP-tiebreaker, Article 4. Mr Slootweg had questions about that. Then it's the hardest block I call "MLI-other." I couldn't give it any other order than "other." Then there is the sixth block of questions about developing countries. The seventh block is about FATCA, the accidental Americans. A number of speakers had questions about this. Then the very last block of "rest." Mr. Chairman. They're not thick cubes, but it's good that we have a little order, because some things are linked together. In doing so, I hope to lead this debate in the right direction. So if you agree, I'm gonna start my first block soon. I do so by stating that we are having an important moment for the second time today; it is an important legislative proposal. I have already heard a number of people give qualifications to the momentum of this law. I absolutely agree that this law of approval of the Multilateral Convention is a milestone in our fight against tax avoidance. It is indeed the first time that we have been able to indicate in a very effective way what we want, not just ourselves, but with a lot of countries at the same time. We do this on the basis of the well-known BEPS project of the OECD, which means that it is voluntary. Instead of forcing things, we have voluntarily decided with a very large group of countries that we want to change things. Especially in the area of tax competition, that is a real milestone. So I agree with all the positive qualifications given to it. I, too, was very pleased with the support we received from Mr Van Dijck on these points. He said: it is important that we take on these things not only in Europe but also in a larger context. In fact, I totally agree with that. Just a little bit more background. We finally started in 2013. The G20 were the first to say that we should do a little more in developing measures against tax avoidance at international level, not only within Europe but also beyond. The well-known BEPS project, Base erosion and profit shifting, is actually the core that we are talking about today. The BEPS project has 15 action points based on three pillars. The first is that the tax rules of countries should be better aligned; there should be less room between the treaties to make jokes. The tax rules must be more consistent with economic reality. You can create a tax reality and thus attribute profits and losses, but we should actually try to bring those tax rules more into line with economic reality. The third important pillar is that we simply need to be more transparent about it. The tax authorities of the different countries need to know better about each other what is happening. We have developed all kinds of pillars for how we can do this better internationally. Those are the three main moths of the BEPS. Both this cabinet and the previous one welcome this approach. The approach is actually very much in line with what we in the Netherlands have always thought, namely that international tax avoidance is not only a Dutch or a European problem, but is really a global problem. So we should also try to resolve it globally through multilateral agreements. We are extremely pleased that more than 127 countries are now participating in the BEPS Inclusive Framework. At least there is no better example of international cooperation in the field of taxation. We now come to the MLI, which is to adapt all tax treaties at the same time. I have just said that we should have dealt with all kinds of things bilaterally in one go, in order to prevent tax avoidance. It is indeed necessary that not only us, but also the country that we have ticked on our list should do the same to us. I learned a lot yesterday about how dating sites work these days. You have to tap them both, and then when you have them together, it's called having a click. If you have the click, that actually means that you say both: we agree to adapt these BEPS standards to our tax treaties. I can tell you that this is a lot more efficient than negotiating endless bilateral tax treaties. In some treaties, it really takes decades to get them all around, and that is what we are for now. And that goes for us alone: can you see what that means when you do that with 90 countries? In the meantime exactly 87 countries have signed this convention. If you wanted to do all that together, it would take a lot longer. So it's great we're there now. If you participate as a country, you can choose not only to sign up for the tax treaty with the other country, and thus tick it, but also to tick which BEPS measures you want to automatically charge. It's kind of a matrix: I want to do all this with land a through x. Then you can check the measures you want to exchange. It is also clear that the Netherlands is very ambitious. So we have actually decided for all these measures that we think that we would really like to follow these BEPS standards there. This can also be the best thing for effective treaty abuse. In a country like the Netherlands that has a lot of tolerance, the abuse is also significantly greater. We really think it will help greatly to combat treaty abuse. But also the dispute resolution that can arise at the moment when it is unclear where the charging rights are between the two countries can help to improve there. So here too, we have chosen to join the new modern minimum standards internationally. So how does it go on? The BEPS project is basically a voluntary project. You know that, within the OECD framework, we do most of the monitoring on the basis of a variety of peer reviews. On the monitoring I will come back a little bit, but not only the Netherlands but also the OECD we know by now that she does that with a fantastic website so keeps up very well with what is happening in those countries. What are they ticking? How's it going? Who's gonna ratify it? Let me just answer Mrs Lodder's question on this point. I think it is very sensible that we should not just ask to look at the website occasionally; that is what Mr Snels said. We need to help you with that a little bit. If, for example, there is another milestone or something that we think is important, we are simply taking it actively to the Chamber so that, if necessary, we can have another debate on it. Then there are actually two very important minimum standards. I'll tell you more about it in a minute. The first is that well-known PPT, the principal purpose test, which is mainly intended to combat active abuse. The second part is the mutual agreement procedure, which we call an EAP procedure, and which is mainly intended to resolve disputes as efficiently as possible. It is true that these other measures, which we agree within the MLI, are in themselves optional. Then there is the question: why wasn't it chosen to oblige them all? This has to do with the fact that we might want a number of additional measures and perhaps another country too, but we all have to do it in the end. I think this is the biggest common denominator we could find. Moreover, they are not insignificant either, because, as far as we are concerned, these are the core values. We would not mind at all if it became apparent that consensus could still be reached at the end of the day in order to include more parts of it. But at the moment we have ended up with these three measures. The Dutch choices have also become clear, I think. We go all-in to use a gambling term in response to the debate we had last night in the Upper House. We really think that we should and want to set an example here, because it also fits very well with the way we look at tax avoidance. In concrete terms, this means that the Netherlands has now ticked 82 of the more than 90 tax treaties within the MLI. Then the question may arise: why not all? Well, we have not notified a number of tax treaties, because at the moment it is actually more efficient to include the BEPS measures in the ongoing bilateral negotiations. We are always engaged in a set of negotiations at the same time and for some we have already implemented these new standards bilaterally. And then it's actually more efficient to just finish it, then to do it indirectly through an MLI procedure. However, the point is that we ultimately want all our treaties to be able to meet the same minimum requirements through MLI or beyond. Again, the cabinet would not mind at all, instead of making as many optional things as possible more mandatory, and that is why we have ticked them. I have just said that we support the idea of this economic reality. And I think that is mainly intended to prevent unintended applications of treaty abuse. We agree with the Dutch treaty commitment, as we have also shared with your Chamber over the last few decades. So our approach goes beyond a number of other countries. To our regret, we could say. At the same time, it is good that we have so clearly placed our position, because our commitment is not unnoticed, not the OECD. After all, we have become a kind of frontrunner in identifying the importance, for example, of transparency and the exchange of information. This also greatly helps our own agenda to make more clear that the Netherlands may have had a reputation from the past that wasn't always right. Moreover, it certainly does not match the picture of the reality of the Netherlands at the moment: a country that is trying to combat treaty abuse. That is basically the kick-off of how we are in general. There are some more precise things, but I can also take them into account in the questions I'm going to answer. Let me begin with the more specific questions. Mr Snels had a question about the principal purpose test. He asked how a PP works. How do you determine what a primary goal is? In the test we actually say: if your main objective is to make tax use of such a tax treaty, it is not really the intention. But we do like it if it is a structure that is partly influenced by fiscal motives. Then it's not abuse. That's pretty much how it is. Then how is this determined? The structures are being looked at. If you look at whether there is an economic reality behind the story, we do not mind that this economic reality also includes the consideration of what tax means. If we only see this structure because there is something fiscal, it is clearly only meant for taxes and then we find it abuse. It is true, however, that this is not always easy to establish. It also sometimes takes time to agree on this. Ultimately, it is a weighting of real economic motives and tax advantages. That is why we say: the main objective is not agreement, but taxation should be an economic objective. But, Mr Snels said, you also have other possibilities to tackle treaty abuse, such as the limitation on benefits, the so-called LOB. Then why don't we use it anymore? The suggestion is that other countries are successful in this. The short answer is actually that the LOB is a very complex provision which very often does not provide the certainty it may suggest in practice. It has also played a role in the BEPS project and also in the creation of the MLI that very few countries were really enthusiastic about this LOB clause. Moreover, with those countries that would like to do so, we are prepared to agree on a bilateral LOB, so that we can better coordinate on the basis of the specific relationship. We don't want to completely leave the LOB, but it's not the miracle cure that was expected. There's a lot of technique behind it that I'm gonna save the Chamber for now. It is not very easy to just name the good guys here and get rid of the whole discussion. Often you see that next to an LOB you still have an extra PPT to see if it is true. So it is not impossible to use bilaterally, but it is not the instrument to use multilaterally. I'll continue with the next block, about the permanent facility. There were also a number of questions about this, among others from Mrs Lodders and Mr Slootweg. We're talking about Article 12. The question was actually: are we wise not to make a reservation for safety in Article 12, which extends the definition of a permanent establishment in cases where a company, because that is what it is about, can use agents or commissioners? It was also said that there is sometimes quite a lack of clarity about the determination of profits, arbitrations and the choices of the allocation of profits. Wouldn't it be better to wait until all this is clear before you check the check mark, because once you put a check mark, you won't come back? I understand these motives very well, because you can't go back, so the choice has to be very conscious. I think we are quite consciously choosing to tick this article as well now. I would like to give you three reasons for this. We can go into it a little more precisely later, perhaps in second term. The first reason for this, I think, is that it is very pleasant for the fiscal image of the Netherlands that we have indicated that we are going all-in, that we think this is very important and that we want to do so. We have actually already promised that we would do this. If we were to uncheck this tick, we would take a step back from our MLI championship. You can say it would be worth it, but it's one of the reasons we say we should be careful with it. The second reason I believe is that the new MLI provision is more in line with economic reality. As I have just said, we would like to join in this. This is better than many existing bilateral provisions. Mr Slootweg himself also noted that the profits will now be taxed where they were made. That is typical of what we want. I can also come up with examples of why we believe that in the new situation that is more modern and better regulated than on the basis of the old bilateral days. So we also have doubts as to whether we want to put that at risk. The third reason would be that the problems relating to the distribution of the duties are not caused by this new provision. It's good to realize that. It is not the case that this new provision regulates the distribution of duties less well than the previous one. Therefore, these problems are not solved by sticking to the existing provisions. Whether it is the old situation or the new situation, the debate on profit allocation is already ongoing and will continue. The question then is what you get the furthest. We believe that with the new form, based on the most new insights, we can go further than in the old situation. Moreover, it is not the case that the OECD is working on a separate project in this area, such as: we recognise that it is a problem, so let us settle it. Then it would be easy, because then we could have said: "Dear OECD, if you are considering an agreement, we will set the check mark." That is not the case in this case. Mr Slootweg pointed out that there was a link with the effective agreements on dispute resolution, for example through arbitration. Of course, I also consider effective dispute resolution to be essential, but there too, the BEPS project has now led to major steps. There has been enormous improvement in the joint resolution of disputes. There will also soon be arbitration in Europe when the Arbitration Directive is implemented, as we hope.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u31	I am concerned with that third point, the division of taxes. We understand that the OECD is working on the accounting rules. Are we wrong about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u32	Not in a separate project, as far as I know. In fact, all the discussions on the international distribution of charging rights are about profit allocation. They just think they're one step further than we were in the past with the way they've designed and recorded that now. So it's not like they're seeing some kind of blind spot there that they're paying extra attention to with a project. In fact, the proposal is to check it, as we are doing now, and to ensure that we proceed with it. Moreover, the arbitration directive that we are about to implement in the EU is also helping. So it's not like we're still waiting for something that brings us new insights, because I think it makes sense to wait for that before we check it out. But waiting for that does not make much sense, because there is not so much happening at that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u33	Okay, I understand that, but then I hope the Secretary of State can help me a little bit. In my opinion, there are a lot of countries that are enthusiastic about this. I refer to countries such as Germany, Denmark and Sweden, but not countries whose fiscal image is not very good. They deliberately chose not to tick this. In this sense, we would like to take the step with all those countries. So I do not know whether that first image point really applies here, as these other countries are making a different assessment. Can you help us why these countries are making the decision not to do it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u34	I think the big difference is that countries like Germany and Denmark, unlike countries like the Netherlands, were not used much for e.g. slugs. Because we know that we have been used a lot for this, it is precisely a country like the Netherlands that is right to make it clear that we no longer want to do so. A country like Germany may have suffered less from it. I can give an example in the second period of time of why it did not succeed at first, but we still think that it will become clearer in the new situation to apply it. I'll save that for the second term. I think I will leave it at that as far as the permanent establishment is concerned, but I will come back to the example later. Then I'd like to move on to the fourth block, the MAP teebreaker, apologize for the jargon, article 4 of the MLI. Mr Slootweg asked me if the experience of the Netherlands with this MAP teebreaker is strong enough. That was, I think, his question. The short answer is "yes, actually it is." We do not expect the choice of a MAP teebreaker to lead to major problems. A provision similar to a MAP teebreaker is already included in more than 20 tax treaties and does not cause any problems, as far as I can see. In relation to countries where this provision is applied relatively much, I understand that this is the case in the United Kingdom, the application of this provision is actually going very well. The Netherlands will also endeavour to reach a solution on the place of residence of the treaty within a reasonable period of time, in consultation with other countries. The OECD's comments also require countries to deal quickly with requests for the establishment of a treaty residence. I therefore assume that those countries that opt for application will take this to heart and will work for a quick solution. In relation to many other countries, the provision is now not or hardly applied. That in itself is not negative; if it is not necessary, it is not necessary. However, we assume that avoiding double resident status is often best for taxpayers, for example because they opt for a legal form of the country where the company is managed. In doing so, the provision has a preventive effect. So we are actually quite satisfied. The experience on this point is quite good. Then I come to a number of other questions. Let me start with the question of how the Secretary of State is committed to making the red boxes, the unmarked boxes, of the treaty countries green. I think Mr Snels and Mr Weyenberg asked this, but also Mrs Lodders. What can we actually do about it would be the question. In the end, it is another country's choice to tick it or not. We agree that the more green areas there are, the better it is. We all agree on that, but we cannot choose another country. These countries will eventually have to do so themselves. But I do think we can explain that, and we are doing so actively, and we can exert international peer pressure on countries that do not. We may not be able to enforce it and there are no direct repercussions, unlike the mandatory parts of BEPS, which are important for our withholding tax, for example. But by setting an example here, and explaining why we are going to do so, we think we can hopefully convince a number of countries. The fact that we are already doing it is perhaps a good reason for them to follow it. It's not like we're gonna stop now. We're seeing more and more countries intersect. We are also asked whether we see these problems. Sometimes we have solutions that are also seen by other countries. Here's what I know. In the end, it is not up to the Netherlands to make the choice for another country. A number of Members I believe Mr Snels, Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Van Dijck asked: what exactly is the situation with the countries that are not participating? I can already see Mr Van Dijck, but I might now be able to answer his question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u35	Do you have a question about this or about anything else that has been said before?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u36	About something that was just said before. I notice the beautiful scheme with all the countries with which the Netherlands has a treaty and which have now embraced that multilateral treaty, that a lot of countries only embrace the minimum standards and, for the rest, no fill in everywhere. The Secretary of State is now saying: we are going to try to convince those countries. How am I supposed to see that? Is he going to negotiate bilaterally with those countries? Is he going to contact them or is it up to the OECD to call on Canada or Sweden to comply only with the minimum standards? How am I supposed to see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u37	I've just given you some options that we've been considering. We're just gonna do that. That is the answer I just gave to Mr Snels. The OECD, so are we. The OECD, that is staff and people in Paris, but the OECD is essentially strong because of the peer pressure: all the countries that are members of it can ask those countries that are not yet participating if they should not do anything with this. Again, I cannot exactly see in the minds of all these countries why they are not doing it. It may be that they have been delayed or that it has not been a priority, but we will constantly point out that ticking as many booths as possible is simply good for those countries as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u38	Let me get this straight. Is it true that Sweden is generically indicating that it is only participating in the minimum standards? Does this apply to all the treaties they have, or does Sweden indicate it by country with which it has a treaty? The Netherlands has indicated that it applies to everyone. Does every country do that or do they agree on a bilateral basis?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u39	For the minimum standards, yes, but for the specific things you have to cross, that's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u40	It can be different by treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u41	Yes. We cross 82 of the 90 states of the Treaty and say that, if they do the same thing with us, we want to exchange and agree with them on the following points. Sweden does so in the same way as we do. I must honestly say that I do not have Sweden in my head, but it may well be that they tick far less than we do. Then we will ask why they actually do that. Once again, we are fully prepared to play that role. Since we are also a bit, as I said, MLI champions within the OECD, I think we have the role to set an example and to actively promote it to those countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u42	Very briefly. Does Sweden give a generic indication of what they want to do with all their treaty countries or can it differ from country to country because Sweden thinks: well, with the Netherlands I tick this and with Germany I tick something else, because with the Netherlands we need to be a little more careful about the mailboxes? So can it vary bilaterally from country to country or is it something generic?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u43	I think the answer is that you can choose. If I've misunderstood that, I'm sure I'll find out later. Not every treaty has the same underlying flows or economic realities, so with some treaty countries they can choose not to encourage it just like we do, because we are currently negotiating bilateral agreements. We think that is a valid reason for doing this directly. Sweden or any other country will be able to make the same assessment. So it's really a matrix you can fill in. I think it is important that all countries participating in the inclusive framework commit themselves to the minimum standards. At the moment, these are 127 countries. I think that was also a question from Mr Snels. The tax treaties of all these countries must contain good anti-abuse provisions and have proper procedures to resolve these double taxation problems. How they do that, that's up to them. They can do that bilaterally or via an MLI. An MLI seems much better to me, because it is more effective. In the end, it's their choice to do that. Again, we will continue to monitor this and will be happy to tell your Chamber about it. Then I have a question from Mr Snels. He asked about the connection between the blacklist we established in the EU and participation in the MLI. The answer is that it is true that committing and thus implementing the BEPS minimum standards is one of the criteria that the countries in Europe must meet. If you don't meet that, you'll be blacklisted. That does not apply to the voluntary parts of it, because they are not mandatory and then you will not be on that list. That is very brief about this connection. Mr Van Dijck asked why the other action points are optional. Why aren't they mandatory, too? Actually, I've already answered that. At the very beginning, I said that we would not mind at all if we were to impose much more, but we all have to agree to this. In the end, it has become the biggest common denominator that we at least believe should apply the minimum standards. They are happy and important, but this does not apply to all the optional measures that can be ticked.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u44	Did I just hear the Secretary of State say if you don't sign the MLI, you'll be blacklisted?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u45	No, I didn't say that. It was about minimum standards. It's about the minimum standards we agreed on in the BEPS. That's the committing of those 127 countries. If you don't meet those minimum standards, even if you have super high tax rates, you'll still be on that list. For example, it's about exchanging information and that sort of thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u46	I can also meet these minimum standards without ratifying the MLI, because that can be done bilaterally. You are negotiating with nine countries. You just said that we are going to make bilateral agreements with nine countries and then we will meet those minimum standards. Then I'm not gonna rat it out, but I'm gonna do it and I'm not gonna be blacklisted.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u47	No, it's not. You really need to pull these things apart. On the one hand you have those minimum standards; that's just the BEPS. You have to live up to that. If you don't meet that, you'll be blacklisted. The MLI options and everything else we tick, where we go all-in but not everyone, are optional choices that the country itself makes. We have the peer pressure for that and the other measures we have just mentioned. If you don't check, you won't be blacklisted. But the most important three, those three minimum standards that, again, are not minimum standards for nothing, determine whether or not you are on such a blacklist. That was about his question. There were also questions from Mr Slootweg, Mr Van Dijck and perhaps more questions from me about the tax avoidance that could take place via Curaçao, Aruba and Sint-Maarten. What about their arrangements? Let us point out that the MLI is precisely intended to combat treaty abuse. But if you have very few bilateral treaties that are indeed counting on one hand and then you still have fingers left, so yes, that's right, it wouldn't solve MLI for those countries that much. Especially for countries like the Netherlands with a very large treaty network, the MLI is all the more important. The question was whether if they were not all-out there would be more tax competition to be expected on, for example, Curaçao or Sint-Maarten or Aruba. No, not for this reason. There may be all kinds of reasons why you would like to choose that country as a location in a structure. However, the MLI as such does not have so much to do with this, as it sees only the bilateral treaties. So there's no direct link. Furthermore, within the arrangements that we ourselves have with Curaçao and the other countries, we will continue to use the same arrangements that we now have with the MLI and the other Member States. It is not the case that we would not consider that important to the other countries in the Kingdom, but we are dealing with this through our own institution and not through the MLI. Then there was a question from Mr Snels and also Mr Van Dijck on the budgetary implications. How can they be so low when we know that the global corporate tax loss is 4% to 10% of the world's GDP, depending on how you want to look at it? How can it be that if you do that, partly from the MLI, that doesn't knock out the treasure chests? I'm trying to sum it up a little simple. Quite apart from the fact that the tax avoidance is super complex: even if out of 100 countries 20 would do it perfectly, you still have possibilities and there is still a leak with those other 80 countries. If you turned that 80-20, you'd have the same thing. In the end, it's the most successful thing for everyone to do. The question was whether a particle would not come to us after all. In reality, it is in all honesty that it is right for our treaty partners that we should participate in this, because they probably felt that part of their basis was avoided by a structure through the Netherlands. It may well be so, but it is almost impossible to make a kind of point estimate of this. There are now a number of structures that used to go through the Netherlands because of the adaptation of the treaty that we now have no longer go through the Netherlands and thus lead to a larger basis for other countries, which can then tax it. But as a Dutch treasury, we do not have as many advantages as we do. That is why we are introducing zero as a yield. Let me make one more point. That's the country-by-country reporting we do. We have discussed this before in debates in the Chamber. That will be extremely important if you want to know what structures look like. If you show at the level of one large group what is happening and you do not show what profit it is making in any country, for example in tax havens, it becomes extremely difficult for the Tax Administration to intervene. The OECD is now working hard to get even more out of that country-by-country reporting. This is an extremely important step, also in considering whether multinationals are complying properly with the regulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u48	I had made one suggestion, precisely because that OECD data file is so up-to-date and perfect in the way this instrument is implemented. Could it be an idea to include all these estimates from all those individual countries when introducing the MLI, so that you get a bit of an idea of what the effects are? Perhaps the Secretary of State could take this with him in the international consultations or in the OECD context.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u49	That's right. It is also true that Mr Snels asked me earlier whether an overview of this could not easily be made. In principle, we expect this from the Commission, but I would like to go along with him with him to see that the OECD is more successful and harder on this. I can't give you all the reasons why it is. I am sure that there will also be some delay in the Member States, which do not report it everywhere. The thought behind it, I just want to embrace. There's no reason to be reluctant about this. It just gives extra information and that's good. We'll think about how to give it hands and feet. There was a very brief question from Mrs Lodder about the situation. I've given you some descriptions of how that goes. Indeed, you can follow it in the OECD overview. 87 countries have now signed it. A large part of the countries are ratifying it. 19 countries have already succeeded, rather than the Netherlands, in doing so, and we hope to join them soon. I have already made a commitment on the monitoring of this. I think that's important. Maybe one more comment and then I'll almost make a bridge to the next subject. It's about the saving clause. Mr Van Dijck asked what the point of Article 11 is if no one chooses to do so. The answer is that the saving clause is free. It has actually been included in an action of the BEPS late, namely Action Line 6. It may well be that many countries do not yet fully understand what it means to them and therefore do not yet choose to tick them. In fact, we think in a sense: if it does not benefit, it does not harm. We simply think it is a good development and want to participate in it. In fact, we also expect more countries to participate in the end. There was actually a direct relationship with FATCA, I think. I'd like to tell you a little bit more about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u50	The saving clause stands on "no" for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u51	Oh, sorry. We don't choose. Excuse me, I said it wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u52	But no one chooses it, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u53	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u54	Then why is it on there?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u55	Perhaps also because we are not quite convinced yet and we have not been able to see exactly what it means. But you're right. We don't choose. I almost read the sentence completely, but I forgot a not insignificant word. But he's important because he's in a relationship with FATCA. I shall come back to some of the questions raised by Mr Van Weyenberg and others. Mr. Chairman. Block 6, the developing countries. There was a question from Mr Snels. Do you share the analysis that many developing countries are reluctant to participate in the MLI? We just talked about whether we really recognized that. We recognize it in the numbers, but the background is that there would be a real direct apparent reason, as Mr Snels said, we recognize less. We do see that many countries, including developing countries, are involved in the BEPS project and that they have committed themselves to a large extent to the minimum standards that apply to the more developed countries. In fact, we expect developing countries to bring their tax treaties into line with these minimum standards. This can be done through bilateral negotiations or through the MLI. Again, I cannot look into the minds of all these countries to know why they sometimes opt for bilaterally and sometimes for MLI. However, countries with a small treaty network prefer to adapt tax treaties through bilateral negotiations. I also see that more and more countries, including developing countries, have signed the MLI or expressed their intention to sign it. So it is not that we expect them all not to do it. Indeed, it is developing. It is true that the MLI is not always in line with the interests of developing countries. That's where our doubt started to come up a little bit. We cannot just say that we agree with that. Indeed, tax avoidance can be addressed with the MLI. It is also in the interests of developing countries to ensure that tax avoidance also leads to disadvantages for them. Developing countries have also been very closely involved in the discussion and decision-making of the BEPS project and have been able to influence the results of the BEPS process, including the categorization that we have maintained. Through the MLI, they can easily include the most modern anti-abuse statements in their tax treaties in order to improve dispute resolution. For example, the optional provisions that ensure that the fixed establishment decision is more in line with economic reality are extremely important for developing countries. There too, I think they really have an advantage if they were to join the new standards and not continue to handle the old ones. I almost see an intervention coming, but I was just about to tell you about the capacity and perhaps also about the costs: how exactly are we in it? We cannot really prove it, but it may well be that some countries choose to abandon it, because they think it will be a costly matter. As a cabinet, we focus on capacity building. In particular, we must help developing countries, which are often the source countries for this kind of problem. For example, we do this by bet hard on the country-by-country reporting. I just mentioned it. That's important to them. We also exchange information spontaneously, even if the countries have not asked to indicate what substance is or is not present in the Netherlands. Normally, you only do that on request, but in these countries we say that we have the idea that they should know, so we do it spontaneously. They can then better assess whether there is abuse. We are also really strengthening the capacity of these tax administrations through technical assistance programmes and also through bilateral and multilateral programmes that we specifically regulate in this area. Knowledge transfer is often done by the experts of the Dutch Tax Administration, but we also have the International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation, to which the Netherlands provides manpower who can then provide technical assistance through bilateral cooperation in about ten developing countries, for example in this area. We also have several programmes through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, IMF, OECD and the United Nations to use in the field of tax administration and in particular the African tax administration, there is a forum for what we are doing to help countries build up their knowledge. I'm moving on, but for a moment I thought Mr Snels would step forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u56	He does. Mr. Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u57	The Secretary of State has already indicated that in other international conventions and contacts we also get information about these developing countries. I myself do not know exactly what the situation is and what the explanation is that there is still some delay in joining developing countries with the MLI. I do hear some frightening noises from development organizations. I can imagine the Secretary of State and I are both spokesperson for finance and taxation. We are not the ones who have the most contact with the developing countries. Would it not be an idea for you to ask your colleague, Mr Kaag, the Minister of BuHa-OS, if she hears noises and has indications that there are some bottlenecks in developing countries to join?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u58	I don't think that's a problem. By the way, it's not like we're watching all the way in Blaue hipein. Of course, we have a lot of bilateral contacts with these countries. It may also be good to say here once again that we have an exception for these countries when it comes to the tax base in developing countries, including in our bilateral treaty policy. We give more charging rights to those countries or we give them more long-term charging rights, because we know that they often have problems with that. It's a bit about the way you define "fixed facility," but it's a good point. We know that and act accordingly. However, I think it is a good idea and a suggestion to use our postal network to ask again more explicitly why a number of countries, which we would have expected would be good for them to sign that treaty, have not done so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u59	Can we get a letter about that sometime? In due course, not in the short term, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u60	I'm sure you'll get a letter about that one day.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u61	Exactly. I don't know what time to do that either. But it would be interesting in itself to get more information about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u62	With a letter you always have some sort of benchmark, but I also think it is good to include those kinds of points in, for example, the debate on treaty policy in the coming year. But I promise here we'll just check it out. Let me put it this way: if something really comes out that I think is quite interesting and gives a new and different insight than the insights we had today, then I would like to tell the Chamber. Then I come to an important part about which many questions were asked: the FATCA. I begin by saying that I share all the concerns that exist in your Chamber. This concerns the problem of Dutch people who actually happen to have American nationality. It's not entirely coincidental, but they didn't actively ask for it. However, they are treated by the Americans as American residents and suffer all kinds of disadvantages, not only in America but even in the Netherlands. These are the so-called accidental Americans. In the Netherlands, but also in Europe, it is quite a large group affected by this rather complicated and unclear American regulation. Usually they are born in America and have already left the country at an early age, but for the Americans they always remain American residents. This can also affect their tax returns, not only in America but also in the Netherlands. In fact, it is not just about the tax return; it is now also about holding bank accounts. That's all because of what we call FATCA legislation. That's American law. As much as I want to, I'll never be able to change that. It's up to the Americans to do it themselves. But what we can do is that we have done and the Chamber has, fortunately, done so recently. We really think this is a serious problem. There are only two countries in the world that apply this kind of legislation: Eritrea and America. Before I go into it technically, I should like to say that I decided last week to perhaps go to America myself, to bring this to the attention of myself once again. We have now removed a number of letters from the door, but we do not get a response or hardly any response. We tried to talk to the ambassador. I believe that you have done or are going to do so. But it doesn't have the momentum we think it should get. In Europe, we have played with the French in the vanguard so far. In all honesty: and the margin of an Ecofin Council, I have brought it up with colleagues, and, apart from the French colleagues, most of my colleagues do not seem to be greatly affected by my speech. But that doesn't mean we have to stop. So I would like to accept the call, which Mr Van Weyenberg and Mrs Lodder also made to take active steps forward, for example by making this journey but also by indicating very well what problems we are experiencing. I will go into the specific questions, but with the foregoing I would like to point out that you may consider me a sympathizer in your inconvenience. What can I do in the short term? Aside from writing letters again and bringing them to the attention of my counterparts, before we go that way, we're going to mention this again. But what is also important is that tomorrow there is a meeting at the Ministry of Finance with representatives of the banks and the accidental Americans, to look again closely at the effects of this American regulation, which the banks must comply with, on the people who live in the Netherlands and suffer from it. We are therefore looking at which elements we can best take with us. I say once again that I am going to do everything in my power to prevent the unwitting closure of bank accounts of Dutch well-intentioned citizens. I will inform your Chamber about this this spring. This is high on my agenda. Then there was Mrs Lodder's question and Mr Van Weyenberg's question as to whether I was familiar with the German solution, as it was so beautifully called. Fortunately, the answer is: yes, I was familiar with that. We have also talked about this internally a little longer recently. The German solution means that the banks have an effort obligation to obtain the US-TIN number "U.S. Account Holder' which is actually the Social Security Number "U.S. Account Holder'. If the banks are unable to obtain a US-TIN number, they are still allowed to deliver the date of birth. This will enable them to take a step forward without suffering from the lengthy American procedures. Until 31 December 2019, this scheme applies in Germany, but also in the Netherlands. The German solution is, in a sense, no different from what we already have in the Netherlands. The US has now also given banks and US individuals worldwide time to collect and get these US TINs. We end there on December 31, 2019. I have asked whether Germany will stick to that line when the transitional period expires. I have not yet received an answer from the Germans. If they decide to hold on to that even longer, I would have an argument again, but I have not received that confirmation to my regret. Until then, the German solution is actually also the Dutch solution. Mr Van Weyenberg specifically asked: yes, but what about the tax treaty we have with the Americans? He said: that's rather asymmetric; shouldn't we change that to improve the position of these accidental Americans, for example through those singings clause? That might be possible, but the reality is that the treaty negotiations with the US have been on hold for almost two years. That is very disappointing, but honesty commands me to say that I also do not expect a lot of movement to take place in that area in the short term. Moreover, I do not expect the US to want to move fundamentally towards this particular provision. So we can do it very hard, but they will not do it. And, for that reason, the tax treaty is probably even worse for those involved. In short, the real solution here is not a bilateral translation, but the fact that the Americans simply have to adapt their regulations. And that's the responsibility of the U.S. Congress.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u63	I'm assuming the Secretary of State will do everything in his power to facilitate these talks. This seems to me to be more important than just on this important subject. I have one specific question. I understand that as part of that tax treaty there are also some kind of cooperation agreements that also focus on how the Netherlands is de facto cooperating with FATCA. Can the Secretary of State say anything about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u64	Then I think it's about the IGA component of FATCA. I can say something about that. Could we not, for example, modify the FATCA Convention on this point in order to remedy the problems with these bank accounts? I fear that an amendment to the FATCA Convention in this area will not help this group. I'll explain. The obligations of US nationals and Dutch banks are thus the result of this American regulation. The FATCA Convention itself does not create additional obligations. This treaty only makes it easier for US obligations to be fulfilled. I think that's the point. But the obligation for Americans, wherever in the world, to pay this tax already existed in the US, and the FATCA Convention or this IGA aims to implement that obligation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u65	I understand that the source really remains in the American legislation that so many people are affected by, but it seems to me that through this cooperation agreement we are going to be able to use the abbreviation, but together we are actually helping the Americans to do this, and I hear that if we have to do some of the Americans in reverse, that aid is a lot less energetic.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u66	So that's exactly what I've been asking for: is it true that there's some kind of asymmetry? Again, that obligation is not covered by that treaty. The IGA only controls the way you do it. So the obligation does not lapse, even if you change it. So the banks and the people who have a bank account number there, you don't help with that either. If there were a very asymmetrical exchange of information, you could say something about it, but as far as we have been able to oversee it, the US does indeed provide information to the Netherlands on the basis of the reciprocal agreements in the IGA. We do, however, believe that the quality of the exchange of information is below all levels. That has more to do with quality. We're trying to contact the Americans about that. In itself, they keep the reciprocal agreements at that point. Next, Mr Van Weyenberg asks: is it possible, if the reason is really in their own legislation, that the process of applying for a Social Security Number in the US becomes easier? We can certainly insist on that. In fact, we have done so recently. We've been asking what that's like. I know this from my own experience, but it turns out it's getting even more complicated than it already was. We will once again urge the embassy to at least give their nationals the opportunity to comply with this obligation. That is, for example, by offering an extended opening time so that people can really, if they have a problem, get the help to get this social insurance number. Well, I can promise you that. I have a few other questions. We've been walking quite in time, I see. Mr Van Weyenberg asked, if I decode it correctly, how we can proceed with international agreements. I don't think I understand exactly what this question is about. I think I'll leave this for a while. I do have another question from Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u67	This is a form of entrapment. Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u68	I asked two questions. One was about developing countries. The Secretary of State has already addressed this in response to questions from colleague Snels. To a large extent, he asked the same question as me. The second question was as follows. The lesson here is that international cooperation pays off. We talked about the withholding tax. The Central Planning Bureau says about this: what you do is very sensible; you should do that, but especially in the case of interest, you cannot do anything by means of your agreements if the money goes through the Netherlands to other countries, for example European ones. That is why my line was that, even after all the OECD agreements that we are discussing today, we will continue to use even more European agreements, for example in the case of a European withholding tax on interest and royalties or an OECD agreement on a withholding tax on interest and royalties? You are standing, next to all the beautiful things we can do on our own, together really a lot stronger.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u69	Of course, I should never have left this one. Here is a point where Mr Van Weyenberg and I will immediately find each other. This is exactly the stake we have. The criticism of the planning agency was not so much about the measures we are taking now, for example about tax avoidance. It just said that it doesn't work if you only do it if the Netherlands and the rest stay where they are. I fully agree with that criticism, along with Mr Van Weyenberg and others. That is why we say: we have our own new list in the Netherlands, 9% or less. Moreover, the rate of the withholding tax is not 9%. There seemed to be a misunderstanding about that for a while. That's gonna be over 20%. That's not a cat piss to just say. But the fact that those others are going to join us is important. That is why, in Paris, for example, I was able to say that it would be nice for France to join the way we do it in the Netherlands. In the past we were often more defensive in Paris. Now we could actually say: we want to continue here, where are you? In short, I fully agree that we are not going to stop European cooperation. Let's move on to the EU blacklist. We're gonna see if we can come up with some more sanctions together. We would very much like to continue with the follow-up to the BEPS and the OECD and to devise an inclusive framework for more countries. Even when it comes to OECD and G20 work, for example, we are actively engaged in making agreements, for example, on profit-sharing and minimum taxation. That's really something we think we need to get on with. I am therefore pleased that the opportunity exists to put that right. Mr Nijboer asked about Brazil. What are we going to do about Brazil? First of all, let me say that we do have a treaty with Brazil. It is, of course, an important trading partner. It's true, if you look at the list. Do we have a match somewhere? Are we ticking each other's boxes? The answer is no. We don't, and we're sorry about that. We are now trying to do this bilaterally by adapting our own treaty with them in order to bring it into line with the BEPS. Brazil is indeed a country that seems to be a little less on the multilateral. We're not giving up. As with other countries, we will try bilaterally to share these standards, and what is on top of that, with Brazil. By the way, we are working together with the Foreign Affairs and AZ to weigh up what is the highest priority, because we have more issues. But as far as I'm concerned, this is definitely an issue we'd like to share with them. He also asked about the United States. I will probably not surprise anyone if I say that they are not very active at the moment in participating in any multilateral agreements and agreements, so neither are they. They choose to do it as they now seem to think is best, namely bilaterally and only bilaterally, nothing multilaterally. They have committed themselves to the minimum standards, fortunately. But for the rest, I think it would be good if they were some more multilateral champions instead of retreating behind their... I almost wanted to say "wall," but I won't, Mr. Chairman. I have a few final points to make. Oh, no, I might have a second term here. So, Mr President, I think I have answered all the questions that have been put to me in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u70	Thank you. I'm looking at the members. Is there a need for a second term? I see some people shake no and some people nod yes. If I used the order on the list, Mrs Lodders would be the first speaker. You're saying you're gonna need a little more time. I'll just wait a few seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u71	Mr. President, excuse me. First of all, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for replying. I think that today we are really taking a big step in tackling tax avoidance and tax evasion. My group welcomes this, as I said in the first term. The answer was very substantive on a number of specific points. I think that adds something to the Acts. Things have been clarified. Mr. Chairman. I'd like to file a motion. I had to amend the original text in response to the answer given by the Secretary of State. The motion concerns "the German option" within the framework of the FATCA. I'm gonna read to her now. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the US Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA) may require the Dutch bank accounts of Dutch citizens to be cancelled if they do not apply for an American Social Security number;]] [[noting that this is a very undesirable result of this legislation, which can cause many problems for Dutch citizens;]] [[Whereas the procedure for applying for a Social Security number is very complicated;]] [[whereas the German authorities indicated that German accounts do not have to be cancelled in connection with FATCA;]] [[calls on the government to urge the US administration and embassy to simplify the process of applying for a Social Security number;]] [[invites the Government also to explore "the German option" and to examine whether this scheme can apply to the Netherlands after 1-1-2020, so that the bank accounts of the Dutch do not have to be cancelled and report to the Chamber as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Lodders and Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34853-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u72	Mr. Chairman. The effect for these people is really tens of thousands of people. I very much appreciate the efforts of the Secretary of State and, by the way, the gesture of travelling towards America. Think of this motion as extra support in the back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u73	Thank you. I call Mr Slootweg of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u74	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the clear and detailed answer. I would also like to thank him for his commitment, even to the United States, to give the interests of the Dutch a place. As far as Article 12 is concerned, I still need a clarification of where we stand. Let us be very clear: the CDA also thinks Article 12 is a wonderful article. I don't think that's what the difference of opinion is about. We do see differences in imagery and perspective. We notice that the Secretary of State uses words like "champion" and "the best" as if it were some kind of contest. But we think that this is much more appropriate: how can we do as many things together as possible and how can we proceed? That is much more the perspective from which we want to think. In the perspective, words like "imago" also come out. This is certainly not unimportant, but we also think it is a major problem that there are companies in the Netherlands which can now be faced with double taxation. And if the Tax Administration itself gives the signal that there may be a capacity problem in the implementation of this rule, then we think it is important to indicate how we stand in this. So let there be no misconception that Article 12 is really important, but we also think that we should include these points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u75	Thank you to Mr Slootweg. Finally, Mr Van Weyenberg of D66 has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The multilateral agreement is interesting. It's really unique. It's a kind of tax dating: you fill in who you want to go with in tax territory. The only thing is that once you decide to get in the wedding boat together, a divorce is ruled out in advance in the treaty technique. It's a little bit of a feeling of Hotel California: you can check in any time you like, but you can never leave. But when it comes to preventing tax structures, I think this is a very good thing. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the American accident. I am extremely pleased with the capacity of the Secretary of State to fight. I'm also very aware that he can't break iron with his hands. He can't change that American law, but he can do his utmost to find a real solution. I am very glad that he wants to travel to the United States himself. I've asked before if this might be a margin of opportunity for President Trump's visit. I don't think that has worked out, unfortunately, but this seems like a very nice alternative. I know that this Secretary of State also knows the way in Washington extremely well, so I am very pleased with that. I too have a motion, which, like Mrs Lodder's motion, should be seen as an encouragement and support to Parliament's view that this is really important for the Secretary of State in the international discussion. For example, I saw that questions have also been asked recently in the English Parliament. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas a US tax reform puts Dutch residents at risk of double taxation and limited access to financial services;]] [[noting that the House of Representatives has sent a letter to the US Congress and will shortly be discussing with the American Ambassador on reducing the negative consequences of FATCA;]] [[noting that the European Parliament has similarly called for attention to be paid to reducing negative impacts on European citizens;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to call on the European Commission and the European Council to adopt a joint approach to FATCA towards the United States;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to give priority to reducing these negative consequences in the ongoing negotiations with the US on the Convention to avoid double taxation, and in further discussions on the agreement between the Netherlands and the US on the application of FATCA,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Lodders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34853-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u77	If you don't mind me saying one more sentence, Mr. Chairman. I realize that these negotiations are now very low, but if they do come back at some point, I expect that this is a very important element. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u78	Thank you. I'm looking at the Secretary of State. You probably don't have that last motion yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u79	No, but I can start.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u80	You're clear to proceed immediately. I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u81	Mr. Chairman. Will I begin by saying a few words about the amendment, following Mr Slootweg's comment, and then make the two motions? Is that a good order?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u82	I think that's the right order.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u83	Okay, let's do it like this. I have just read through the amendment. I also brought in a little official advice. If you would like to say briefly what the amendment amounts to, it is that we replace our choice of the MLI provision on the commissioner in Article 12 with a reservation. I said this a moment ago, and I will say it again: I really do understand what is meant here. Maybe I outlined somewhere the idea that it's a competition or championship, but I didn't want to say that. I wanted to mention how important it is to explain this. It is precisely a country like the Netherlands that wants to show that it does not want to have reservations about the exchange of information, on the provision of technical information to other countries on the basis of which, for example, treaty abuse can take place. We really have something to gain from that, perhaps more than other countries. The picture is that we would be a transit country, something that is increasingly affecting real business. That's the point. And, of course, if I find out anything now, it's gonna play along. So I'm not saying this from some kind of championship point of view. I really want to make that right. Perhaps I should not have mentioned this as the first argument, because that seemed to be my main argument. But it's in the game. So I would just like to say that this will not necessarily help our fiscal image. The second argument is that I really think that these new provisions are better suited to economic reality. I was just trying to explain that. This gives developing countries in particular a weapon to tax profits for which activities have been carried out in their country. So it is really important for them that we do this. In my view, where we have a mutual connection, we can also be more consistent with economic reality from the perspective of developing countries. I think it is important that they participate and that they benefit from it. The third reason is that I believe that many of the disputes that are currently taking place are neither resolved nor mentioned or provoked by this regulation. Under the old rules, there were actually exactly the same disputes. Stopping this tick isn't gonna solve those problems. Maybe I wasn't clear enough about that. I understand that there may still be arbitration stories, but they are not solved by non-ticking. That's what I'm trying to say. I had a feeling that maybe we didn't quite understand each other yet. At the same time, I understand the underlying idea very well. I was, therefore, a little puffed up and weighed, but overall, I think I would prefer to discourage this amendment. I think the points I have just mentioned are important enough. But I certainly do not want to be unsympathetic about the amendment, because in part of the amendment we agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u84	Just before the formal part of this meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u85	Dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u86	The amendment in part No. 8, tabled by Mr Lodders and Mr Slootweg, is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u87	Mr President, very carefully advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u88	I'm afraid that's just very strongly dissuaded; well then, softly dissuaded. Then the motion to part No. 9 by Mr Lodders and Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u89	Yeah, well, that's a different judgment. I think this is just a very sympathetic motion. I really think of them as support. That's what it was meant to be. That's just what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u90	The motion in part No. 9 gets judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u91	Yes. In fact, the same applies to the motion in part No. 10. It's something else. The only thing I want to say is that I did that just in the first term. It's that we're doing a little bit of expectation management. We can very much want to settle things in a bilateral treaty, but it takes two to tango. With a partner who, as I have just said, is more self-involved than others at the moment, that is super wrapped. At the same time, I see the call behind the motion as supporting the policy we want to pursue. The same was true for the first part of the motion. I would like to make a fist with my European friends, but I cannot force them to do that to me. But I have already said: even if they do not, I will continue to do so. For that reason, too, I find this motion really sympathetic and supportive, so Court of Justice judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u92	So also the motion in part No. 10 gets judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u93	However, I would like to make a comment on the motion for a resolution on item No. 9. Actually, I should have brought this point to my attention by now, I realize. The Secretary of State has indicated that the German option already applies in the Netherlands until the end of this year. Can the Secretary of State then state that if he knows the answer, and if he does not know the answer, how can investment accounts be cancelled in the Netherlands at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u94	I think I know the answer to that. When I moved to America myself and was a sort of US Person, the bank wrote me a note saying that I had to abandon everything that had to do with an investment. So that was five or ten years ago. This is separate from the FATCA. This has to do with the fact that a Dutch bank, when it holds an investment account of an American bank, has to meet all kinds of conditions. The banks do not want that because they are far too afraid that they will get the American tax authorities or authorities up their asses. So even though it isn't an obligation, most Dutch banks are choosing to opt out of this, and I'm thinking of all Dutch banks now, because they're afraid of retallisation, taking it back through American law. But that's unrelated to these American accidents when it comes to holding a cash account or a bank account. It has to do with tax legislation, because you are always subject to tax under American law, even if you don't live in America your whole life. So that's separate from the investment account.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u95	Then it is crazy to note that we are getting the signals that the investment accounts have been cancelled this year. I would ask the Secretary of State once again to see if there is any more information on this matter. If it is separate from the situation described by the secretary, I would like a brief note on what exactly is going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u96	I will. Again, it's definitely not just this year's. I mentioned my own case, but it applies to everyone I knew who once went from a European country and especially from the Netherlands to America. They had exactly the same problems as me in holding an investment account. So that's actually been going on for a long time. It really wasn't a choice for me. I just had to cancel that account. I don't think it's increased this year, but we're gonna check it out. If it's different from what I think right now, I'll let the Chamber know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u97	I'll take a look at Mrs. Lodders. Does it matter to you for the votes? In other words, does that note have to be there by Tuesday or is it separate from that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u98	It would be nice, because it shows that it is being taken seriously. Then we'll have that clarity right away. I would like the motion to be put to the vote on Tuesday, even if the note is not there yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u99	Okay, clear. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-8.u100	I thank the Secretary of State for coming to the Chamber. I shall suspend the sitting until 6.30 p.m.
