ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Finance back to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u2	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let's get the papers back in order. Last night, the good questions we received from your Chamber were thoroughly addressed. I begin, of course, as most began, with my congratulations for Mrs Geerdink's maiden speech. I said it yesterday: it was an interesting contribution, but I also found her English so beautiful. I don't know if anyone else thought so, but I wanted to say that here. In any case, it is a great pleasure for me to discuss with you today the six legislative proposals contained in the Tax Plan and to add the two implementing legislative proposals: ATAD 2 and DAC6, to use just a few beautiful abbreviations. Once again, I found the debate very high-quality yesterday. Many questions have been asked and we have really had to think hard about providing them all with a good answer. I hope I will succeed in that later today. We have, of course, already had two written rounds, so that some of the technology has perhaps already been exchanged so that we can now focus mainly on the political aspects. Let me start with the size of the package. It was cited yesterday by several speakers and I agree with them: it is a lot. It was a lot last year, it was a lot the year before, and this year it might have been more than in the years before. The wish of the House of Representatives, as well as of your Chamber, is right to see whether we can better spread these legislative proposals over the year. We said last year that we could indeed do so instead of always linking all the legislative proposals with a budgetary interest in a tax plan package and that we would consider whether we could bring some things forward earlier in the year. That's what I'm gonna do. At the end of the year there will be a legislative review showing which laws will be on the table for next year. I will deal with this later and I can also say something about the timing, because I agree with you that it is a little much. I will be the first to follow this up with the draft Tax Collection Act 2020-2021 that we will be offering to the House of Representatives in the first quarter of next year. There are a lot of things that have already been put together that we would normally have taken to a tax plan package. We decided to offer this to both chambers earlier in the year. In short, I will continue my efforts to submit legislative proposals to the House of Representatives as far as possible at the time they are ready, so that the members of your Chamber will also have more time to deal with the issues and the legislative proposals carefully and thoroughly. Let me mention a number of legislative proposals that will go to the Chamber separately. For example, it concerns the implementation of the e-commerce directive, which will come to the House of Representatives in the first quarter of 2020 and then your direction as soon as possible. I would also like to mention the Data Processing Act Tax Administration, the modification in box 3.......................................................................................................................................................... These will go to the Chamber in order during the year. According to the planning, a new group scheme to replace the tax unit will come your way in 2020 or 2021 via the Lower House. I will say a little more later on about what ambitions we still have, and a number of these legislative proposals come back to me. Mr. Chairman. It's a big package, and I'm getting started on the content. I made a couple of cubes. If that has your approval, I'll try to act in that order. First, I'll start with Tax Plan 2020. Then the bill OFM 2020. The third block is the Tax Climate Measures Act. The fourth block is the Law on withholding tax 2021, ATAD 2 and DAC6. And then finally, as so often, the block Other questions. That block contains several parts that have not yet been treated. If that can also have the agreement of your President, I would like to deal with it in that order and start with the Tax Plan 2020, which is actually at the heart of this package. Logically, there are always a lot of questions about the burden picture. What does that mean? What choices have been made? It is good to start with this and perhaps with the observation that the economy is at full swing at the moment. Employment is still growing. As a cabinet, we have said that the Dutch must be able to feel the positive effects of this in their pockets. That is why the cabinet also reduces the burden on labour. This is one of the most important priorities, including the fiscal policy agenda. The last Millions note and the previous Tax Plan have already taken important steps, but with this Tax Plan we are trying to take a number of additional steps. For example, the acceleration of the introduction of the dual-disk system and also measures in the general tax rebate and the labour rebate. They have been mentioned, and I shall say a little more about them in this way, especially with the idea that workers, especially middle-income workers, should feel that the economy is growing this year. They should notice that in their wallet. I shall begin with a question from Mr Vendrik, which I myself have thought about a little longer, about the analysis of Stiglitz, renowned economist and, as Mr Vendrik knows, someone I had to deal with in the past when I was at the IMF, because Mr Stiglitz was not exactly in favour of many of the IMF programmes we did. But he's a damn good economist. He has written a new book in which he says something about equality of income and what that can mean for economic growth. In addition, I say immediately that Stiglitz bases his book mainly on American insights and economics. As we all know, the difference between rich and poor in America is not comparable to the differences in the Netherlands. Especially if you live in America for a number of years, you can also notice it on a daily basis. So if you were to position his story in the Dutch situation, you would see that a lot of what we have in the Netherlands already fits his ideal image. Nevertheless, his analysis is this. It used to be thought that people with a lot of income actually spend more money than money to invest; that would be good for the economy. Then you have some kind of over-capacity in money and you could put that in for investment. And so the classic doctrine, also in Washington, was that at very even incomes at a slightly lower level you had left too little investment money, investment capacity, for people to make investments. So they spent, like, all the money on consumption. In the meantime, this image is also not necessarily correct by the IMF for the first time a year or three years ago. It is also true that a stable economy, in which everyone is attracted and in which consumption has a basic pattern, can lead very much to higher economic growth. In my view, the most far-reaching conclusion reached by the IMF was that at least you could no longer prove that income inequality sometimes led to higher economic growth. That was already a huge U-turn for the IMF, but I think Stiglitz is making a really good comparison here. One of the key messages of European integration is also about this income equality and how important it is that we all reach a higher level within Europe. This equality can certainly contribute to economic stability and growth. This is a short reflection. I could philosophize about this for hours, but I won't. I think that part of Stiglitz's story actually fits very closely with the model we have chosen in Sweden, or in Norway, or in the Netherlands or Switzerland, much more than the story we have in America.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u4	May I ask the Secretary of State: this is about housekeeping, the families. But the tragedy I see is that I forgot to say it yesterday, but prepared is that the companies have more and more profits but they do not invest. They give that back to the shareholders then it's thousands of billions a year around the world by buying shares and so on. The interest rate is very low, they don't borrow because they don't invest. That's where the drama of growth is. That is, I think, because many sectors are in maturity, so it is already difficult there. Others have to do the transition. And then we're going to lower corporate tax. With that point, I'm really in my stomach, regardless of how you think about it politically. The economic underpinning of profit is that it has to be reinvested, but if there is no demand or no investment agenda, it does not happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u5	This is a very big issue. How can it be that with such low interest rates, investments are lagging behind in this way? What are we doing in our economy that the level of investment does not come loose, even if there is, as at present, a super low interest rate? Real interest rates are also low. This is an important issue. During the Financial Reviews, we discussed this with each other for a while. There are a lot of causes. It is a fairly broad problem that is global and not just with us. Mr Crone is making a bridge to our own VPB measure. There are still a lot of bridges to make before we get there, but it is a good question. Why do we choose to do that? I will say more about it later when we talk about business. Ultimately, we do not opt for a simple reduction in the Vpb tariff, but for a combination of measures. We opt for a measure with broadening of the base in conjunction with tariff reductions. I finally believe in a system that's really attractive. There is a low general rate and there is a low difference between the real rate and the effective rate. In short, there are few fundamentalists. I can see Mr Van Apeldoorn waiting for an interruption. I think he is very much in agreement with me that it is wise that all the basic narrowers are out. The cabinet opts for broadening the base and for tariff reductions. On balance, there is an increase in the burden on business and no reduction in the burden. That picture does not exactly correspond to what Mr Crone has outlined here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u6	You can say that at best for the year 2021, but over the ten-year period, the share of profits in taxes has fallen enormously to the detriment of labour. If you come back to it, I'm fine with it. The biggest tragedy is not that companies would have too much money, but that they would give it back to the shareholders, who would not then invest it. That was the first part of your story. Shareholders are citizens who apparently do not invest the money again. Companies don't do that either. Then why lower the Vpb further next year?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u7	Again, the bridge between part one of the argument and part two of the argument is about twenty other bridges. Part one is the question of why there is so little investment. Again, you can ask a lot of economists about that. One of the causes is that you need less capital to achieve effective growth. That's much less than when there was a more physical economy. There are other causes. If you look at the interest rate trend over the past few years, you can see that there's something really different going on. That is really another issue. On the issue we want to deal with business, my starting point and that of the cabinet is that it is a good thing that we have a statutory rate that is not too high and that at the same time does not go hand in hand with too many ground-breakers. That's actually where we came from. A number of years we had a much higher corporate tax with a lot of horns and phone calls to get the effective rate down. I think it would be much more sensible to reduce the rate in nominal terms and to use the principle of broadening.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u8	I was still sitting, but you called me out. I have a bit of a point of order. I assume the Secretary of State will return to the Vpb later. That's what I think he said. I have some questions about that, too, but I'm gonna park it now. Let me come back to the story about Stiglitz and the spin that the IMF has made. The OECD has also recognised and reported extensively that excessive income inequality is bad for growth and productivity. The Secretary of State started his story about the Tax Plan with what will happen in the sphere of income tax. Then I have the next question. If the Secretary of State, if the Government recognizes that excessive inequality is not only undesirable from a normative perspective or in terms of fairness, honesty and justice, but is also bad for the economy and for growth, why does the Government choose to introduce the two-disk system whereby the highest disc is reduced and the lowest disc increased? I was wondering if the Secretary of State would agree to that. I have also asked a few questions about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u9	Yes, I do. I still have a couple of notes that are all about these kinds of questions. I can come back to it. I respond very briefly to the latter. Of course, it is not the case that the government takes only one measure when it comes to tariffs. We are taking all kinds of accompanying measures that, for example, have different purchasing power effects and create a different burden. In August we always look at the whole picture of the burden. A balanced purchasing power development for all income groups and family compositions is one of the starting points. We want to achieve it as much as possible. This year there was extra attention for middle incomes and for workers. That will also be our focus for next year. But that balanced income development is absolutely important. Of course, you'll never get it past comma year in, year out on the same thing. Moreover, we always have to be careful, when talking about purchasing power cards, to think that we give point estimates for all kinds of individual Dutch people. This is really about what happens to a certain group. But I still have a number of questions on this subject that are being answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u10	Maybe I will come back to it later, but just one more point. The Secretary of State just said that everyone should feel it in the wallet right now. That promise has been made several times by the cabinet. It was already announced at the presentation of the coalition agreement: everyone must experience it. It is clear to everyone, including the cabinet itself, that this is not yet the case. That is also more or less admitted, although the Prime Minister kept a whole story in the General Political Reviews about that experience being subjective. But we all agree that people have seen that objectively too little in their wallet. Now we are committed to achieving that. My question remains whether you could perhaps do that even more effectively, including for middle incomes, by, for example, lowering the first rate band. You could do that budget neutrally if you raise the highest rate at the same time. Surely that would be a very effective measure to achieve that goal?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u11	There are a lot of measures that you can take on balance to achieve a balanced purchasing power picture. Mr Van Apeldoorn proposes a different approach than we have taken. That flat tax.. it goes to two discs.. was an important political starting point. But then there is always a series of other measures to ensure that purchasing power is sufficiently balanced.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u12	The Secretary of State has already said that the priorities are middle income and, in particular, labour taxation. In fact, he says that this does not apply to those who are no longer employed. I can put it forward, but I'll come back to it in detail later. The Secretary of State has already reported it. I have already pointed out to the Prime Minister and then Minister Hoekstra in the two previous major debates: next year the labour cut, including the inflation correction, is going up by over €400 net and the elderly discount is going up by zero in policy terms. This is increased by €26, a tip, through the inflation correction. That's not balanced, is it? The employment discount thus goes up by more than €400 and the elderly discount by almost zero, with €26. The increase in the general tax reduction for those who are no longer employed is only half. In other words, that's almost nothing. So we get half the increase in the general tax rebate and we get practically zero old people discount. That's not balanced. I would like to say here that this is very difficult for us, and I will explain it to you later in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u13	I would almost say: I know, that was not unknown to me. We have indeed spoken about this a number of times before. I would like to say a few words on a subject relating to 'fiscal age discrimination', which you often use. In the end, you have the employment discount, the general tax discount and the old-age discount, which we increased two years ago. These are all measures in a total pot of measures we are taking. We try to visualize them as well and as angry as possible in August through the purchasing power plates. We have also taken into account the position of the elderly. But if you want to give workers and middle incomes a little bit more advance, you may, on balance, see a slightly smaller plus in the purchasing power cards for the elderly. But it is indeed a plus, I say to Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u14	I'm not talking about purchasing power cards. That's where the elderly are getting better. Let me rephrase. The cabinet has decided to increase the policy increase of the employment discount by around €700 by 2020, 2021 and 2022, even for the years after. Including the inflation correction, this is over €900. The employment discount is going to go up over the next three years, let me put it even more clearly, with almost €1,000 net, but for the elderly it is only certain that the discount will go up by €26 in 2020 and then by €26 in 2021 and 2022. So €75 inflation correction in three years, while the employment discount goes up by €1,000. That's not like a purchasing power bill or anything, that's huge. And now it's coming, chairman and colleagues, it's going to cost 2.2 billion! For the workers, over 2 billion is on the table, a tax gift from Rutte of €1,000 for the workers and the elderly have checked. They get nothing at all, nothing at all! So €75 in three years of inflation correction and the labor discount goes up by €1,000. So that's not like a purchasing power bill or anything. That's huge. And then he comes to the colleagues too: that costs 2.2 billion and 150 million. There are over 2 billion workers on the table, a tax gift from Rutte of €1,000 for the workers, and the elderly have checked. They're not getting anything. Nothing at all! And that is absolutely not balanced.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u15	Mr. Van Rooijen, what is your question? You can also make statements in your own term. What is your question to the Secretary of State about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u16	In the beginning, the Secretary of State says that it is a balanced policy with an emphasis on middle incomes and workers. That's enough for me to know. He actually says, "Shut up, we've been looking at the elderly, but we're not doing anything about it." I have to say at the beginning that I totally disagree with that and that I will return to that at any time during the debate, as with the Prime Minister and Minister Hoekstra. They then bring up the increase in the AOW. Yes, the AOW is indeed being increased with the inflation correction, by 1%! Rutte then says, sir, you must not only look at purchasing power, but also at the AOW. But it's not a big deal either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u17	But, Mr. Van Rooijen, what is your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u18	My question is whether the Secretary of State would like to explain...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u19	Interruptions are intended for brief, explanatory questions. So would you like to ask a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u20	I think I'm talking. I ask the Secretary of State to explain why the workers will get €1,000 over the next three years and the elderly will get nothing at all. He doesn't answer that. He says: we have looked at it and the elderly too are making some progress in terms of purchasing power. Yes, but less than the workers. It is not about the purchasing power of a year, it is about talking about a tax plan of €1,000 for the workers, including the self-employed, so not only the workers............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ We have had a technical presentation here, you know that. On the second page are the policy changes: general tax discount, labour discount, self-employed deduction. The old-age discount is not included, as there is no policy increase in the old-age discount. We just don't exist!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u21	I call the Secretary of State for an answer to your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u22	Mr. Chairman. The question I distilled from this is in particular in the partial assumption that Mr Van Rooijen makes when he looks at what happens to the discounts. He forgets to say that we are also doing something about the self-employed deduction, for example. One of the reasons why we are now increasing the working discount is that we are reducing the self-employed deduction. That was a combination package. Most elderly people will not suffer much from this self-employment deduction. The point in this kind of discussion is that it happens every year, and that is what I understand, is that Members always take one measure out of it. They are very opposed to this, but they forget that this measure is embedded in a whole range of other measures. However flawed and often I say that it is not a promise, those purchasing power cards ultimately reflect what the government does for you with all the measures that apply if you as a person live about the same life. That is what we are trying to visualize as best we can. These are not individual promises, but all these measures are taken together. In the end, you can make a comparison to determine whether there is a balanced picture of burdens between the different groups in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u23	Mr Van Rooijen, a third time in conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u24	The Secretary of State is making things worse now. He says: because we are going to limit the self-employed deduction in seven years, we want to compensate the self-employed with a higher employment discount. This is going to apply to a much larger group of workers, which costs 2 billion, but the elderly do not participate. You are now saying that we have increased the reduction in working hours for workers and for workers in order to compensate the self-employed. But the elderly do not get that extra increase in the employment discount. So the self-employed get less deduction, but they are fully compensated and more than that, and the elderly stay out of it. They do not also receive compensation for the reduction in the self-employed deduction that employees receive. I think that is absolutely discrimination. You can imagine that we will make this very difficult in the final analysis of this Tax Plan. I have never voted against a tax plan for eight years, but you must realise that we will make this very difficult in our final judgment if you stick to this position. This is also true for next year and for future Cabinets, because this is absolutely unacceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u25	Secretary of State, you continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u26	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I will. Mr Vendrik also had a question about purchasing power. He referred to Prime Minister Rutte when he spoke as party leader of the VVD at that festival. He called on companies to allow employees to participate in any event in the profits they make. He actually said: if nothing happens there, then I do not think it is logical to do anything about the reduction of the Vpb we have been aiming for. Mr Vendrik asked whether he could understand the Prime Minister in such a way that there would be a direct link between, on the one hand, the proposed reduction in GDP and, on the other hand, the increase in wages. I understand that question and we have discussed it before in the Chamber. There is no one-to-one link between contract wage development in a particular sector and, for example, the Vpb in a particular sector. At the same time, it is also important for the cabinet to inform everyone about prosperity. When we talk about purchasing power, as we have just seen, you see that wages and what happens to wage developments are extremely important for people. We can of course do things on our side as a government, but the intrinsic development of what you deserve is extremely important. I therefore believe that the appeal was justified, and that was also endorsed by the cabinet. There's just no kind of automatic coupling, which means what contract wage development you would or wouldn't do Vpb; he was talking about 2.5% and 3%. But the idea that you look at a balanced distribution of income and purchasing power every year is understandable. So we will look at that again in August.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u27	I wonder what the Prime Minister's words might be like. The Secretary of State says it's not a one-to-one link, but what does it mean? If those words have meaning, then shouldn't this mean something concrete? Then you have to be able to say at some point: and now those wages have not risen sufficiently and do we also refrain from further lowering the high Vpb rate for the following year? So it's one or the other after all. Either it's an empty gesture or it means something, but then you have to be able to make it concrete.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u28	For clarity's sake, I'm not going to go into what he said at that festival endlessly. I have already said in the Chamber that you should ask him. I'm just saying, and that's cabinet policy, and you have to look at the balance of purchasing power in a year, and that's why you're looking at burden-sharing between citizens and businesses, for example, even though it's never one-on-one. Formally, when you want to make a very sharp distinction between the development of the burden on business and on families, you would also be in danger of increasing the burden on families if you impose a burden on business that cannot be lost other than in the passing on of prices. At the same time, we are clearly focusing certain measures on citizens, businesses or small and medium-sized enterprises. So in August there is something of a consideration in which you look at all these things. It is good to keep looking at what we think of it, but we are not going to introduce a kind of conditionality into the law on the Vpb that so much percentage point of Vpb increase or decrease follows. That link is not that direct, but this is just part of the overall picture we are looking at in August.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u29	I see the Secretary of State making all kinds of retreating movements, but the Prime Minister is also Prime Minister at a VVD festival? The cabinet speaks with one mouth. Moreover, I think these words have also been repeated in the House of Representatives. That line has been deployed by the cabinet. Parties in the Lower House have asked the cabinet about this. Then it is, again, the question for me, and it was asked yesterday: if there is a Ruttenorm, then what is the norm? The Secretary of State then says: we are going to look at the whole picture; but I do not think that is enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u30	For all clarity: there is no Ruttenorm and there is no direct link between one and the other. This is certainly not a retreating move, because the fact that you are looking at the development of burdens on businesses, on citizens, on large and small enterprises is important when you decide on the whole burden package in August. It's gonna stay that way, but there's no Ruttenorm.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u31	I understand that there is no automatism: if this is then, without conditions. At the same time, as Mr Van Apeldoorn rightly said, I assume that the words of the Prime Minister were also spoken on behalf of the cabinet. They've been repeated in the House of Representatives. I assume that this will have a special meaning when the government looks at the 2021 budget in August, and that we can at least expect the cabinet to give a very explicit appreciation on this point of the state of the wage increase in 2020, how it assesses it, whether it believes that the Prime Minister's appeal has been heeded, repeated in the Second Chamber, and whether, and if so, what consequences this has for the burden, in particular the tax on profits.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u32	In other words than I would choose, I think Mr Vendrik is saying what I have just said. I don't think there's a concrete call or a Rutte standard that says, "That's how we're gonna do it." I think so, and we will... Every time we present a tax plan, we also give an assessment of developments. What do we think is important? This year we have said that it is important, for example, that things happen around purchasing power developments: middle income, workers. Once again, that call for wages was justified and we have repeated it as a cabinet. It's true, that's important. The cabinet itself has tried to set an example there, with the wages we pay and the collective agreements we conclude. So we think that is an important issue. I just want to get away from the idea that we have already agreed that there is a direct link between one and the other. There isn't one. The idea behind that is, of course, that balanced development, including for the citizens versus the business community. So I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u33	Mr Vendrik, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u34	My question was, perhaps, the Secretary of State can explicitly say something about this, whether I can assume that after the Cabinet had thought and decided on this in August, at Princess Day this point éxpliciet, it will be well marked in the documents of the Cabinet and that the Parliament, and thus the First Chamber, has a good view of how the Cabinet has assessed the increase in wages, what the state of affairs is, what it thinks of it and how it relates to the choices it makes for the general burden picture in 2021.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u35	I think that is exactly what we should do. I find that not only for next year, but all the years after. When you use your Millions Note and your Tax Plan to give an idea of how to make choices in burden development, this is just an important part. This includes, for example, purchasing power, which means wage development. The only thing I want to avoid is that the only little thing I'm saying is that there's not some kind of movement "and because contract wage development is 2.9, we decide to do this or this." So if Mr Vendrik agrees with me that there is no link, but that it is of course important to make choices, I think we agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u36	Finally, Mr Vendrik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u37	I understand the Secretary of State's point, although there would be a digital link. But I think the point is very special in that the Prime Minister himself has drawn attention to this. We all agree with the Prime Minister. Then that may also be expressed in a separate, special way in the documents next year. That is a point which I will keep to, because for that it is just a little more than the usual decision-making in the cabinet and the responsibility for it, about the overall burden, purchasing power development, wage developments and so on. It's just a little bit more than that. I would like to see that in the documents of the cabinet next year. I hope the Secretary of State will see that chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u38	I can see that, so we will. I therefore hope that Mr Vendrik, when the Prime Minister has policy intentions, will be standing here again to say how important it is for these special words and calls to be given special attention. If we can get that together, I think this is fine. Mr Vendrik also asked for another link, namely that between the high incomes and the August decision-making, because we have already done the burden relief, the burden plans we had for next year in this Tax Plan, because we thought that purchasing power development was so important this year. He asked whether he could assume that not at least next year, because that year is a slide from 2021 to 20, there will still be a compensatory action, for example towards high incomes. In Mr Vendrik's words, that would not be the image he would be pleased with. That's actually true. Every year we look at what this means for all different groups in the decision-making process in August. It is not, therefore, because there had already been a tax shift in this year, which automatically leads to a compensatory tax reduction for the high incomes in the following years. Mr Vendrik was quite right about that. We shall therefore continue to look again and again, including from the supplementary and amending budget, at the rates of increase and decline. We continue to hope for progress in income from different groups. That doesn't include automatism from the fact that you did a slide the year before, so I think he got that right. I also admit that we will not do so and that the principles of balanced burden sharing will actually be the same as we used this year. Then Mr Van Apeldoorn asked us what the government is doing about rising inequality. He felt that the reduction in the top rate could not be explained. I pointed out to him just now that it is not a single measure but rather a combination of measures and that it is trying to ensure a balanced distribution of income, in which both low-income and higher-income workers can make significant progress. The growing inequality, also referred to by other members, of the Medium-Term Forecasts of the Plan Bureau is actually about the period below. So the Planning Bureau at its MLT each time for a cabinet period after the one you're in on what's actually the underlying trend. That is why it is true that they say: you have to watch out for what is happening there. It's not just that everything's gonna be okay. Moreover, it is not the case that all the measures that we are now giving to reduce the burden are washed away by those measures that find out. Everything that we now give to burden relief is simply structural. It's gonna stay that way. Only, in view of the economic expectation seen by the Planning Bureau, they say that this would result in an inherent pressure on people's purchasing power for a forthcoming cabinet period, i.e. 2021-2025. That is why it is also up to another cabinet to do something with it. Mr Crone asked for that too. Why are we even doing that? That is also a bit of a question why the cabinet does not direct itself more directly to property inequality, because I think that was also what Mr Van Apeldoorn asked for but more on burden-sharing. This is because, for example, the Planning Bureau cannot properly assess the impact of policies on household assets, as they can on income distribution. That is, of course, an important distinction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u39	The Secretary of State had already moved on to the following topic, property inequality. I may also have a question about that, but I would like to come back to the block for this, because the Secretary of State is moving very quickly now. He talks about the long-term consequences of income inequality. He says that it is up to future Cabinets to do something with that, but it is the result of the decision to introduce the two-disk system and also to reduce the top rate. Then my question remains as to why this was chosen. The Secretary of State is talking about a balanced distribution. I have also indicated in my first term that there are great differences in what people get. Then the Secretary of State says: we have chosen to make improvements especially for workers. My question is: why should non-working people be so left behind? In absolute amounts, a welfare mother with two children gets €15, a middle income gets €200 per month. But also relative, because the first quintile of the income groups progresses 1.4% and the higher quintiles over 2%. That's a bigger inequality, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u40	Mr Van Apeldoorn asks this question several times in a different way, but the answer remains the same. It is the total of measures leading to a distribution of purchasing power. As a cabinet, we make choices about that. They would be different, I understand, from the choice made by a Van Apeldoorn government. The fact that you work in percentages instead of nominal amounts is really a bit the way we have been doing it for years. That's good too, because if you have a minus, the same goes for you. So we should also be a little careful not to pretend that we are presenting percentages when it comes to purchasing power development, trying to keep some sort of truth from happening. It really isn't. You can just figure it out. That's what we plan to do. But if you look at the comparability between the different groups, the percentual explanation is the most real one we think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u41	We believe that absolute amounts also matter, but even if you look at percentages, you can see the differences. I just remembered that. The lowest quintile progresses less than the higher quintile. That is what was deliberately chosen. Apart from the long-term effects, the purchasing power effects in this sense do not increase equality but lead to greater inequality.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u42	In my opinion, we have also had an exchange of views on those lower quintiles. This also has to do with the fact that in those lower quintiles, for example, people are also covered by benefits, which do not work. So as the group is larger in those lower quintiles, you will see that also in percentageal progress... Once again, I would like to emphasise that all groups are making progress and, after our decision-making in August, they have made even more progress than we have already intended. But indeed, since we want to give the workers something more than the non-working ones, it is logical that those lower quintilles are less advanced than those above. That has just to do with that compositional effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u43	Mr Van Apeldoorn, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u44	Yes, I understand that, but I note that it has been a political choice of this cabinet not to allow the non-working people to benefit from economic growth to the same extent. It has always been said: now everyone must feel it. However, it has now been said that in this respect certain groups will feel less. That is a political choice, which I do not share with the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u45	It's not just the difference between non-working people, people with benefits, and workers. Inequalities are also high within the category of workers. The Gini coefficient increases with this package. You say that this is also the case next year and that this is because of the MLT. In the MLT, you impose a burden increase of 4.5 billion in the next cabinet. That's your policy. The next cabinet should make up for 4.5 billion burdens on employees. The Gini coefficient is put even more under pressure by lowering the top rate and increasing its lower limit. You're really locking this place up. Within the category of workers, the middle income will also have to pay back in full the following period.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u46	I don't think that's entirely true. I would remind you of the basic path we started as a cabinet. We had to start with a minus of over 9 billion. If you want people to come out in a positive way, at least you have to straighten out the basic path. We had to take that into account. The same applies in the case of constant policies. If we do nothing at all, if no laws are made, if no new policies are made, if the composition of our households remains the same, if everything is ceteris paribus, then that could be the result according to the planning agency. The reality is, of course, not that nothing happens. This cabinet does a lot of things. Of course, we're trying to make up for the basic path. There will always be an additional effect of economic development after us. We cannot make up for that effect already. If the effect had been positive, we wouldn't have been able to bring it to us either. That's really something for a next cabinet. When planning, they will have to take into account the underlying MLT estimates. They will have to make their policy choices on that. That's something of all times.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u47	I asked the same question. Of course you started with a 9 billion deficit. The cabinet provides 9 billion relief, but there is also a billion involved in the policy-specific change in care, i.e. the burden of care. On balance, this cabinet increases the burden by 1 billion, see page 36 of the reply. My point is not the procedure. Of course, a new cabinet needs to start over. By lowering the top rate and by raising the income limit for the top rate, you're actually putting a next cabinet on the line. The number of buttons that can be turned on is getting less and less. In a subsequent period, therefore, you will have to pick up even more from those middle groups or a subsequent cabinet. You've locked the top fare.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u48	I don't think it's very useful for me, in general, to talk about the policy of a next cabinet. We make this choice now. Once again, the emphasis is on middle incomes and workers. Mr Van Apeldoorn says: we had made a different choice and at the same time let everyone make the same progress. Our choice was to make everyone feel it. Everyone has to make progress. But we have a little extra attention for the workers and the middle incomes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u49	Mr Crone for the third time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u50	Then you'll confirm the analysis. The "top rate" button has fewer possibilities, but a new cabinet should turn on it anyway. It must then either raise the top rate again or lower the income limit for it. It has to be repaid. You cannot say that this is the problem of the next cabinet, because you have now limited the possibilities of these buttons.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u51	That's not true. Just as we can adjust rates of income tax, the Vpb or whatever, can't a next cabinet do the same? It is not that everything we do now is poured into concrete. I hope not. I hope that we will continue to have governments that will continue to govern and make the choices that are necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u52	Finally, Mr Crone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u53	Yes, then there will be a higher top rate or a lower limit for the top rate and the middle building will be further pressed together. Maybe you'll come back to that. I also asked this question in relation to the tax rebates which all have to become income-dependent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u54	At the different discounts I come back in the next block. I'd better get over there right away. Several members, for example Mr Schalk, pointed out that the reduction in the general tax rebate was continuing and the cabinet tried to increase the purchasing power of one and two earners equally every year. That's right. Mr Schalk asked whether it was not time to stop this and freeze the phasing-out. He also asked whether the income-dependent combination discount had not become obsolete and whether it could not be investigated whether this IACK could be stopped or used in such a way that the gap between one and two earners would not be further widened. Mr Schalk and I have discussed this issue a number of times. Last year, at his request, we had a larger study of the exact situation with regard to these developments, for example the developments concerning marginal pressure. That's also a theme that goes with it. I understand part of his analysis. It's all gotten really complicated. In the beginning the instrument can be very sharp, but over the years it can become less sharp. That's why you always have to evaluate. In a way, I understand his appeal, but you also have to look at the measures themselves. Both instruments continue to make work more rewarding. That's something this cabinet wants. Therefore, the IACK and the phasing out of the payability of the debt, which is a word of the general tax rebate, remain useful. It is not the cabinet's commitment to adapt it now. Moreover, in 2015, the Planning Office looked at the effectiveness of all tax measures in the area of participation policy. This showed that the IACK was a fairly effective instrument, also in comparison with other instruments. Our intention is to go back into the field of efficiency next year, including this regulation. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment will carry out a policy review of labour market policies, including this reduction. The point that we need to continue to look into this in order to see if they are still doing what they needed to do is quite right. We will continue with this next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u55	There is now a great deal of attention to the question of how the cake should be distributed. I hear the Gini coefficient coming in about every minute. I'd like to put this in a frame, including for the others. The Netherlands has a reasonable Gini coefficient. It's at the bottom. In the list of the World Bank of 160 countries, we are somewhere in place 140 or at least in those areas. The first issue in terms of inequality is South Africa, if I am not mistaken. I have a question for the Secretary of State about the marginal pressure. I just heard him talk about that. Instead of micromanaging at the last purchasing power rates behind the decimal place, it is much more important to facilitate growth. This marginal pressure is a huge barrier, a huge brake on activities. I mentioned this yesterday in my speech. I understand from the Council of State that this pressure can reach 127%. With every euro you earn extra, you go backwards €1.27. Of course, that can never be the intention. What is the Secretary of State going to do to solve this problem in the short term?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u56	I'm just looking. I was going to come back to it later, but let's talk about marginal pressure right now. That too is a debate which the Chamber is right to enter into. We've been doing that for years. The Netherlands has a system in which a lot of income support is given at the bottom. The moment you cut it down, you see the marginal pressure rising during the phasing-out pressure. If you no longer qualify for an income support measure, you have less left on balance and you see that the marginal pressure is higher. At the beginning, the cabinet appointed this as one of the most important spearheads. Several members have asked for it as well. Mrs Van Huffelen also said that this marginal pressure is really an issue. The single-earning families will feel that pressure stronger than other families. Of course, that has to do with the way in which we have built our system. We really need to do our best to get that marginal pressure down. In the past, we have seen that this marginal pressure has moved a little further into the wage building. As a result, the people who want to work a bit, who want to work extra hours, will not be punished for that. Sooner or later, you're gonna have to deal with the fact that you can't export that marginal pressure to Mars. Somewhere on that income line is the gap of marginal pressure. As long as we choose to do so, I am in favour of maintaining income support measures, and this creates marginal pressure at the point where those measures cease. We can, however, ensure that not all of these phasing-out routes fall together exactly in such a way that the sum total is a hugely high marginal pressure. I am only saying to Mr Otten that the low-hanging fruit has been picked. We really need to look at it. That's why we have the building blocks. The debate on this is about a lot of elements. Mrs Van Huffelen asked which elements were included. I'll get to that. This is incredibly important. The marginal pressure is one of the points where we need to see if we can't think outside the boxes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u57	Unfortunately, I do not feel enough sense of urgency. This is extremely important, even when we look at education, where there is a shortage of teachers, at the care and you name it. This marginal pressure discourages more work. People are just gonna work part-time. They're thinking, "Education deficit? Fine, but I'm not going to work another day, because then I'm going backwards." So it is a source of many other problems in society that we talk about all day with all kinds of colleagues of yours. I would like to stress once again that the sense of urgency must be raised. This really needs to be dealt with in a concrete way. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State how he intends to give it hands and feet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u58	I do not disagree with Mr Otten that this is an extremely important point. I just indicated that one of the principles of the cabinet was to ensure that those high peaks in marginal pressure would at least go down. I think we've done that quite successfully. It's still high, but peaks well above 100% aren't there anymore. At the same time, the question is how to bring down the pressure even further. One option, which, by the way, I would not choose, is to reduce income support at the bottom. I'd say that's a bad choice, but that definitely solves the marginal pressure. But the question is, what did you really solve? Although a lot of problems are urgent and important, there is not always a simple solution, unfortunately. I'm just trying to say that if we want to look for another marginal pressure, just around incomes from €30,000 to €32,000 there you can see that top is coming up. We should also be willing to make really fundamentally different choices. That's what we do with the building blocks that will be known in a few months. Nothing tells us that the building blocks will only provide elements that we can do in ten years' time. To be honest, I hope, probably together with Mr Otten and a large part of this Chamber, that the building block debate really will bring something that we can tackle. If that's the case, there's no problem for me to start with. In fact, it would be wise to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u59	Indeed, I have also noticed that the peaks are gone from marginal pressure. I heard the Secretary of State say that the IACK is considered effective. That depends on what you intend to do with it, but from a certain perspective it will. Let me come back to the general tax rebate and its transferability even more so, to the phasing-out. Let's go back in history. The Secretary of State says we've talked about this before. That's right. It started in 2009, you might say. That's when the phase-out started. It was 100% and we are now, ten years later, on 20% transferability. Each year, thanks to the government agreement, the government must have tried to ensure at least Christian Union and CDA that the gap does not widen, looking for around 6% in all kinds of measures to ensure that purchasing power is equal. But the gap is still six times bigger. A single earner who earns €40,000 pays €9,000 tax and two earners who earn the same amount pay €1,500.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u60	What's your question, Mr. Schalk?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u61	Now here's my question. Next year we will probably get another 6% reduction, because the government apparently wants to reach 0%. But isn't this the time to say 'let's freeze at 20%', which is not a high figure at all, and to take that as a starting point to prevent us from having to make a new arrangement next year in order to maintain purchasing power at least and to start a solution to the gap?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u62	This too is a very beautiful substantive tax discussion that we have had a number of times about on the one hand the question of how to best reflect the principle of carrying on and on the other hand a tax system in which choices have been made to activate, for example, the least-earning partner or the not yet active partner to start working. In the past, this has really led to a higher employment rate. That's what we wanted, and that's what's important. Important for the least-earning partner, often the woman, then and now, so that she can provide income, pension and independence herself. We consider that to be extremely important. The decision to opt for an individual concept of income, contrary to the concept of wealth which, as I believe Mr Ester said yesterday, can be extended, is a choice of cabinet that I still support. I think we should continue to defend it. Mr Schalk is right, when we started doing this, we promised that we would do everything we could to prevent that gap from widening further. After all, if you don't do something, you'll see that the gap between one and two earners is growing. We're trying to keep the gap steady. For the first two years, I believe that even made it past the decimal point. This year it was 2.2% versus 2.3%, I say out of my mind. So this year it didn't quite work out, but it almost did. And again next year it will remain our starting point. If, for example, dealing with the portability of the general tax rebate can be an effective measure, we will not fail to take it. Just saying "whatever happens, it's a good idea to freeze it and in August we'll look further" is something else. It should be the other way around. We must continue to defend our objective, which is not to widen the gap. The necessary measures will be discussed in August.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u63	I suppose this could also be included in the tax building blocks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u64	Absolutely. The danger of the building blocks is that, if we are not careful, it will become a thousand things. But a number of elements, including the one and two earners and the marginal pressure, but also the income composition and the equality between income and wealth are typical things that we have rightly talked about in recent years, including in this Chamber. These are points where we are all not entirely satisfied with the way in which we dealt with it, apart from the complexity of all those building blocks. I will come back to this in a more detailed way, but these building blocks must offer apolitical solutions, which every political party says 'if it works out like this, we want to see the following blocks again in a new cabinet period'. Or, which would be even more beautiful, there are already a few cubes and there was an interrupting debate with Mr Otten on the subject of'maybe we can already find political majorities for blocks, so that we can get to work on them already. It is therefore absolutely an important issue. I'm sure it's going to be discussed extensively.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u65	Thank you to the Secretary of State for his recognition of the problem of marginal pressure. He has indicated that we will come back to this in the context of the building block discussion. That building block discussion is foreseen for next spring, but can elements of it already be included in the Tax Plan 2021? In particular, we are talking about groups of income. People who work in care or education are not now encouraged to work more. They make a choice for themselves, but it can also lead to the social problem that we have a shortage of labour in these two sectors.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u66	Absolutely. If pieces of useful material emerge from the building block discussion, I hope, of course, that is what we could already find political majorities for, then I think we should not fail to do so. That can be done through the Tax Plan, a bill, but it doesn't necessarily have to, given the opening of our discussion today. I'm sure you can. At the same time, I would say that for some problems, for example in the sectors you mention, taxation is not the only solution. If every problem is asked whether a solution can be promoted through taxation, you will get the structure that we now have and which we all think has become far too complicated. In defence of the feasibility of our own system, and also to talk it back politically, I say that sometimes solutions can also be found outside taxation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u67	I am listening very carefully to the Secretary of State, also to what he said earlier about the reduction in working hours. I would like to call for these building blocks to be very precise about the extent to which, for example, such a reduction in working time, which used to have a very separate purpose, which applies to many fiscal measures, but which we have forgotten a little bit about, or at least a different frame, is effective in promoting participation in employment. You mentioned the planning agency earlier. If you read those studies correctly, there is also the sound: "They are actually a bit at the end of their fiscal Latin. They don't do what they were meant to do anymore. It's become too rude." The employment rate is already very high in the Netherlands. Could I ask you to look at this very clearly, seriously and out of the box now or in the context of these building blocks?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u68	Oh, yeah. Coincidentally, I was just getting ready for the labor discount. Mr. Ester beat me to it. It's true; you have to keep looking at the effectiveness of the instruments and you shouldn't assume that if an instrument was ever effective, it will be effective in the years after that. For example, the employment rate is already much higher than in the past. Logically, a reduction in working hours is likely to be less effective than a few years ago. So we have to look at that, too. We also ask the planning agency to pay attention to this every time in studies. Moreover, this reduction has contributed to the fact that the employment rate is now so high, but I fully agree with Mr Ester that we should not only look at past successes. We must continue to assess whether it is the most effective way to advance our economy as far as possible, including participation. So I think it's fine. I also intend to continue to review these fiscal instruments on a regular basis. As you know, we love that in the Ministry of Finance. The same applies to this issue, and I can assure Mr Ester that this issue of participation in the fiscal building blocks has been taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u69	I was delighted to read the letter from the Secretary of State in September on marginal pressure, but you have to read it all the way to the end. The last variant is brilliant, including CPB: zero budgetary effect, zero income effects. This confirms precisely that there should be no taboo on the top rate. Then you can flatten all the tax discounts again. Then the SGP and the Christian Union are also satisfied. This will restore the functioning of the labour market. So why didn't the Cabinet read through to the last variant in your letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u70	I suppose if it's my letter, at least I've read it through. Maybe we made another choice. It's not the same thing with variants. That brings me back to the answer I gave Mr Crone on this. In the end, you choose a set of measures that you think are best at the time. For me, there are never taboos on new arrangements. I did not just say this in the part about the fact that we can also look at the Vpb in August, for example, in response to Mr Vendrik's questions about this. At the same time, Mr Essens had a right point, namely that we should be careful that we make a kind of celebration of tariff adjustment every year, whether it is an income tax rate or a VPB rate. There was a cartoon in a newspaper that indicated exactly what I sometimes feel. There was a black box and you could pull a string, where you could see which Vpb rate is on the string. It's like, oh, today they do that. For investors in the Netherlands, too, we need to lay down something of a predictable path specifically for the Vpb. Again, if you go down a little bit with the Vpb every now and then, and maybe not by the path, we'll see. But to go up or down every year with certain rates, including opting for top rates, two discs and then three, then two more in a few years; we shouldn't want that. But there are no taboos.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u71	I also understand how politics is going, because then you get ideological choices and then you have to lower a second tax or a top rate, but this variant is purely analytical, and connects what all Members of Parliament are saying here. The last two were from the SGP and the Christian Union, but others also said: keep it transparent, and you just exchange the phasing out of all those tax rebates for a build-up of the tariff. How simple can it be? All the countries in the world are doing this. We have abandoned the principle of the fixed working discount. I've been through the introduction under Purple. Those were fixed discounts, transparent, free to spend by the citizens. And at the rate you saw very clearly: if I earn a little more, I'll pay a little more. That is a political choice, of course. But why not go back to that simple system and also a little less cramped?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u72	I don't think it's cramped at all. You just have to choose a system that you think is the best outcome. That is what I have just said: there are no taboos on that. I do think we should be careful that if there is a political majority in favour of a system, we should immediately opt for it, and that we should not do the opposite again two years later. So in general, the best way to do this is to decide all those elements at once. This is often at the beginning of a cabinet period. That is precisely why we have, of course, put those building blocks in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u73	Mr. Vendrik or Mrs. Geerdink, at this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u74	Mr President, I consider this to be a debate on marginal pressure. That's what my question is about, if you'll allow me. In the debate just now between the Secretary of State and Mr Schalk on the tax reduction of the non-working partner and its phasing-out, which started some ten years ago, it was not just about promoting participation in the labour market, but ultimately about economic independence, especially of women. The Netherlands doesn't have a very best track record on that either today. That was the greatest political interest that a majority at the time decided to reduce the tax rebate for the non-working partner. I think that interest is still standing today. I would like to hear that the Secretary of State explicitly confirms this. He is of course very kind to Mr Schalk, but this is a political priority. I hope it will remain at the top of this Secretary of State's agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u75	It is my great intention in life to be nice to everyone, even though I do not always agree with people in substance. This is a discussion that we have had on a number of occasions. This is really the search for balance. On the one hand, you want an active labour market policy and, on the other hand, we recognise Mr Vendrik's points; that is also very important, and we know that this is and will continue to be so, and at the same time Mr Schalk has a point when he says that there are people who cannot choose it because of their family situation. I got a very nice book about that from the SP once. This is about people who could not choose to work with two partners, who wondered why they would have so much less of their income of €40,000 than in a situation where two partners work. That's a principle of standing that I have feelings about. It is therefore not the case that I agree with Mr Vendrik and therefore disagree with Mr Schalk. I think both elements are important. That is exactly why I say that we can all agree that the marginal pressure on some points is too high, but that it requires political choices to adapt it. I am trying to find a middle ground between Mr Vendrik's idea on one side and Mr Schalk's idea on the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u76	That was just an interesting discussion, particularly because Mr Crone advocated a number of things in a general sense, which, as you understand, the VVD absolutely does not agree with. That is also why I explicitly asked you to interpret your image of the living wave system as I told you in such beautiful English. That is not so much the high rate, but rather a lower rate, the goal in conjunction with Mr Schalk when I look at Mr Schalk is a sort of 'Maria supplement', to stay for a while in terms of Joseph and Mary, where everyone gets a standard fee. So I guess the system of "everyone a supplement" doesn't work. The difference between working and not working will then be facilitated, not by higher rates, but by lower rates. My question to the Secretary of State is to give him his appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u77	I don't know all the ins and outs of the proposal. I get the idea. Again, through these building blocks, we want to create a system in which you have active labour policies through taxation, and in which you maintain a principle of equality. In my opinion, there is also a list now that might add up to what the fraction of D66 brought in. These are all elements that we need to summarise in a single system. We know that. We also know that if you then look at the system, on the one hand there are people who think it is important to activate it, while others consider a principle of carrying capacity to be very important. I'm scared, and maybe I've also gotten a little bit wise in my more than ten years of working in taxation at the Ministry of Finance that anyone who presents something as an easy solution probably misses one part of the puzzle. That's okay, because you have to keep watching. But to comment on one part, as you did in your maiden speech... It sounds logical and sensible and I think I agree with it, but at the same time we can never fully see what that means for the rest. That is the big game of the tax system. It's all connected. The choice you make on one side of the Chamber has an effect on a measure on the other side of the Chamber. And just those building blocks, I hope, I think, I know, can help us enormously to keep those links between them. That is why it is so important to me that it should not become a political committee, but that it should be a technocratic administrative committee that can simply put the facts next to the story. If we were to consider such a system, what does this mean? What is the trade-off to say it in beautiful Dutch of a choice? That, in my view, is the issue. Every year, and especially at the beginning of a cabinet period, you really have to make choices about that. I am really in favour of that, and as far as I am concerned there are no taboos. I've said that twice before.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u78	To correct two misconceptions and, of course, to remain kind, it was, first of all, not about Mary, but it was indeed about Joseph from the Old Testament. Secondly, on what Mr Vendrik suggested, I would like to remind him that economic independence was obviously a political choice at the time, but that the problems outlined by the Secretary of State in his reply can be found in all political parties, because research has shown that about 20% of all political parties are earners. So we should not just put that in the SGP or in the Christian Union. My question to the Secretary of State on this point is, because it was actually reinforced a little bit here: did I understand him correctly that he indicated that it would eventually be possible for the government to make the phasing-out less rapid than anticipated?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u79	That is not our intention, I said. Only, I also say that it is not a taboo at the end of the day when in August you will see all the figures and developments you have. In any case, I am in the position, and I think the fellow negotiators in August, to see how we can get the purchasing power picture so that all these principles can be taken into account as different views or ways of looking at the August decision-making process. As far as I am concerned, the fiscal instruments, apart from all the execution tests and everything that goes with them, are at our disposal to make a choice. Mr. Chairman. I am not yet on a third of my first block, but that is also because some parts have already been brought up a bit. There were also some more specific questions that I think it would be good to answer. Of course, I run the risk of having another discussion, but let us do it for the sake of completeness. I will start with Mr Ester, who had a question about the gradual reduction of the self-employed deduction and the difference between the employee and the self-employed, on the one hand, and the self-employed and the entrepreneur, on the other. So the self-employed person is actually in between; he has a relationship with both. And how this related to the interim conclusions of the Borstlap Committee. Mr Otten also asked for the reduction of the self-employed deduction, and Mr Frentrop did not ask for it but simply asked for it to be waived. Let's get started. The aim is indeed to reduce the difference in tax treatment between the employee and the self-employed person. This was in line with the conclusions of the discussion paper issued by the Committee on the Regulation of Work, the Borstlap Committee, as well as previous studies, such as IBO Self-employed people without staff 2015 and an OECD country report from 2018 in which the OECD found that the number of self-employed people in the Netherlands has become very high compared to all other countries in the world, and indicated that this has to do with tax facilitation. So yes, with those things in mind, we did indeed want to remove that difference. The self-employed person's allowance applies to the entrepreneur who fulfils the hourly criterion. That's 1225 hours. This can be both a self-employed person and an entrepreneur with staff. Both are then eligible for an employment discount. There was the link with the discussion I had with Mr Van Rooijen earlier, so in choosing this measure we said: yes, but if you want to make this right, at least before we are in the cabinet, we are going to do something with that employment discount. As a result, this measure does not have a negative effect, in any case, but does not have an additional negative effect on the self-employed. Perhaps in order to reassure Mr Frentrop, too, I would point out that, partly as a result of the additional increase in the labour cost, the self-employed are not going to pay more tax than they already do. Then Mr Crone had a question about the Wajong benefits and people who would receive less labour discounts, namely whether that is true and what I am going to do about it. It is true that some people with a Wajong benefit have a lower working income if there is pay dispensation by the employer, an important political discussion as well. As a result, the employment discount may be lower. Wajongers are entitled to a young disabled discount. If they do not work full-time, they often also receive supplementary benefits. This benefit does not count for the employment discount, because it is not an income from work, so that simply does not fit in with the standard. Moreover, the increase in the tax plan led to an increase in the employment discount, which in euros is the same as for labour incomes between 10 000 and 100 000, i.e. a very long, flat line. That is, therefore, about the same level across the whole range in euros. Due to the changes in this Tax Plan, the employment discount will increase over the next three years by €285 for anyone who earns more than €10,000 but not less than €100,000. That's actually the starting point. Incomes below €10,000 are entitled to a part of this €285 additional discount, so the incomes that remain below will then receive a pro rata discount compared to that €285. However, they do not pay income tax. So couldn't you do this some other way, through income tax? Well, no, because in that group, you can see that they're not actually paying income tax anymore. Mr Ester asked about the ambition of marginal pressure and the one and two earners. I think I've had it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u80	It is technically rather complicated, so perhaps it can be explained in writing. But I understand that this brings Wajangers down considerably, because they do not have the advantage of that higher employment discount. I can't see through it right now, so perhaps it is possible that you, of course, also with the Secretary of State for Social Affairs, will give an idea of the situation? Because it would be really bad if this group of people who work in a company that you don't even see on the outside that they're Wajonger get net less than someone who isn't Wajonger. So that's actually breaking from all those different bars to net.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u81	I wonder if that's possible, because not every Wajanger has the same income. So I think that this group, as Mr Crone says, is not fishing out of our system as one group. Depends on how much they make, whether they get pay dispensation or not. So I guess that way, frankly, that's not that easy. But what I can do is ask my officials to say a little more about it in the second term. But I suspect, so off the loose wrist, that's gonna be pretty tricky. I'll get back to you in second term. Mr Crone also asked about the possibilities of doing something about not being able to redeem the tax rebate. Mr Vendrik also had questions about it. He actually found that not all taxpayers could cash in their tax rebates and wondered why the cabinet would not simply lower the rates to meet them. The answer is that it is true that by 2020 a larger proportion of taxpayers will not be able to fully redeem their tax rebate. For example, almost 30% of taxpayers entitled to the general tax rebate will no longer be able to fully redeem this discount by 2020. These people no longer pay income tax. So they would not be able to benefit from a tariff reduction either, I say to Mr Vendrik. So that seemed to be a solution that does nothing, because they already do not pay taxes and we still apply the principle that the tax to be paid cannot be lower than €0. Most of the taxpayers benefit from the increase in the tax rebate in this Tax Plan. It is also the case that it is becoming increasingly difficult to reach the low-income workers with the increases in the tax rebate in general; indeed, we have seen this before. For this purpose, of course, a specific fiscal instrument is becoming less suitable for the coming years. This too is a part of which I think it is a good thing that it will also be mentioned in the building blocks, because this is a political discussion that we have had several times back, that people's income is going to be so low that we can no longer reach them with a tax reduction because they do not pay. And if they were, even those tax rebates are no longer cashable by them. Then Mr Van Rooijen had another question about the tax reduction for workers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u82	This is somewhat unsatisfactory. This is also an issue that we have been pursuing for years. So I note that next year the problem is going to be much bigger. The modest increase in purchasing power which Mr Van Apeldoorn referred to earlier also has to do with the effect that the higher general reduction in taxes and the higher reduction in working hours will no longer reach the low-income group. After so many years of discussion, we would then have to take the step forward, because this discussion has been going on for 20 years, if we want to reach that group, that we really will open up a new perspective. Whether discounts can be cashed, or via a different route. Does the Secretary of State wish to take this political decision?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u83	It is exactly as Mr Vendrik said: this debate has been going on for two to three decades. The starting point is that the tax does not pass through zero. We're not going to charge any negative taxes. So we're not paying taxes. Let me say this separately from the supplement section that we will be discussing later. If people do not have to pay taxes, a tax discount is worth nothing. It's a discount on something you don't pay. By definition, that's what's going around. If you want to take a measure at the bottom of the income building that someone is enjoying, then you should stop thinking about tax regulations. That's exactly what I just said. As long as we continue to look for fiscal measures for that purpose, the answer is always that they are no longer effective. You need to see if we can't choose another system. We will soon get to the system that we opted for a year or fifteen ago, i.e. charges that are separate from taxation. Those choices are really not going to be made here one afternoon. These are super-structural choices in the way we build our tax system with surcharges. Hopefully the ibo will provide us with building blocks that we have something to hold on to. In all honesty, I must say that the idea that we can build a new system with some thought this afternoon is not reasonable. It is a fundamental problem that I too want a solution to. It would also be unfair to people's expectations to pretend here that I already have a system or that I can offer it quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u84	Suppose next year the cabinet finds itself in a similar situation. This year it's about 300 million. That's serious money. As a result, the cash-in problem is getting bigger. If it happens again next year, history repeats itself. Should we have a new proposal from the cabinet to do something about this or are we going to postpone it again?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u85	Mr Vendrik pretends that we are not doing anything about it. At the beginning of this debate, I said that we are trying to look at the overall picture in August. The moment you see that a particular fiscal instrument no longer delivers what you want, you will have to look for something else. For my part, I agree with many of the people here. You can try to make up all kinds of new tax buttons for taxes that are not already paid, but then you get an even more complicated system that really nobody has any idea. We are also talking about further increasing marginal pressure. That's a price we'd have to pay for that. I'm really wondering if I should. I do agree with Mr Vendrik that there is this problem. It's been around for a while. Only guts and political choices can offer a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u86	I would ask the Secretary of State to look at the British system. This has a personal allowance of 12,500 pounds, which is more than €15,000, which is not subject to tax. I think there is also a correction mechanism. If people make a lot of money, they have to pay taxes on the allowance afterwards. That's gonna straighten things out a little bit. This means that tens of millions of British people have very little to do with the tax authorities. In that system, they are not entitled to pay taxes at all. This is a fairly efficient measure for this complex system. We discussed yesterday that the system is far too complex in terms of implementation. People don't understand anything about it anymore, which also inhibits the economy. I really think that the solution should be sought in this direction. How does the Secretary of State view that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u87	Kind of like I said in the direction of Mrs Geerdink. I will not claim that I can completely oversee all the ins and outs of the English system, but is really a different system. You can't transfer one element from that system to our system. It's a system based on some sort of basic income-like idea. You get money without a tax on it. If we wanted such a system, it would require political choices and political majorities. We all agree that the current system is definitely in need of a major renovation. We must also have the courage to talk about the elements put forward by Mr Otten if we want to build a better system. I made a promise to Mr Van Rooijen. I would like to address the question of whether there is tax age discrimination. He had a suggestion about this in connection with the reduction in working hours and the tax reduction that workers receive but older people do not. Before I get a question about that, it is good to say that labour market policy has different arrangements that are different for different types of households. I refer to high-income and low-income households, workers and non-workers, families and families without children. It's a little faint, but this does indicate that you can't easily compare everything with each other. People above retirement age get AOW. People who have not yet reached this age do not receive this benefit. People with children can benefit from child regulation and people without children cannot. People who work can get a job discount. People who don't, they don't. You could say that it is a conscious choice to treat different groups differently. But I do not think it is right to call this tax age discrimination. Let me give you an example. I call an income of €35,000. As an older person with that income, you only pay 19,45% in taxes and contributions. If you have exactly the same income, but you haven't reached retirement age yet, you pay 37,35% in taxes and contributions, according to the first disc. A worker who earns €35,000 is entitled to a maximum employment discount and pays, after deduction of all discounts, ultimately €7,300 in taxes and social security contributions. An older person with exactly that same income only pays €4,200. You need to be careful with this. People could keep the exact same story the other way around. Someone with the same income and a certain age pays far less taxes than I do, and is that right? Yes, it is true that a cabinet always makes choices and that tax measures sometimes focus on age and the composition of the family and so on. But to speak of age discrimination, I do not think it is entirely right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u88	Let me make a point of order. I have four coins to suspend for lunch, and I will. I now give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u89	Thank you, Mr President. I came forward because, before I went into the State Secretary's response on age discrimination, I wanted to say something about the silvering-up, in addition to Mr Vendrik. We will come back to that later in the debate or else some other time. The figures of the Secretary of State also showed that the problem of cashing out, particularly in the case of the general tax rebate combined with the old-age discount, is relatively large. In other words, the problem of cashing is also a relatively serious problem for the elderly. That's a little ahead of time. We will be very concerned about this subject in the coming years. I received more than a hundred pages of reply from the then Secretary of State who then said that my officials are almost dead under the Christmas tree in the Tax Plan of a few years ago in this Chamber. I will not, of course, repeat that. All those sums were made then. Also in the written procedure I have dozens of pages with tables... I'm apparently the only one interested in facts and figures. No criticism of colleagues, but I like facts and figures. It is true that because older people do not pay an AOW contribution, they are, on balance, lower with taxes and contributions. But you are forgetting about this, and you know very well that this is important, that the AOW is a public insurance policy. This means that you pay an annuity premium until the AOW enters and then you get an AOW benefit. Then, of course, you have to say that older people receiving AOW do not pay an AOW premium anymore and that this is not entirely true because they are going to pay less on balance than before as a working person. That is why we can give workers a working discount of €4,000 which, of course, we do not give to those who are no longer employed. In other words, you should not bring in the AOW premium. The Prime Minister does the same in the case of the reduction in working hours, and you are doing so now in the case of age discrimination. The AOW is a public insurance policy. I do know that there are a number of parties and groups who believe that it should disappear, especially on the left, and that the AOW should simply be paid out of taxes. You know what happens then. Then it'll be a welfare allowance and I'll be sure I won't get an AOW in the future. That Van Rooijen is in the First Chamber and is honored for it, although it is three times less than on the other side. I'd be happy to make that sacrifice. So that has nothing to do with it. The AOW is a public insurance and is independent of taxation. You should not defend an employment discount of €4,000 that the elderly do not get.... who get a tip... by saying "yes, but you no longer pay an AOW premium." The issue of tax age discrimination weighs so much for us that my group in the House of Representatives has said that age discrimination should be included in a constitutional revision if there is to be a clause on discrimination. It is simply certain that because of the fact that the AOW is a public insurance, the elderly pay far more taxes than the workers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-eerstekamer-3.u90	Mr Van Rooijen, you have spoken for four minutes. It's exactly 12:30. So we're gonna suspend. Thank you for your announcements. I'm suspending the meeting for lunch until 1:30 p.m. Then we get hammer pieces and votes before we continue with the answer of the Secretary of State.
