ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u1	At present, the Re-evaluation Act is the subject of current forms of criminal offence, Office 35080. A warm welcome to the Minister for Security and Justice. Thank you for joining us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u2	Justice and security!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u3	Justice and Security. Didn't I say that? Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh,
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u4	We have nine speakers from the Chamber. The first speaker is in the file, and then the first will be the last. That is why we are now going to listen to Mr Van Nispen of the SP Group. He has ten minutes' speaking time. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The law on criminalisation of current forms of crime is in fact a collective law covering all kinds of different subjects, such as hate-sowing, child abuse, revenge porn, criminal organizations and the obstruction of aid workers. That raises the question of what kind of debate this is going to be. It's about all kinds of different topics. The question I would like to ask the Minister is: does such a law actually deserve the beauty prize? The aim of this bill can very much support the SP, namely to improve safety in the Netherlands. But as far as the SP is concerned, this mainly means that the government ensures that there is sufficient capacity in the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the courts to solve cases, punish perpetrators and ensure justice for the victims. Those are things that are all out of order right now. I am not saying that for the first time, but that is bad for people's trust in the rule of law. This bill does not really change that observation. This bill does provide for a higher maximum penalty for a number of types of crime. And although this higher penalty is desirable for some crimes, and a signal can also be sent to society that certain crimes can be severely punished, it is a pity that the emphasis of this government seems to be on this rather easy road. Because it looks tough to raise the punishments and, again, that's in place here and there. But changing the maximum sentence is just easy. You shine action and you change a grade into the law, and you're done. It is much more difficult, but also more important, to ensure that the criminal justice chain can function optimally. Now we have heard recently that the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary are going to get money. Is this message correct? It would be very appropriate. When are we gonna hear more about that? How much money are we talking about? Will the Dutch Forensic Institute also receive money? Does the social attorney get any money? They are all part of the criminal justice chain, which we consider so important. And where will all this money be taken from? Then there is the increase in penalties. In Article 137d, inciting violence, hatred or discrimination is punishable. This crime has a maximum sentence of one year. This bill will double this ceiling. This sounds nice, but in the written round the SP has already asked for the need for this increase. I would like to do that again now, because in the last ten years, the highest sentence imposed on this crime by the judge was 180 days in prison, and there are no examples of judges who would have liked to give more punishment than is already possible. In short, we do not know of any examples of judges who are already colliding with that ceiling that we now have and that we are going to double. Wouldn't it be wiser, instead of just focusing on an increase in that maximum sentence, to look more at increasing the chance of getting caught? Isn't that much the problem anymore? This can be done, for example, by addressing websites in their role in monitoring messages that induce violence, hatred or discrimination, or by denying people access to a site if it appears that they have been guilty of posting such messages. Are these messages always being sent to the police so that they can work on the case? And does the police have sufficient capacity to actually make a case out of it? In other words, is there enough going on in this area? I'd like to have an extensive reflection from the Minister. I'm going to a whole different area now, Mr. Chairman. I told you, it's a bit of a heel on the branch, but that's inherent in this bill with all these different topics. That's the undermining crime. That is absolutely a very big problem. With this bill, the government wants to increase the penalty limits for the trade and possession of automatic firearms and for participation in a criminal organisation. I'm not necessarily opposed to that. It does indeed give the judge more opportunities to punish the most serious forms appropriately. Once again, however, the question is whether it is not more important, in addition to increasing the penalty ceilings, to increase the chances of getting more cops and detectives to prevent and detect crime. In addition, the SP believes that we need to invest a lot more on taking crime money, because crime should not pay, and it does now. Isn't that gonna help much? I'd like a response from the Minister. Then there's a point where we can totally find ourselves. Abuse of sexual footage, including revenge porn, is subject to an independent criminalisation with this bill. It is good that this is clarified in the law. Abuse of sexual footage often means that victims have a serious breach of their privacy. In many of these cases it will be spread through websites and social media. Not only can material quickly find its way to a lot of people via these roads, it is also very difficult to get material that is once on the internet off the Internet again. It would therefore be good if the government would pay more attention to the role of Internet service providers and companies such as Facebook, Google and WhatsApp in the fight against sexual footage abuse. Do these companies always follow removal orders? If so, how quickly do they do this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u6	There is a question from Mr Van Wijngaarden.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u7	Mr Van Nispen discusses the abuse of sexual footage. The proposal in the law now comes down to intent. We have an amendment, together with Mr Groothuizen, to make it conditional, so that it is also easier to prosecute people. What is the position of the SP on that amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u8	I am sympathetic to that. I think it is a good proposal, but I have not yet been able to assess the exact legal details of it. I also like to listen to what the Minister thinks, but I think I will advise my group to support it, unless I find myself having legal objections which change my mind. Important in the fight against abuse of sexual footage is the Expertise Bureau Online Child Abuse, the EOKM. This center receives more and more reports of inappropriate footage every year and therefore receives more and more work every year. So the EOKM gets more work, but not more money from the government to do its important work. Can the government guarantee that the EOKM will have sufficient financial resources in the coming years to cope with the increasing number of reports of online sexual abuse? In the written response to a similar question in the preparation of this legal treatment, the Minister wrote that the Expertise Bureau Online Child Abuse receives funding from the European Union, private parties and some municipalities. Why did we even arrange this? Is it not a task of the national government to ensure that this important centre, the EOKM, can do this important work properly? I'd like a response from the Minister. I would like to comment on the grounds of discrimination. Inciting hatred and discrimination or violence against persons for, among other things, their homosexual orientation or heterosexual orientation is punishable. That's what Article 137d says. This term is also used in four other places in the Code of Criminal Law. The question is whether the term "homosexual or heterosexual orientation" is still the correct term. The COC has also pointed this out and whether it should not be replaced by the term "sexual orientation." I think so. It makes it clear that the penal law not only protects homosexuals, but also bisexuals, for example. In short, "sexual orientation" is, I think, a better term. This also introduces the international common term. This discussion also takes place under the General Law on Equal Treatment. A motion was adopted by my colleagues Jasper van Dijk and Mrs Buitenweg. So a majority of the House supports this. In order to settle this also for the Code of Criminal Law, I have tabled an amendment. Mr Groothuizen's amendment that I have co-signed concerns, among other things, chatting tricks. I understand that Mrs Van Toorenburg will also co-sign it. I think that amendment will be explained by Mr Grothuizen. It's just in your apartment that you need to be able to feel safe. Whoever takes advantage of one's trust and tells a smooth story and talks in, deserves a proper punishment. Because if you can't feel safe in your home, it's incredibly bad for the security of a lot of people. I therefore commend that amendment as well. Mr President, that is all I have to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u9	Thank you. Mr Van Wijngaarden from the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u10	Mr. Chairman. Behind all the new pieces of legislation that we are talking about today lies great, profound and deep suffering, which sometimes leaves victims with lifelong consequences. For example, those who are victims of violence, abuse or child abuse sometimes find themselves in a different life forever. People are vulnerable, and that is precisely why they need to be protected from crime. They are also entitled to recompense after suffering. A government that would fail to keep criminal law up to date would also fail to protect people. Bringing criminal law to its time is, fortunately, exactly what the legislative proposal before us is doing. That's what we're happy about as a VVD. We want to congratulate the government on this. I have built up my contribution on the basis of these crimes contained in this bill, which I consider to be necessary for further discussion. I will conclude with a single additional point. I would like to start by thinking about freedom to be yourself in the Netherlands, a freedom that makes the Netherlands and has made it what it is. It is also a freedom which is not self-evident and which must be permanently protected against, for example, hate preachers who believe that freedom of expression is unlimited. Recently we saw an example of this. I also got an empty beer bottle to my head once, because I walked down the street with my friend. Getting a beer bottle to your head is never fun, of course, but certainly not when it's about who you are. It feels different, doesn't it? Inciting hatred and violence is not part of the Netherlands and not part of Europe. If there is one continent that is aware of what can lead to violence, hatred and discrimination, it is Europe. Violence and open discrimination are not natural phenomena that happen to us, but weeds that can only take root in a breeding ground of hatred. Words matter and violent acts are often preceded by violent words. Freedom of religion is not an excuse for hate and calls for violence. That freedom too is not absolute and not unlimited. The border on that freedom is not some frightening taboo. We must, where necessary, have the courage to mark, standardise and enforce them clearly. The law applies to everyone, including servants of a religion. The VVD doesn't allow freedom of speech to be abused for hate speech. It is therefore right that the government should increase the penalty limits for inciting hatred, violence and discrimination. As Mr Van Nispen said, raising penalties in the law is one thing, but maintaining and imposing sanctions in practice is something else. The VVD therefore wants to see the Public Prosecutor's Office in the fifth acceleration in prosecuting hate-songists, with as active a prosecution policy as possible. In some countries you may be allowed to paint swastikas by appealing to freedom of expression or to shout that all homosexuals should be stoned; in the Netherlands you should not be stoned. Article 1 of the Constitution is as hard for the VVD as the granite in which it is chiseled in front of the House of Representatives. The VVD therefore asks the cabinet what scope it sees for even more premature and more active enforcement of the ban on inciting violence, hatred and discrimination. The reaction of this minister to a motion by my colleague Arno Rutte and colleague Van der Staaij in JenV's 2018 budget debate showed that there is already an active prosecution policy of the Public Prosecutor, which can actively prosecute extremist preachers' expression offences. The reaction to the motion was: that's standing policy. What is the effect of this standing policy, I ask the Minister. Could the Minister inform the Chamber of this in a numerical sense by letter? Of course, that's okay today, but I can imagine that's gonna take some research. Then there is the question of how early and publicly it becomes known that this apparently already existing active prosecution policy is being used. When a well-known preacher of hate threatens to arrive, can the public at large and at an early stage explain how it will deal with the preacher of hate? What profit is still to be made there? That is actually my question to the Minister. We note that the Public Prosecutor's Office has a task for law and order and we see that public unrest occurs if for too long it remains unclear whether someone with a known undermining and intolerable message is likely to be able to come to the Netherlands. That is the background to my question about the earlyness and openness of the prosecution's active policy of prosecution. Is the Minister prepared, for him entirely out of character, I believe, to go on the goat path towards the prosecution and to discuss this earlyness and openness of the active prosecution policy with the prosecution, and to link it back to the Chamber? Of course, with all due respect for the independent position of the D.A. It is important that it is clear how early the D.A. is dealing with these cases. Then there is another point, which also affects Minister Blok's portfolio. Is the cabinet prepared to include a message on all the English-language websites of the Dutch government aimed at foreigners, such as websites of consulates, embassies and the website of Foreign Affairs itself, with the aim that hate-songists are not welcome in the Netherlands, that freedom of expression in the Netherlands is not unlimited and that hate-songs, discrimination and calls for violence are actively persecuted in the Netherlands? It is nice if these people stay completely away from the Netherlands and, rather, from Europe. The VVD therefore asks what would actually be against being clear about this on websites of the Dutch government that are aimed at non-Dutch visitors. What else is the European agenda of the cabinet on this issue? To what extent is this cabinet working on a European cooperation to ban hate preachers from the European Union or the Schengen area at all, so that they cannot go on a hate-sowing tour? Is there not a coalition of benevolent countries to forge on this point, in order to arrive at a standard common working method? Is the Cabinet prepared to consider whether it is appropriate and appropriate to address this issue in a European context? Then tomorrow, if I'm not mistaken, is the international day against gay, bi-, trans- and intersex phobia. The COC, and, in part, the CIDI, has also sent a letter on behalf of a number of other organisations stating that discrimination based on gender, identity, expression and gender characteristics is prohibited and that the term "hero- or homosexual orientation" is replaced by "sexual orientation" in the criminal law. I would like to ask the Minister to comment on the substance of the matter and to indicate what would be against it. I note that, fortunately, this law already provides for an increase in penalties. As Dutch people, we shouldn't want to offer hate-songers a stage or hospitality, regardless of the amount of dollars or dirhams they bring. Hotels and halls that do are wrong. I hope that they keep their doors closed to these people or cancel bookings, so that it becomes clear that this is a hate preacher.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u11	Mr Van Wijngaarden just asked the Minister how he looked at changing the term "homosexual or heterosexual orientation" in the Code of Criminal Law in the more international "sexual orientation." That is precisely where I have tabled an amendment. There is no doubt that Mr Van Wijngaarden saw this. Previously, the VVD also supported the proposal to make the same amendment to the General Equal Treatment Act. Will Mr Van Wijngaarden and his group also support this proposal today?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u12	I didn't ask for it for nothing, so I'm interested. I am not against it in advance, but it is not just an amendment that is being proposed. We live primarily in a national jurisdiction. So, for the sake of legal care, I would like to see how that falls within the scope of the law and of existing case law. I'll wait for the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u13	I understand that, but it is precisely in these terms that it is not strange to look at what is said in the treaties. Of course, we can make a different decision at national level, if there are good reasons for doing so. But in this case, I do not think that you are trying to change the substance, but rather that the term is outdated or outdated. In the Code of Criminal Law, it is important that it is clear to everyone what it is about, so for example that it is also about bisexuals, pansexuals or asexuals. In my opinion, therefore, the argument of the COC, among other things, is very strong. I hope for enthusiasm from the VVD for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u14	Politically-moral I have no problem with it in advance, but I just want to see if there are any legal pitfalls. I can't judge that so quickly. If your sexual orientation is recorded, I say, playing devil's lawyer: there are also forms of sexual orientation that we do not want. So they're out of here. In that respect, I would really like to hear what the Minister has to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u15	It is a good thing that Mr Van Wijngaarden raises that point, because of course I have also thought about it and have been advised on it. Forms of sexual orientation which are prohibited, for very good reasons, are obviously not covered by that protection. As far as I know, this does not cause problems in all the other countries either. It is good to make this point, but let us also ask the Minister for a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u16	Good. That came to my mind, but it's nice that we took that care away right away. How does the Minister support municipalities that want to ward off hate-songs with the use of knowledge and expertise on the border of freedom of expression, which is present in the Ministry, but which is not self-evident at every town hall of a place where, for example, a hate-preacher wants to come? Then I come to the shameful occupation of a stable by animal extremists in Boxtel. By the way, I still have doubts between the terms 'animal extreme' and 'animal terrorist'. A terrorist is someone who wants to scare fear into imposing his ideas and does not shy away from violence. That's exactly what these people have done. They have violently gained access to the property of someone else, i.e. they have committed a local trespass. They may have infected animals, which may have to be disposed of, or killed. They have terrified a family with children and their surroundings and, for their part, held them hostage for ten hours. All this is done by these people from a moral plateau, which gives them the feeling that they can decide for themselves what is right and wrong. In a rule of law, however, the law rules, not the supposed moral right. Farmers live more and more in fear, dare not speak anymore on social media and are afraid of a stone through the window or an unwanted person in the stable, read in the petition of Agricultural Defense inspects news. Let's anticipate that petition, which will probably get a lot of signatures, already as a room see what we can do. It is also good that the Minister visits the affected farmers' family. I hope they get all the help and assistance they need. Does the law as far as the Minister is concerned now meet to tackle this kind of dangerous and terrifying animal extremism? This case is still under investigation, but to what extent is the law now sufficiently clear on the point that the right to demonstration is limited and does not mean that you may occupy, destroy and endanger the property of another person? Although it is not legally permitted, it is humanly understandable that the neighbors of the victims of the animal activists were angry and put the occupiers' cars on their side. Explica non iustifica, but self-direction does provoke direction. And that is precisely why the police must try to get ahead of another action by animal extremists, and then act quickly and decisively. The international action group has already announced new actions and is well organised. That raises the question for my group: does the national police have enough expertise to quickly detect and prosecute animal extremists? What is the Minister's position on the idea of a national centre of expertise to combat animal extremism?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u17	I would like to ask the VVD to apply one nuance: we do not know if the neighbors have put the cars aside. I was there and I can't confirm that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u18	Thank you for this comment. I think this is very good for the sake of care, because it is not the intention to point this out to anyone. At least it seemed to be people from the area. I'm sure it happened, but I think it's a good comment. Thank you for that. Then there's the expertise. Is this expertise sufficient, or could such a centre help detect and prosecute the intruders, who dare to call themselves activists, of the inheritance of a farming family? How clever is it, by the way, that some foreign extremists were outside again in no time and were welcomed with music and running cameras, and then left abroad again? Is there another evaluation of this? Is that evaluation coming to the Chamber? How many requests for legal aid have been made to the countries from which these people come? The VVD also wants a letter in which the cabinet discusses the current approach to animal extremism. Can the Minister undertake such a letter and comment on whether he sees a need to step up existing policies? Mr. Chairman. I come to the abuse of sexual footage. That is punishable by this law. What's private must remain private. Your sex life is yours and nobody else's business. Victims of revenge porn are often completely out of control for a long time. They can also become more suspicious in future relationships. If someone places or shares a sex movie of someone else online without permission via a smartphone, it is always hurtful and detrimental to that other person. That's not higher math either. The VVD therefore comes together with D66 with an amendment that makes it easier than in the present bill to prosecute revenge porn. This means that instead of intent, conditional intent is sufficient for criminality. If there is a set-up and there is a clear plan, this is also a reason for the maximum or at least the highest possible penalty of up to two years as far as the VVD is concerned. By the way, it is still the question of how to deal with internet forums that make happy money from this kind of content. What kind of responsibility do they have, if it is up to the Minister? Can they also be dealt with criminally or otherwise? If not, why wasn't this included in this bill? The right must be fully respected on the Internet. Mr. Chairman. It is good that this law extends the criminal liability of participating in seriously undermining criminal organisations and liquidation violence. Along with Mrs Kuik's own-initiative proposal. and the bill on Minister Dekker's 2:20 BW that we hope to receive as a Chamber, we need to come up with an ever closer approach to this type of organisation. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come to child abuse. This will be more severely punished and the limitation period will be extended. But why is there even a limitation period? Whoever hits a child kills love. As far as the VVD is concerned, there should be no limitation period at all. I would like to hear the Minister's response on this point. Mr. Chairman. As the last current crime scene, I'd like to discuss the obstruction of aid workers. It's a good thing this is a criminal offence. It should be normal for aid workers not to be hindered, but to be offered assistance. Let's all try to help them and not hinder them. Thanks to bodycams and other cameras, it can hopefully become easier to maintain this new standard. Does the Minister share that assessment? Those who try to inflict violence on aid workers will soon not be able to get away with community service thanks to the VVD and other parties. I would also like people who help and assist aid workers to receive recognition and appreciation for this. I would ask the Cabinet to make extra work of that. How's this going? Or does that differ from municipality to municipality? I also wonder whether police officers who are victims of violence, but who are reluctant to report themselves, can once again be reminded that their employer can also report on their behalf. Did I correctly understand that this is already possible? And if so, is the Minister prepared to make that possibility more explicit to all current and new agents? Is this possibility also available for boas? If so, can the Minister undertake the same for them? Mr. Chairman. I would also like to mention that I have tabled the amendment I tabled with Mrs Buitenweg concerning illegal religious marriages, in the case of Chambers 35080, part No. 9, please withdraw from this law, and will revive it together with Mrs Buitenweg by Minister Dekker's law on marital imprisonment. That seems a bit more logical to me. I would like to receive an appreciation of this amendment, which sets a clearer standard with regard to the conclusion of religious marriages which are contrary to Dutch law and constitute a clearer mark of the limit of freedom of religion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u19	The Van Wijngaarden/Buitenweg amendment (Doc. 9) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u20	Finally, Mr President. I have another question that has been put to me from the criminal law attorney's office. It's about applying for a dog. This can now only be done at the request of a potential new employer. But the person concerned, the person concerned or the person whose behaviour it is, cannot do so without a letter from the employer, I understand. My question is: why should we not just make that possible, as long as someone indicates what purpose he wants to apply for a vog? In this way, the applicant can get an idea of his or her chances on the labour market and his or her vog status. It is also a sensitive personal information, so it is also a bit strange that someone should not be allowed to apply for such a data without an employer's letter. How does the Minister see this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u21	Thank you. Then Mrs Buitenweg from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is indeed a very multifaceted bill. In that respect, I agree with Mr Van Nispen that you can ask the question whether this is the best way to deal with it all. At the same time, there are many issues on which we would like to make a slight change. So we will now have to do with the fact that we are discussing various subjects from the heels of the branch. The proposal contains a great deal of what I can agree with. I also know that a number of controversial cases have been taken out, such as the pimp ban. We ourselves have just withdrawn an amendment on religious marriages that are concluded prior to civil marriages. But that is not for long, because we will come back to this subject later. There is a lot left, for example the new criminalisation in obstructing aid workers. It is very important that this is addressed. There is also an approach to the abuse of sexual footage, both that which has been unlawfully obtained and that which has been lawfully obtained, namely sexually tinted imagery which has been exchanged in a proportion but is abused after the end of the relationship. It is good that there is real attention to that now and that there is a clear hook in the law to prosecute people for that too. It is important to set that standard so that revenge porn can be dealt with. I find the word "revenge porn" very bad, by the way, because it wasn't pornographic. It was sexually tinted material that wasn't meant to be porn, but was exchanged by young people and then revealed as revenge. The policy of helping young people to defend themselves better, the policy of prevention, comes very light. That is also what the National Rapporteur on Human Trafficking said. I find that worrying and I would like a response from the Minister. I sometimes hear from the Minister a kind of warning to the youth not to make this kind of material. I wonder if that is the best approach, because that is what young people do: they show themselves in a relationship. Then is our answer "don't"? Is that an effective measure? How are we going to get the prevention policy and sexual resilience of young people off the ground? The moment you say "don't do it," it almost seems like it's your own fault that it does. That's what's bothering me. How do you deal with that? The blame must lie, also in the eyes of society, with those who reveal material that was not intended for public access. That's what's shameful, not the fact that you showed yourself to each other. There are also several proposals for the...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u23	Mr Van Wijngaarden has another question on the previous point. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u24	I do have a question about the responsibility of internet forums that make money on ads and so on. How does GroenLinks feel about their responsibility?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u25	I have the feeling that the necessary work is already being done in this area. I congratulate the Minister for that. I see that he has taken various actions in this regard, particularly with regard to the Internet forums with which agreements are to be made. Of course, there are also groups with which that is very difficult. We must, of course, step up our efforts to this end. I have the feeling that a great deal of policy needs to be translated into practice. I believe that things should be removed from the Internet within an hour. The Ministry made that proposal. That's good, but I'm wondering if that's going to happen now. In any case, I am more concerned about implementation than about whether it has been properly agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u26	I fully agree with that, also with the compliments for the Minister's commitment on this point. Shouldn't we just let the fora that shun that responsibility just go black?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u27	I would very much like to hear from the Minister what further proposals he has in mind. I'm not quite sure how you see it: blackmailing Internet forums. I think that's a little rough. If no action is taken, action must be taken on the basis of cases where no action has been taken. I'm not sure exactly who you want to blackmail. I think it's a bit too easy of a point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u28	You mean anyone who wants to blackmail Mr Van Wijngaarden.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u29	For example, I mention a forum that places images of children or images of people you know are made without their permission. So it is precisely the kind of footage that we are criminalising today. I do not think we are going to get out of it today, but I believe we do share the view that we have not yet found the legal basis to address that problem. That is an assignment that remains for this minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u30	I think there's an incredible amount to be done anyway. We discussed it yesterday, I think, at Question Time, how incredibly important it is that such information is removed very quickly. I believe that Mr Van Nispen also mentioned a mother who had already indicated a few times that an image of her son was still circulating and how terrible it is to be confronted with it over and over again. There are already possibilities to detect these images and indeed to remove them from the Internet. We've talked about that before. The point is that this is how it is done in practice. It is incredibly important, also for processing, that the image is off, which gives you some control over your life. Of course, that grip was taken away. I think it is very important that the image can be removed from the Internet. On many of the things we are discussing today, I say: it is absolutely good; I can agree with it. But my general problem is: what are we doing with the D.A. and with the police to make sure that what can't happen, doesn't happen or that it's being handled? Then I come to raising the penalty limits. I agree with a great deal of that, too. One of the points I want to highlight is the inciting of hatred and discrimination, Article 137d. The maximum penalty will be doubled. I think that's very good. The Minister's motivation is: discrimination is a very serious problem; it is a major social problem. I couldn't agree more. There are many people who are discriminated against and whose lives and safety are also severely harmed. There is also a lot of harassment. It seems that the cabinet wants to set a standard. That's very important. But the question is: why then only the doubling in inciting hatred? Why isn't it much more general? That is also a request from, among other things, the COC, which we had received by letter. I can imagine. Just when you say that the motivation is to set a standard and that we find it really unacceptable, why is it not proposed in more articles? Mr. Chairman. The question then arises as to how much protection there is through those articles against discrimination based on gender identity, gender expression and gender characteristics. It is incredibly important that transhumans, intersex people, people who do not feel at home in the hut of man/woman are protected by our legislation. In many articles, that protection is sexed by the ground at the moment. But, for example, in the AWGB, we have explicitly said that basic gender must also be understood as discrimination based on gender identity and gender expression. That's what it says in that law. Is it necessary to make it more explicit here too? Can the Minister respond to that? That brings me to a specific problem, namely that Article 137c does not include gender. I found it remarkable myself to find out. Then it says something like: in the eighties they didn't think it was necessary. Isn't that necessary by now? We've talked about the fact that there's no less misogyny. So isn't it necessary to include the word "sex" anyway? The minister says he sees the point for gender identity and gender expression. He also says that perhaps we should include those specific grounds in Article 137c, and I will look into that. But my point is: if you do it that way and you include the words "gender expression" and "gender identity," what is the consequence of that missing from the other articles? For those other articles are covered by the word "sex." I have the idea that you can get some kind of reasoning a contrario, like: if it is not recorded in those other articles, then it is less protected there. So I would find it curious to include in Article 137c not the word'sex' but a specification and not the other articles. So I'd like some coherence there anyway. Just a few more comments. One concerns Mr Van Nispen's proposal to replace "gay and heterosexual orientation" with "sexual orientation." I have sometimes suggested this with other colleagues, and it seems to me quite right; it is also in line with international case law. I have been thinking about whether we should also add an article on hate crimes here. But I thought: then there will be another article, which really requires an independent, good debate. I can tell colleagues that Mr Segers and I are advanced on a legislative proposal that will not be submitted for too long. Then I would like to conclude by saying that I think that doubling the penalty can often be very important, also for setting a standard. So I think that's okay, but I'm afraid we hang on to that a lot. I see more and more proposals. There is only one problem to come or the cabinet says: double the penalty, increase the penalty. While it's very often on the performance. It's often about increasing the chances of getting caught. In this case, in the case of discrimination, it is often also about the treatment of people who report that they are discriminated against and go to the police. It is about strengthening Pink in Blue, it is about ensuring that people who go to the police are treated respectfully, that their application is treated properly and that that leads to prosecution. Otherwise, we are doing a fine job here to raise the standards of punishment and to set a certain standard, but how far does that go if it does not take place in practice? So I really call on the Minister not only to look at doubling and increasing the penalty rate, but also to ensure that in practice there is persecution, so that these fine words really protect those who deserve protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u31	Thank you. Then Mr Van der Staaij of the Political Reformed Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u32	Mr. Chairman. The SGP Group also feels a certain discomfort in its form when preparing this bill, but also has a great deal of sympathy for its content. The inconvenience in form has to do with the fact that it is, disrespectfully said, somewhat a collection of new criminal offences, increases in the level of punishment, increases in criminal liability. On very different subjects, too, although of course they can all be brought under the broader heading of'safety'. However, if you look at what you really want, you would say: of course, the law must always be brought back to its proper place, but you would wish for a more systematic programme. You would like this part of the Code of Criminal Law now to be reviewed again and then that part. In that connection, you should then make adjustments. Mr. Chairman. I understand how it works and how it went. There have been social concerns, from discussions that we also had in the Chamber in all kinds of areas, for example, revenge porn, say: we really need to do something with this now, and we should not wait for that larger project of revising the whole of the sex legislation that is now under discussion. So I will respond positively to the various parts that are being discussed here today. One element has been removed, and the SGP Group regrets that, namely to facilitate illegal prostitution for profit. Of this, the Minister says, and again, I understand the argument that it is logical to include this in another legislative proposal. I myself wonder with some discomfort: how long have we not been talking about the necessary approach to abuses? Does not tackling the abuses in the world of prostitution cause a plan that is also contained in the coalition agreement to be endlessly awaited? I would like to hear from the Minister whether he is working hard to make serious, together with his colleague, the Secretary of State for Justice and Security, with the approach to abuses in prostitution also enshrined in the government agreement, and to speed it up. Mr President, then what is in it. I have already indicated that, as far as we are concerned, there are important issues. These are crimes that have a significant impact on privacy or on society, whether they are home invasion or the spread of sexual footage. That is very different, but it is with that corresponding point of that great impact it has on people. Mr. Chairman. First of all, I am zooming in on that point of tackling revenge porn. We support the explicit criminalisation of this and also Mr Van Wijngaard's amendment to apply it on a conditional basis. But the SGP Group also has the question of how this criminal approach relates to the commitment to, say, the prevention side, the education side. What is being done to prevent people from actually coming up with the idea and finding it normal to go through with this kind of footage? Mr. Chairman. Then there are two other questions about this section. The Advisory Section of the Council of State had made a comment on the term "sexual image." Does this terminology really meet the government's objective of criminalising any private imagery intimately? We have the following concern: if it is a naked photograph without sexual acts in view, you will not have a discussion in court whether this is a sexual image. I would like another comment on this point, for which the Section would like to draw attention. Is this wording really the broader criminalisation of nude photos, for example? Mr. Chairman. Among other things, the VVD called for attention to the internet forums. What about that? The SP Group had asked questions about the Internet service providers. Will the new Article 139a apply to them? Undoubtedly, there are other criminal provisions that oppose non-cooperation in the disclosure of such harmful material. But I would like a further clarification as to what exactly is the scope of having access to and disclosure of sexual material. Does this also apply to service providers on internet forums and similar activities? Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the point of hatred, violence and discrimination. If you look at all the spoils, death threats and expressions that are taking place in this area, I understand the desire and the need to act here and reach a higher level of punishment. At the same time, it should be noted that the highest penalty imposed at this time is only half of the current maximum. A penalty increase is a deterrent effect, the thought. But if that signal is turned off again in six months' time, should we increase that sentence again? In short, you can see that it is also incredibly important in the real deterrent effect of criminal acts to know what the chance of an expression is. Then what is the measure of punishment that is actually imposed? I would like another response from the Minister on that point. In fact, that comes back to my last point, namely participation in criminal organisations. It is right that attention should be paid to this issue and that criminal offences and liability should be carefully considered. But even if you increase the level of punishment there, this means that higher penalties will actually be demanded. What about the odds of getting caught, the detection methods, the ability to deal with this? I would like to take a closer look at this from the Minister. Finally. The provision on emergency workers is amended in relation to the legislative proposal. We think it is good and valuable that there should be a self-criminalisation about obstructing aid workers. The government is now in line with whether or not it is paid. If the government does not fail to do exactly the same work on a voluntary basis, this is another question that I would like to put to you in conclusion. Those were the questions on the part of the SGP Group, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u33	Thank you very much. Then Mr Groothuizen of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u34	Mr. Chairman. Times change and so does the way we look at the criminality of certain behaviors. That is essentially what this bill is about. As a progressive party, D66 is open to change. We are a party that moves along with time and wants to change rules if we see the need to do so. As several colleagues have pointed out, this bill is rather multiple; I would say threefold. Firstly, there are a number of new forms of crime, such as revenge porn or obstruction of aid workers, which deserve to be mentioned in our Code of Criminal Law. Secondly, in the case of a number of existing offences, penalties are increased. Thirdly, on a number of minor technical points, the text of the legislation is being brought up to date, for example in the case of child abuse or qualified theft. Mr. Chairman. D66 is in principle in favour of this bill. I won't go into all the parts. I think colleagues have already thought about this in detail. I do focus on a number of parts that I think are important. First of all, I have a few relative remarks, and I actually agree with Mr Van Nispen. I understand that increasing maximum punishment can send a signal to society. Some forms of behavior are really not acceptable. Some forms of behavior we've come to appreciate more. This should therefore be reflected in our Code of Criminal Law. But we must remain real. The aim of the bill is called making the Netherlands safer, but does raising maximum penalties really make the Netherlands much safer? In any case, science is rather sceptical about this. It will, I think, also often depend on the type of crime. Criminality with more reasoning is likely to be deterred by a higher penalty limit than crime that is more likely to be committed. The reality is, I think, that a lot of people are not necessarily deterred by a higher penalty limit. What does work terrifyingly is to increase the chance of getting caught. As far as I am concerned, this is an important task for the cabinet. It's partly a capacity problem. It is therefore also a good thing that this cabinet is using more resources in the police and also in the Public Prosecutor's Office. I welcome a motion that was unanimously adopted by this Chamber earlier this week. The low chance of getting caught is also a quality problem. As I said at the beginning: changing times and that requires another way to track down, not only another way to punish, but also another, smarter way to catch crooks. In particular, I would like to encourage the Minister to speed up these aspects. I think there is an important challenge here. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the proposal to criminalise the abuse of sexual footage such as revenge porn on its own. I think that's a good proposal. Nowadays we almost all walk around with a smartphone. Movies are made in no time and can be shared in group apps or on internet sites within seconds. This ensures that intimate sexually tinted material can be easily obtained and distributed. Unfortunately, this happens regularly, even without the person depicted wanting to. Sometimes that person doesn't even know that footage was made. Images are secretly made and put on the Internet. We all know those cases. It is a serious breach of privacy that has a huge impact on the victims. As you know, D66 has long been a defender of privacy. As far as I am concerned, the proposal shows that the cabinet takes online privacy and security seriously, and I am very pleased with that. That is an extremely good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u35	D66, of course, stands for much more, like Mr Verhoeven, who always defends fervent internet freedom. How does that relate to internet forums that do not take up their own responsibility to ward off this kind of material and which actually continue to do so joyfully, also a little by appealing to that Internet freedom? As before, I am looking a bit for the relativisation of that Internet freedom for that kind of fora. How does Mr Groothuizen view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u36	I believe that Mr Van Wijngaarden had an interrupting debate on this with Mrs Buitenweg. I have a bit of the same hesitation as Mrs Buitenweg. I think we all agree that we do not want certain footage to be thrown into fora and shared, for example when it comes to children or other secretly made sexual material. If people can be dealt with under criminal law, then we have to do it. But we also know it's very complex. At the same time, I would also like to avoid a situation where we are closing too wide parts of the Internet. If you ask me exactly where the border is, I am afraid to tell you. We also have discussions about this in another context. How can we tackle criminal, administrative and possibly private providers? There's a certain limit. As far as I am concerned, there is absolutely no question of taking images offline at some point or of tackling providers who do not follow the rules harder. But if you ask me to say in general 'here and here', I can't do that right now. I find that too complex and too abstract.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u37	I understand. We must continue to debate this, but it is good to hear that at least we can talk about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u38	Sure. I think it is clear that the Internet is also a tool that sometimes very annoying things happen to. It's a nice tool that makes it possible to get a lot of information and share a lot of information, but it's not all great what's happening. You need to take a serious look at that. You must always strike a balance between freedoms, which are very important to us, and the fight against crime. In that sense, the Internet world is no different from the non-digital world. Mr. Chairman. I will stick to the protection of privacy, because the place where protection is perhaps the most obvious is at home. Nothing is as safe as home, at least it should be. Unfortunately, there are people who don't care, who can enter your house and steal valuables, anything they can find. This doesn't just happen by tapping a window or by climbing in through a light. We regularly see people giving access to a home by ringing the doorbell and talking in through a chat or a chat story. Often it is vulnerable elderly people who are the victims of this. I am happy to say, together with Mr Van Nispen and Mrs Van Toorenburg, that this kind of theft goes beyond normal theft. However, only part of such scam methods can currently be punished more severely than normal theft. On the basis of the current text, criminal action can now only be taken if there is some kind of false uniform. If someone talks their way in with other lies or a blabbermouth trick, they can't. It's possible for a crook in a fake uniform, but a con man who says he wants to make a phone call or collect it would spring from that dance. I find that strange, especially since this often affects vulnerable elderly people, as I said. That is why, together with Mr Van Nispen, I have tabled an amendment, which has now also been supported by Mrs Van Toorenburg, to amend it, so that we can bring the Code of Criminal Law into line on this point. Moreover, I made a technical mistake in that amendment. I saw that I scraped the part "destined for sleep" one more time, while that was already in the bill. I've been a little overexcited. That mistake is entirely up to me. I will ensure that this is corrected in an amended amendment. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I have two questions for the Minister of Justice, which touch indirectly on this bill. Firstly, there is a frequent occurrence of a hand grenade being planted at catering establishments. Mrs Van Toorenburg has tabled an amendment on this issue, which I wholeheartedly support. There is a suspicion that this sometimes happens to eliminate a competitor. The mayor will often close a case after finding such a thing. I can imagine that, because you want to prevent accidents and dangerous situations from happening. But it may also be the case that criminals are encouraged in this way, because what they want, namely the elimination of the competitor, is right. I understand this is complex matter. I've asked questions about this before. I would like to ask the Minister to look seriously at this issue, whether or not in consultation with the VNG, to see if we can't bring something more nuance into this, so that we can ensure security, but in this way we don't help criminals who want to eliminate a competitor. Mr. Chairman. Secondly, many colleagues have already mentioned the question of the concepts of'sex' and 'gender identity'. I'm doing the same thing. Article 137c of the EC Treaty, which is not part of this proposal, does not contain the concept of "sex." An investigation is under way; that has happened several times. I understand that research focuses on gender expression and gender identity. But would it not be wise to look again in this ongoing study to see whether the concept of "sex" itself and gender characteristics could be included, so that we can talk about it more broadly at a later date? I'd like a response from the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u39	Thank you. Then Mrs Van Toorenburg of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u40	Thank you, Mr President. Let me be clear right away: the CDA embraces this bill. It provides for several increases in penalties and introduces a number of new offences. That is all very necessary, whether it is about increasing the liability for child abuse, which is going to be wider than just the family; it is also going to apply to children you have been given care for, or to increase the maximum penalty for inciting violence, hatred and discrimination, which several Members have already spoken about. It is therefore also very important to stress here that this cabinet and a large majority of the Chamber stand alongside those who are victims, to clearly indicate where the border lies and how we deal with each other in this country. The bill also introduces the ban on revenge porn. In addition, there is the increase in liability for participation in seriously undermining organisations and the increase in the penalty ceiling for theft in a house during the day. These are all very important proposals. The observant listener will notice that I have not yet spoken about doubling the penalty ceiling for possession and use of fully automatic weapons and the self-criminalisation of the obstruction of aid workers, but that is because I will be discussing this in detail later. There is much to discuss, because there is much in this proposal. I'm making a selection. First of all, the ban on revenge porn. My group's desire to make this self-criminal is fulfilled. It will only happen to you that images made in the privacy of your own home, with yourself or with your partner, suddenly appear online. We all remember the grief of Chantal, who had to fight Facebook, and the struggle that Patricia Paay had to wage in order to end the suffering. Sometimes there's a threat to it, too. We have also had debates on this. Then there comes a message that they're going to send the footage to your family or your friends if you don't do what an extortionist says for example. It drives people to despair. It drives kids to suicide. It's really something we need to limit. That's what the Cabinet does here. It's a terrible invasion of your privacy that makes you feel unsafe in your own private sphere, in your own home, in your own bedroom. The same goes for being filmed secretly in places where you can trust that it doesn't happen, such as in saunas and changing rooms. It is good that it is now being introduced into criminal law in the articles of law that a criminal offence is attached to it. I do have a few questions. Of course, it's always a little complicated. I can tell you that I had all kinds of questions about this when I discussed this with my group. Then it was rightly said: "We also have grooming, don't we? How does this relate to grooming? And how does this relate to sextortion?" There are a number of these types of crimes. We are really looking for ways to bring sexuality and the abuse that is being made of that vulnerability into our Code of Criminal Law. Perhaps it is good, especially for the law we are discussing today, to clarify how one relates to the other. Can the creators and the divisors with these legislative proposals also be prosecuted in the future? Is an extra handle really going to be added? Maybe it's okay if the Minister takes that up. I am thinking, for example, of those peeping sites. Can people who take part in such disgusting practices be prosecuted and convicted, perhaps even for committing these crimes in an organised context? So I also mean people who only look, but do not share or produce themselves. They are, however, an essential part of those closed groups. Can they be prosecuted, too? It's very good that an entire school class is coming in now, because I'm actually talking about them in the next part. How are we going to ensure that students are even better informed that secretly filming or sending sexual footage is explicitly punishable? The unwanted sharing of these images is very common in the age category of the young people entering. Many young people think that sharing a picture of each other is actually innocent, but it's not. It happens sometimes out of bravado, because young people don't realize that they might be able to get rubbing on a not nauseous crime. So I ask the Minister how we can ensure that in schools too young people really know what we have criminalized and where in our society the boundaries lie. I also ask the Minister how he will ensure that we pay extra attention to the victims. In the past there has been a lot of complaints about this, because victims quickly got the feeling that they were actually a bit guilty themselves and that they had actually worked with it: aren't you just a loser because there are images of you on the Internet? How are we going to make sure that victims really know how to protect themselves? Mr. Chairman. I said at the beginning that this is a comprehensive proposal with a wide range of issues, but I have a few more things to add. I have tabled two amendments. The first notes that it is very difficult to get an organisation banned when you are still in a phase of appeal and appeal. That is what we see, for example, when criminalising motorcycle gangs. This is an important initiative proposal, of which Mrs Kuik is the initiator in the first instance and which we all participate in. In a large group we try to solve this by administrative means. But we were actually pretty quick to realize that there is something else we could solve. In Article 140, that is to say, in dealing with these criminal organisations, there is still a phaser, which means that you can only really act when the ban is irrevocable. Shouldn't you be fixing that? We have tabled an amendment on this, but we do have some doubts as to whether this is the best place to do so. Should we do that here? Should we do that with the bill relating to the criminal motorcycle gangs, of which we are the initiator? Or perhaps it will fit better with a law the cabinet is working on to extend Article 2:20?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u41	I read Mrs Van Toorenburg's amendment and I want to make sure that I have understood it correctly. I understand in this way that she says that there may be proceedings before civil courts to declare a particular legal person to be a prohibited organisation and that we have a criminal case against an individual for membership of that organisation, where we do not yet know exactly how it ends. Mrs Van Toorenburg then says: do not wait for the irreconcilability in that first case before condemning someone in the second case. I see Mrs Van Toorenburg nodding, so I understand that this is the right interpretation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u42	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u43	Doesn't that have a major disadvantage that you may be judging people for membership of an organization that later turns out not to be prohibited?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u44	Yes. The explanatory statement also states that this can be done and that a solution must therefore be found. That could be in the form of compensation. It will always be the case that the nature of the organisation is taken into account, but this is precisely the dilemma. That dilemma is being considered in the case of other criminal offences that the cabinet is working on. We also have that dilemma with the criminal motorcycle gangs. That is why we have proposed this administrative instrument to the Chamber in this way. There is therefore a hesitation on these points. We have an amendment and we would like the appreciation of the cabinet. I seriously believe that we are going to withdraw this amendment, and that is what you may be assuming, but we are looking for ways to ensure that we can ultimately act against people who continue to behave in that forbidden organisation. This can only be done now, then, when, in the last resort, Article 140 has been put into effect; I could put it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u45	It is good that Mrs Van Toorenburg is also open to thought. I think this is a struggle that we have more, but I would like to ask you a few more questions. Mrs Van Toorenburg says that you could compensate for a two-year prison sentence with a financial compensation; that is indeed in the explanatory statement of the amendment. Of course that's true, but it's also a bit acidic if you're going to take that risk consciously. How does Mrs Van Toorenburg weigh that element?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u46	I think it will never be this fast, because it will have consequences for individuals when, after a first instance, it is clear that this organisation is prohibited. So that's where the discussion is. But we can do that, again, in a better way. We can either introduce that to the initiative law of Kicken c.s. about the motor clubs, to see how we can do better there and make very clear about which organisations we are talking about, or about the proposal that the cabinet is working on. Because now it seems that a very dangerous organization that is banned, for example a criminal motorcycle gang, can go on for a long time and continue to behave until the Supreme Court, six, eight or ten years later. Only then can we do something about an individual. Nor is that what we consider desirable, which also undermines the sense of the rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u47	Clear. I await what Mrs Van Toorenburg is going to do with her amendment, but I taste a little bit that she is going to withdraw it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u48	Yeah, you're right to taste that. But I do want an appreciation. And it also works that an amendment tabled can only be withdrawn in a public debate. So I'm actually announcing that, but this has the advantage that I can tempt the minister to appreciate it. Then, Mr President, a very different point. We now have the double penalty for possession and trafficking of fully automatic weapons. First of all, I would like to congratulate you on the speed with which our motion has been implemented. Of course, someone carrying such a fully automatic weapon on the street has only one intention, namely to make victims. A doubling of the penalty rate is therefore also very appropriate. However, over the past year, there has also been a significant increase in the use of hand grenades in organised crime, as a method of intimidation but also to make victims. The use of explosives is a totally unfocused way of using violence, and it is really waiting for the moment when innocent victims fall. That is why my group, together with D66, believes that if you are in possession of, dealing in or committing a crime with explosives, you have only one intention: to make a lot of victims. You don't even care who they are anymore. If you hang a hand grenade on a doorknob, have a hand grenade in a supporter's home or, as happened last night, throw in an explosive building, you obviously don't care who hits you anymore. You have someone in mind, but you just throw your explosive away or hang it on a door. That is so threatening and so dangerous that we have chosen to double its criminality by means of an amendment, just like that of fully automatic weapons. Then, Mr President, a few more questions about the criminalisation of the obstruction of aid workers. During the last budget debate, a motion was tabled by the PVV, supported by my group and the VVD, on a public service ban on violence against aid workers. I am actually curious whether this ban will now apply to the obstruction of aid workers. I think it's important to be very clear about that. We also continue to struggle with the fact that this is a criminal offence and not a crime. The reason for this is, as we understood, the fact that then there is no need to prove intent. Of course, that is easier, but at the same time it is about something that we consider to be very criminal. I would therefore like to see that added. Mr President, I come to the last point, but not the least. We want to raise this in a somewhat special way today. We have made a proposal, which I present together with Mrs Kuik and Mrs Buitenweg. Here's what's important. We often see images of people who are in a helpless state, for example by a very serious traffic accident, being made, which then appear on the Internet. You see it happen more and more often. And we are also repeatedly confronted with great commotion about accidents where people have made images of the victims and posted them on the Internet. How sick can you be? It occurs not only in the Netherlands, but also in other countries. In Germany too, you see a great struggle with this problem. In Germany, a ban on making images has been chosen. There are also videos about them; you may know them. Imagine a highway, and a boy who sees an accident happening there. That kid's making videos of that. Then he wants to forward it, but it doesn't work very well. Then he's gonna call his mother. And then underneath the curtain you see on that highway, the phone goes off. That is the way Germany has chosen to highlight these tragedies. That's a big deal. So in Germany, they say you can't make that footage. It's a bit of a struggle, because we know that people tend to make images when very bad things happen somewhere. Sometimes the police ask for that footage. We've been thinking about this. Shouldn't you actually make sure that not so much making such images, however reprehensible, should be punishable, but sharing them on the Internet with no other purpose than having lots of likes on Facebook and Instagram, of images you made of someone who needed help at that time? These include, for example, victims of road traffic offences, other serious accidents or people experiencing epileptic seizures on the streets. People are gonna make fun movies of that. Mrs Buitenweg already indicated that there were just footage of a child who was hit and eventually died in the street. Thank God the mother hasn't seen those images yet, but the friends have. So that's how you sit around looking at a dying loved one. Somehow individuals in this country have become so sick that they enjoy putting that on the Internet. So what have we done? We have a bill ready. We can file that as an initiative law. That's a road, but a long way. At the same time, we know that everyone thinks the rejection is so great that we would actually like to take a short blow. But it's a separate piece of legislation, so it's a lot to do. It can be done by amendment because it is very much in line with what is going on here. It is also about hindering aid workers and how you deal with them. In short: I would like to present a proposal through our praiseless messengers. I ask the Chamber, also on behalf of Mrs Kuik and Mrs Buitenweg, to think with us about how best to do this. I also ask for an appreciation from the Minister, preferably by letter, of how he looks at this. The article of the law is ready. The explanatory statement is ready. It's a clear story, I think. But it goes a long way. We then introduce an almost new and quite far-reaching piece of legislation per amendment. I would therefore like to ask whether Members in the Chamber would like to take a favourable look at this in order to see whether we should put it into an amendment, or whether we should, at the end of the day, proceed with the more tidy procedure, I admit, President-in-Office of the Initiative Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u49	On its status, therefore, it is not an amendment, but a kind of call for thought?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u50	It is a draft amendment or a draft legislative proposal that we are presenting in this way in a kind of public consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u51	That's totally new for the House of Representatives. That's a nice, playful version, but it's all possible. Mr Van Wijngaarden wants to speak immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u52	Nice procedural innovation. Nothing wrong with that. But let's think about this. How did Mrs Van Toorenburg and the other Members of this House consider many compliments for the work that has already been done, including in legal terms, to address the issue of publishing such images, for example through portrait law and the like? What does it add to existing legal instruments? Of course, it has to be published somewhere. There's a media code that makes journalists take this kind of thing into account. How's that taken into account?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u53	The special thing about this is that it is a criminal offence. In those other cases, you have to fight for yourself if your portrait law has been violated. That is why we think it fits very well with the legal provisions that we now know. For the last point, there is an exclusion ground, which we present directly in paragraph 2. It's been quite a puzzle. We've been messing with it like hell. We thought we'd present the piece for a while today. I'd also like to ask you to read it. What are the things you think we haven't thought about, even though we've thought about a lot of things? How can we perfect it? If we are so perfect with each other in a short time that we can do it by amendment, this is how we do it. If we think that we need to think more about it or that we also want to have advice from the Council of State, then we will make it an initiative law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u54	I have two comments to make. It is, of course, true that the criminalisation process, in addition to the other instruments and routes already in place, is procedurally more complex. I did understand that there is an exception for journalists who make footage. A member of the ECHR Court is hereby appointed. But of course this is also about the responsibility of journalistic fora that already have a media code, in which they have agreed that they do not publish this kind of images.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u55	True, but unfortunately, you can see that this is happening. But then you actually end up in another discussion. Above all, we are concerned that there are individuals who see something tragic happening and for no other reason than "look at me have tough pictures" participating in sharing this kind of material. So it's no other goal than that someone just thinks: look what I've been able to collect here. That is actually adding suffering, and that is why we believe it to be in line with our Code of Criminal Law. So, Mr President, to sum up, we would like a response from everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u56	Exciting!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u57	Even from you. I'd love to hear from you, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u58	No, I'm just gonna keep my head down.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u59	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u60	Thank you. I call Mr Hiddema of the Forum for Democracy Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u61	Mr. Chairman. We get a varied menu from the kitchen of the minister where they brew new weets. It's a very varied menu. They are light, bite-free pieces that you can agree with under the motto: it does not benefit, then it does not harm. That's the most positive thing you can say. But there's also heavy costs. It is sometimes surrounded by a smell that we don't quite like. The tone of the debate is such that you might think as a superficial observer: well, the State does show its teeth. This is going in the right direction. They're gonna like it, the bad guy! There you go! I did not find any measures to increase the chances of catching up, but we should not talk about that. The punishments will be increased, doubled. Crime descriptions are being expanded. New acts are judged to be criminal. It's going in the right direction. Let me help those people out of the dream. What is happening here is a masquerade. What is happening here is a façade that has to cover up that the government, in criminal practice, in the practice where people are given safety by the appointed powers, is failing hopelessly. In order to compensate for this, new texts are now being entrusted to the paper from which we must build hope.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u62	Shall we first listen to Mr Hiddema's introduction, Mrs Buitenweg?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u63	This is a bit of a saucy entrance and I do not want to end up grumpy during this debate. So I do want the Minister to know that we also apply the nuance. For example, there is now a penalty clause concerning the obstruction of aid workers. That is a very good thing. Those people deserve a little support in the back. Everyone sees the necessity and the usefulness of this. The chances of getting caught up in these issues are not too small either. Because everyone is on top of it, so the evidence position of the vandal in question that attacks aid workers doesn't have to be too complicated. However, the practice shows that there are hardly any attackers of aid workers in court. Aren't they gonna get arrested? No, the case gets smothered in the bud, everyone goes their own way, and afterwards a paramedic complains about what happened. You rarely see one of the vandals responsible for those issues being picked up. That's just a matter of doing. Anyway, there's no harm in having that provision.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u64	Shall we listen to Mrs. Buitenweg?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u65	I heard Mr Hiddema say that this was a bit of a grumpy entrance. I did notice he wasn't there the whole time. He makes it sound like he's the first person to raise the price. I assume he has been told that almost all colleagues have indicated that it is not just about increasing the penalty, but about the chance of getting caught. Then Mr Hiddema probably joins colleagues instead of opposing them. Is that how I see it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u66	I don't know. I'm not judging the work of the Chamber. I'm talking about the minister. I do not see the word "pakkans" in his lyrics. But I merely judge you, my fellow Members, on whether there is a pleasant debate here, with an optimistic tone, and whether there is a strong and optimistic view of the future. Then maybe I'm getting a little dissonant.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u67	That's my point. It wasn't dissonant. Mr Hiddema likes to sound dissonant, but almost all colleagues here in the House of Representatives have said that it is not just a question of something being beautiful on paper. We have said that we are concerned that the chance of getting caught is insufficient. We are calling on the Minister to raise it and give us an answer in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u68	This is something that the Minister has once again emphasized. Thank you. That's where I wanted to go. In Article 311 "during sleep' is deleted. Also a very useful reflection. In practice, the increase in penalties may also indicate that preparatory acts may also be punishable. There's no harm in that. Vengeance porn is the same story: it doesn't benefit, it doesn't harm. The statute of limitations on child abuse can also be put on the pile. With this I have applied all possible nuances. That looks good. It can't hurt. Well, let's get to the grumpy part. There is quite a paradise with Article 140 Criminal Law. Those criminal organizations are gonna love it. Anyone who participates in a criminal organisation for the purpose of committing crimes that have been committed for more than 12 years will go to jail for 10 years. That may be the thought of a newspaper's uninvited reader: well, that ten years isn't so bad to me. If it reads what criminal organizations are working, it can go on for ten years. But it completely ignores reality. The explanatory statement states that this increase in penalties, from six to ten years, sends out a signal of strong social disapproval. A pacifier. A pacifier! Anyone who has risen high in a criminal organization, and who thus ends up in the category ten years or more because that's what they get; we're usually talking, practically always, about drug organizations getting over ten years. Count on it. How can that be, the reader will think, because he can still get up to ten years? Anyone who is part of a criminal organisation that matters will be punished for the crimes of the ground, drug trafficking, arms trafficking, and criminal offences. That's where he's gonna hang high in the tree. That's where he gets hurt. Because Article 140 is the dessert on the proven statement. This only brings the D.A. in the hope that, if everything fails, at least that will stick. Moreover, it will be easier later, when you have to go into set-off, into withdrawal measures, if someone has been convicted of Article 140. No one who is purely covered by this article of law, who can therefore only be condemned for membership of a criminal organisation and has not come to the knowledge of a ground crime, on which that organization drives and his income from peers, a base bat, that is, someone who makes a shed available, who facilitates cars, who manages the electricity, who cuts in hash sheds, gets ten years from his days of life. Never! That's what makes me grumpy. What is happening here is that law enforcement is being pointed out with a solemn face. If this article of law comes from here and is passed, judges will in fact think: oh, where is the trash can?; I can't do anything with it in practice. Those bats that are condemned solely on the basis of 140 are never given ten years of their lives. It's pointless façade politics, symbolic politics. It's Styrofoam. What else do you have to come up with? But the worst part is, this is undermining the law's authority. And that goes for more articles. No one takes a law seriously in the long run, and anyone who is a little bit initiated in the knowledge of that law knows that judges can't do anything with it. And that's what happens here every day. Why is that happening? To mask the fact that on the street, in practice, detection is failing, day in and day out. Now we have ten years. That sounds very manly. A good opportunity to ask the Minister if hope is to live, one might think of what has been shown by a disturbing detective report published not so long ago, namely that nine out of ten criminal organisations are not being prosecuted. How's that coming along? Apparently, the minister has something in his hands to punish people more severely, up to ten years. But where did these guys come from? Nine out of ten organisations are not prosecuted at all. And then you come up with such a measure? Paper is patient and hope makes life live, but it doesn't get anywhere. Then the Arms and Ammo Act. "Eight years for arms trade" also sounds very manly. Well, there's a point. The explanatory statement says that the cabinet takes criminal behaviour seriously, because it runs the risk to the public. Oh, yeah? I call Amsterdam. There's never been a raid there. The police know damn well that in some neighborhoods there are houses full of guns in every street. But it didn't happen once. No independent investigation is ever carried out on the basis of the arms bill. Even when criminal organizations are dismantled and weapons are found, they go to the judicial lab but never follow up on where these bitches came from and how they got them. Never will. All weapons teams with specialists have been dismantled. I ask the Minister: how are you doing with that? There's been a lot of complaints from the detectives that all this fine expertise in the field of weapons law has evaporated. Those teams have been disbanded. How's that working out for you? How do you get in such a climate with the story that the sentence is raised to eight years? It's no good to you at all. But, yeah, if there's nothing to catch, we'll fix something on paper. This is again a masquerade of purely failing policies. So I'd like to know what's going on with the weapons teams. I'd like to know something else. More than a year ago, when 12% of the detectives in Amsterdam were still sick at home, I asked the Minister if he could even visit those people. Nine out of ten criminal organizations are not prosecuted. You could approach those people, apparently on the work floor sick but still mobile, and they could ask if they want to wrestle through the old files. All they have to do is look for guns. They don't have to throw all the suspects in a pile or expose each other, which is a hellish job and for which it's far too late. But if a detective thinks there's a gun in the game, he's gonna find it like that, he's gonna have to go through with it. Has that ever happened? I thought that was such a nice plan of my own. I call it the rake-and-drag method. You take those old files off the shelf and put on that whole reservoir of half-sick, near-sick and near-healing detectives. Then they can settle down a bit in the criminal sphere, learn some old, familiar names and visit all these buildings. But never will. In practice nothing has happened, for many Cabinets; Rutte I, II, II: it is not progressing. The search results are still dramatic. They're being covered up. You're being taken by the nose as a civilian. There will never be any targeted weapons investigation. It's funny. Only amateur healers find Kalashnikovs anymore. They collect bicycles with rods in the canal, hoping that they will also encounter an old, rusty Kalashnikov. The press is running along hoping they'll get a gun like that on a photo. Those are the only tracking people targeting automatic weaponry. Nothing else happens from the police point of view. So what do we say? Eight years for arms trade can do it, so go ahead; it can't hurt, you never know how a cow catches a hare. Then we get to 137d. The same story: pure symbolism. What is in the explanatory statement? It has to be a deterrent effect, we're going to raise one year to two years for people who hate and discriminate, for those types. It doesn't say it's running out of spigates. 'Cause it wouldn't end at all. Research shows that nine criminal cases were conducted in 2017. They've all become community service. Now that judge gets in touch with that new law. Here he goes again, where's my trash can? Bullshit! This affects the law's authority. And what does the explanatory statement say? "The increase has a deterrent effect." Bullshit! People who commit crimes of this kind are persuasive. They come out for their political or religious insights. You can't stop it with two years, especially if they know it's never gonna be imposed. So this is also purely symbolic. But what does it say? "A deterrent effect." That's what we should have learned from, because it's there. For years, day in, day out, the Wilders process has been taking place. Day in, day out: that is the deterrent effect of the operation of this article. This article is devastating, because it also leads to political opportunism in prosecution. The PvdA foreman says fucking Moroccans. Another PvdA foreman says: Moroccans are genetically destined to end up high on the criminal ladder. Another PvdA foreman says: in the punishment you must humiliate Moroccans. What does Wilders say? Less, less. And he's been in a hellish process for years based on this article. This article divides society to the bone. This article has become a refuge for querulants and sharpeners. And it is not just the individual citizen who suffers from a hateful neighbour or someone who speaks about the hedge insulting lyrics. No, it is the associations of interests, which have only one purpose: to optimize complaints. It's their pay model. They exist at the pardon of declarations. They grab at this article and march in parade to the police stations. And the police will also fill out advance forms; that it can only work with the report. That is what divides society, and not those utterances that emerge from an exaggeration or religious primitive thought. They're neighborly quarrels. You don't need it, and you never get two years. This article has to die. It should be left alone: inciting violence. Inciting hatred and discrimination is a jungle for a judge. There's no way out. That is why I have an amendment in preparation, which is already in the process of proposing an amendment to this article with the deletion of 'inciting hatred and discrimination', because it divides society and overloads the judiciary. May I ask the Minister the following. This article must have a deterrent effect. I say to you that the deterrent effect lies in the operation of the article itself. Can I ask the Minister to bring to his attention once again the frightening effect of this article itself? What has the Wilders case cost the State so far? How does this article of state? I'd like to hear that. Social cohesion is linked to the existence of this Article. The freedom of expression, Article 10, requires that everyone can say what they want. We agree with him, unless he insults him, incites violence or incites violence. That's what we want, too. Social cohesion can only be a reason to limit freedom of expression if there is a compelling reason of social importance to reduce that freedom of expression. Let me put it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u69	The purpose of a law article on non-provoking violence or hatred is to create a society in which people are unsafe, intimidated, cannot be themselves and thus cannot freely participate in society like others. That's why it's so important. So I am now asking Mr Hiddema: do I understand that the Forum for Democracy does not think it should be forbidden to call for hatred against homosexuals?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u70	Sure, you can't do that, but then you get a whole different debate. Then you don't have to go along the road of this article. Then you've got incendiary. It will soon fall under the threat of violence or insult. If you want to treat someone with a homosexual orientation negatively, you should also come up with a trace of evidence on which that treatment is based. You'll be in an insult right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u71	It's going all over the place now. If I have understood correctly, because it was quite a whole argument, then there will be an amendment to Article 137d. That adaptation is that the ban on calling for hate and violence is limited and that you should not only call for violence. So you can call for hatred, because why else would you want to change the article of the law? I understand from this that the Democracy Forum wants to amend the article of the law so that it calls for hatred of the people of Europe, and then there will be a lot of land that should not be banned from now on. You shouldn't want to run away from that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u72	I'm not running away. If everyone, simply in their minds, thinks that he should spout an opinion that usually hardly exceeds the level of the apért dumbness, thinking that he can hurt gays with it, then from his stupidity he very quickly comes to very stupid insults. Well, that's it. But now you're dealing with this inciting article. Then comes the judiciary. You can see it now at Wilders. The district attorney is still trying to prosecute him for inciting hatred. It shouldn't get weirder. Mr Wilders would threaten social cohesion and democratic society. That is why this restriction should be introduced. Let me tell you something. If democracy is not up to Wilders, then it is not worth a snipe. That is the working of this article to this day. That divides society to the bone. It's just people who aren't concerned with personal integrity. It is the associations of interests that take the opportunity and masse to go back to trial. We want to get rid of that. The existing laws provide more than enough room to arrest someone for sedition, inciting violence, insulting or damaging honour and good name. It's simple, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u73	The Forum for Democracy proposes to remove hate from the law and brings the importance of the article back to the Wilders case alone. But that hate-sowing article is of course also used in other things, for example in banning a hate-imam that wants to come to the Netherlands and calls for gays to throw their heads down from an apartment building. This article was also applied there. Because Forum now proposes to remove this article from the law, Forum rolls out the red carpet for this kind of hate images. What is Mr Hiddema's reaction to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u74	Those are great words, but small thoughts from this esteemed VVD envoy. If an imam calls for you or Joost to know which one to throw from the apartment, does he call for hatred? No, then he calls for violence. Maybe he has great compassion for a man who has behaved so horribly in moral terms. He has terrible compassion for that, but there's no other way. He has to die. Well, that's appealing to violence. Simple.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u75	I think it would be wonderful to live in the world of Mr Hiddema, because in that world everything is simple. Mr Hiddema simplifies the importance of this article to one case, namely the Wilders case, which is still under judicial review. I do not want to go into that now either. He ignores the fact that this whole hate-sowing article is important to create, even before anyone starts calling for violence but at the stage when he calls for hatred, a legal title to prevent such a person from Dutch society. I think we should be able to find each other on that. We don't want people like that here, do we? Then why are we going to take the opportunity out of the law to keep these people out of the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u76	Because it saddles the judge with endless discussions and palaver about when the hate stage is reached and when the stage of discrimination is reached. Well, then we say: stop doing this, because the toolbox we have now is equipped enough to do it. Moreover, this article is not suitable to offer any relief to an individual citizen with a pranged mind who is besieged by hatred. This is evident from the way it works. It is always professional groups or interest groups that take over this article. That's gonna cost the state a lot of money. We have to stop doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u77	Rounding off, short.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u78	Now it's interesting. If we peel everything off, the reason is that it would be very complicated for the judge to apply this article. Then I find it interesting that we have never received that signal from the courts. So it's purely Mr. Hiddema's interpretation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u79	Well... I do not think that the judges have much need of really getting involved in these matters. In 2017, nine judges came to this article. So it's not that bad. Then I think, if the harvest is nine criminal offences, then stop. It could be simpler. So this is the bill on Article 137d. That whole law really characterizes what has happened here, not only with regard to that law, but actually with regard to everything. This article must remain in the scaffolding and be rigged out of fear of the empowered citizen. It's unworthy of a mature democracy. I would like to conclude by saying that the proposals that are before us deserve to be appreciated. You know how nuanced I've tried to look at it. The Minister's zeal is great; that has to be said. There's a lot of paper out of his hands. There's a lot coming out of the kitchen, but it's not gonna do us any good. That is also unworthy of democracy. If you, as a minister, as a government, come up with recruiting texts, I do not want to say 'pathos' from which the citizen could derive that, as it has been so far, it was not very good, but that it is now going a completely different direction, then that is Styrofoam for the citizen. It is a pacifier for the citizen and it is a long nose to anyone who seriously wants to know exactly what is going on with the state of the fight against crime. I asked the Minister about that. I'd like to know what's going on with the weapons teams. I would like to know how many specific weapons-oriented investigations have been carried out in the past year. And I'd like to know what that Wilders case costs. That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u80	Thank you. Then we are going to listen to Mrs Chicken from the Labour Party. After the term of the Chamber, I'm going to suspend for lunch. That's half an hour. Then we have the votes and then we have the order of business. And then we're gonna listen to the Minister's answers. I call Mrs Kuik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u81	Mr. Chairman. There's nothing in itself against this bill. There are nice elements in it when it comes to tackling child abuse, hindering aid workers, undermining and revenge porn. As has been said, raising the penalty does not offer any relief if you do not have a case law that can deal with that increased penalty measure in an orderly manner. For the sake of clarity, I would like to add my voice to the questions that have been put on this subject, including the specific question put by Mr Van Nispen of the SP. We hear positive noises that extra money comes in, for example for the justice system, but we also hear that money is being taken away from the police at the same time. That would be a little pocket-jacket bag. I would like a response from the Minister on this point. Mr. Chairman. With regard to sex legislation, we expect a whole sex package at another time. I look forward to that, because we have been waiting for more than two years now. It is extremely important to be able to tackle new forms of sexual violence. I do not think the term "revenge porn" is right either. It's just sexual footage being abused, which makes it a sex crime, a sexual crime. The same applies to a term like "slutshaming." That says something about whoever comes to that judgment, not the victim it happens to. My appeal is therefore: if it comes to a new package of vice legislation, choose the terms carefully, because the victims deserve it. I have a specific question about the questions raised by Mrs Buitenweg on tackling discrimination and violence against people from the Ihbtqi community. An amendment has been tabled on sexual orientation. I would like to support that. I myself have an amendment in preparation on Article 137c and whether the term'sex' should at least be added to it, and perhaps also the term 'gender identification and gender expression'. Should there perhaps be a broadening of that term or should it be adequately addressed in the existing articles? Mrs Buitenweg asked a very specific question about this. I have not yet tabled my amendment because I also want to wait for the Minister's answers. If these questions are not answered properly, Mrs Buitenweg and I may be able to work together and make an amendment to that effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u82	For the record, I am not in favour of doing both 137c and'sex' and 'genderidity and gender expression', but in line with the Awgb, we have said that 'discrimination based on sex' must also mean this form of discrimination. The term "sex" must therefore be interpreted in this way and is expressed in the legislation, as has been done in the Awgb. I would find it complicated to include only "gender expression and gender identity" in 137c. In the absence of the basic'sex', I wonder what the effect is on the fact that in all other articles in 137c we do have'sex' and under that we have understood, through case law, 'gender expression and gender identity'.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u83	That's totally correct. I now have an amendment with the term'sex' in it, but I can only do so if the Minister answers these other questions in the affirmative. So I hope that I have provided sufficient clarity. On behalf of us and Mrs Buitenweg, Mrs Van Toorenburg has tabled the proposal to stop publishing victims' publications online. I would also like to go to Mr Van Wijngaarden, who has just walked away, but I'm sure he will read it back, saying that people who have died have no portrait rights. That is just as important to note. The only rights that remain are the rights of survivors, and they deserve some form of protection. That's why it's an initiative. (NL) Mr President, I should like to conclude entirely. What I still think is a missed opportunity, also in this bill and in the discussions we have had before: digital is the real world and the real world is the virtual world. That is why I still think it is a missed chance that new forms of bans have not emerged. For example, we have argued for a digital restraining order, which would also allow you to better deal with hate preachers who manifest themselves online, or people who are guilty of e.g. placing explicit material. I would like once again to have a response from the Minister whether we should not come up with new forms of bans, which are better suited to the digital world. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u84	Thank you, too. Then it is time for the first speaker on the list of speakers for this debate, Mr Markuszower of the Group of the Party of Freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u85	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking, and much has already been said, about the revaluation of certain forms of crime. The cabinet introduces two new crimes, namely revenge porn and obstruction of aid workers. Vengeance porn takes up to one year in prison and perpetrators who hinder aid workers can count on up to three months in prison. In addition, the penalty ceilings for a number of offences go up a bit. That goes for home invasion. Theft in a home is now subject to a maximum of six years in prison, regardless of the time at which this crime is committed. Trade and possession of automatic firearms will be subject to a maximum of eight years in prison. In addition, there is an increase in criminal liability for child abuse. Child abuse is terrible and, by definition, has very vulnerable victims. It is therefore a good thing that the Cabinet wishes to extend the limitation period for child abuse and to add systematic abuse as a separate grounds for increased criminality, and that the grounds for increased criminality for child abuse are extended to other persons, such as people working in schools, boarding schools and health care institutions, where abuse is too common. The PVV always welcomes the increase in penalties, especially in the case of offences that have a major impact on the victim and society. However, the penalties now being announced are not substantial. For I ask the Minister: if someone robs a defenseless woman in her own home, is six years of jail time a terrifying punishment? Is that really high enough? If an aid worker is harassed and hindered on old and new occasions, so that the aid workers cannot provide adequate help and have to do their work at risk for their own well-being, is three months really a great punishment? This minister says that people who commit violence against aid workers and agents should not get away with community service. We agree. But a few days in prison, apparently, the Minister thinks it's terrifying enough? I wonder how aid workers and agents who are constantly being attacked with old and new people think about this themselves. Why does the Minister not propose, for example, a minimum of five years in prison for this kind of horrible crime? And is the Minister prepared to ask the aid workers themselves what they think is an appropriate punishment, and to inform the Chamber about it? So the increases proposed by the Minister are not really very much. But we have another major problem in the Netherlands, and that problem is so great that all these increases will prove to be almost irrelevant. The problem is and is: the magistrate in the Netherlands, the judges and the members of the Public Prosecutor's Office. Namely: the Public Prosecutor's Office often requires too low penalties and judges often impose far too low penalties. The ordinary citizen has been calling this out for years, but nobody in the Chamber wants to do anything about it except the PVV. The magistrate is given by everyone here in the Chamber and by the Cabinet but is given the space to ignore the will of the people, high, just punishments instead of low, weak punishments. As mentioned above, any increase in penalties is welcomed by the PVV, but the penalties in the Netherlands are and remain far too low. Take the only three years of jail time a tbser's been given. He was already in the tbs, then he raped an employee there, and he only got three years in prison for this rape. For a rape! Or take the terror father who has systematically abused ten of his children for years and years and locked his children in the attic and in a shipping container. He was only sent to prison for two years. Or the asylum seeker who has only been sentenced to 20 months for a gruesome rape, who is later qualified as 'other', so that no one knows that asylum seekers commit such terrible crimes. According to the Minister, this bill has a terrifying function. The maximum penalties proposed by the Minister for the crimes he has chosen are only a tiny piece of cloth on a bleeding wound. For example, I have examples of too low penalties up to and including jut-jut, but let me mention one more example: that was extended today in De Telegraaf. Michel B. was convicted in 2008 for the multiple rape of a child. Raping a child! But within one year this Michel B. will be outside again. He shouldn't have been in jail for one year, as far as I'm concerned, he should have been in jail for at least 20 or 30 years, or even life for me, because a child has been raped. The judges, they should've gotten TBs, because they're crazy enough to give such a horrible criminal just one year in jail. Then a question to the Minister. Why does the Minister think that the increase in the penalty ceilings in the law will actually have an effect? For example, in 2012, the maximum penalty for trafficking in human beings was increased from eight to 12 years, but the number of convictions for trafficking in human beings has only fallen. Judges didn't go to prison any harder. For example, in 2016, the average penalty for trafficking in human beings was only one and a half years. The only way for judges to actually impose higher penalties is by introducing minimum penalties. At present, judges have an uncontrolled freedom in the area of punishment. Nevertheless, despite everything, this CDA minister has done a lot of work on one increase. That was the doubling of the penalty rate in Article 137d. But that's because his party, the CDA, saw in this doubling the opportunity to call a political opponent. A political reckoning. CDA-poldermafia practices. The leader of my party, the PVV, has been unjustly haunted by the Dutch magistrate on the basis of this article for six years now. And that, as a child understands, the competition is of course convenient. The penalty rate for this article should not now be doubled. This article needs to be amended first. This article unnecessarily restricts freedom of expression; we have just discussed it. Of course, you should not encourage violence, but the freedom of expression in the Netherlands should be extended and not restricted. The next question is to the Minister. Why didn't the Minister choose to increase and, for example, double the penalty for rape, manslaughter, aggravated assault or robbery? These seem to me to be serious crimes, even those that are now being punished too low. Why doesn't the minister do anything about the low penalties for the most serious crimes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u86	That was your term? Thank you. Mrs Buitenweg with a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u87	I want to make it clear whether the PVV thinks that Mr Wilders or that the PVV itself is not really inciting hatred at all or that inciting hatred should actually be well accepted.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u88	What is particularly important in the Netherlands is that you do not encourage violence. That is forbidden and should remain prohibited. There is no question of that. And indeed, I do not think that hatred has been incited, but please do not let me go into individual matters. You always suggest to me that I should not do that, so let us not do that in this case either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u89	Yes, but the PVV doesn't mind being encouraged to hate, because that should at least not be punishable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u90	The latter is certainly right. What should only be criminalised is inciting violence. Of course, much remains to be done for people who feel offended or discriminated against. There are a lot of possibilities for this in the current penal law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u91	I am aware of the tone and content of Mr Markuszower's speeches. At some point in time a kind of apathy sometimes strikes, but today, I think, Mr Markuszower went a step further. He's actually saying that this minister has started a political trial against his political leader. My question to Mr Markuszower is: can you justify this accusation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u92	I do not think I made that very clear, so as far as I am concerned, you can go back to the apathetic attitude, which seems to be better for you. Again, I think it is very unwise to go into this individual matter in depth. But if you have followed the process, there are also questions from the PVV Group about the Minister's interference in this process. It happened not to be about this minister, but about one of his predecessors. So that point was implicitly made by the PVV group is of course already widely known. If it's okay, you've received those questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u93	Mr Markuszower referred to the call of Mr Wilders through a political trial and linked it to the CDA-poldermafia, which he put through the mailbox with the Minister of Justice. I believe that my conclusion is entirely justified. But if Mr Markuszower did not mean it that way and distanced himself from those words, then I am very happy to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u94	It was the CDA Group that argued in the negotiations for a penalty increase in this article. It is clear that a child can understand this, that this is about calling a political competitor. These are poldermafia practices of the CDA, with the agreement of D66, VVD and Christian Union, because they all participate in this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u95	But then Mr Markuszower's speech does not make any sense, because the trial against Mr Wilders was already under way. Even Mr Markuszower, who sometimes makes legal sense, knows that there is no retroactive effect in this respect. So I think he should just say: I've just been saying a bullshit story.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u96	Even Mr Groothuizen must know that judges, however often I waste them here, can also be heard. If judges know that there is talk in this Chamber about increasing a sentence, in a case of a political competitor, it will certainly have an impact on the final judgment of the judges and on the punishment of the judges. Even if it is not retroactive, it certainly creates a new climate. If Mr Groothuizen, a former member of the magistrate I have just described as a major problem, does not understand that, it seems as if he does not understand it, because it is sound and clear that that is how it works in the Netherlands. Judges hear what is being said here and can therefore, on the basis of a new climate created by the political parties here, certainly take into account their punishment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u97	Mrs. Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u98	Mr President, Mr Markuszower speaks to me personally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u99	You're right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u100	Thank you, Mr President. I note that I find this a low point in Mr Markuszower's speeches. He also shoots himself in the foot, because one side of his plea is that judges never listen, and eventually he tries to get out now by saying that judges do listen to what is said in politics. That's how he shoots himself in the foot. It is a pity that you have said this. It would please you if you took this back.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u101	No, I said judges can hear. They don't listen enough to the will of the people. Your party does the same, as all parties in this Chamber do, because this Chamber, magistrate and cabinet refuse to introduce minimum sentences, the D.A. refuses to demand high sentences and judges refuse to impose high penalties in rape cases, murders and so on often, not always. That is a very big problem. But of course judges hear, especially when it comes to a political competitor. Because all those judges are members of D66 or GroenLinks. So if it is a political competitor, they will certainly hear what is being said here. I'm afraid they'll take it into account in their final sentence, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u102	I would like to thank Mr Groothuizen for his interruption, because it is always better if a colleague makes an intervention in this way rather than the person who is being talked about, who actually thinks it is too sick to respond. So I thank him for that, I think it's actually a nicer way to have the debate. But I do have a question for Mr Markuszower. Does he seem to be so upset that there might also be someone in court who can judge whether there is anything in the description of the crime, that it is also okay to have hate images spread their poison across the Netherlands? 'Cause maybe someday a judge is gonna be able to judge other hatemongers, too. Is that worth such a sacrifice?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u103	I don't quite understand the question. But if you ask me if hate images are allowed to preach here, of course I say no. An imam always preaches for the introduction of sharia, which by definition is inciting violence. That seems to me to be more than enough ground to ward off such a hate image, an imam, from Dutch soil.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u104	Unfortunately, that's not true. That would have made it all very, very easy. But we have had a debate here earlier on the criminalisation of hate-stowing, because a former member of the PVV had put forward a proposal on this subject. After he left, he moved on. However, I find it very fascinating that the PVV apparently considers hate-sowing as such to be criminal, but only when it can happen that a person is brought before a court, on which a judge must ultimately judge, should all hate-sowing but not be punishable. Isn't that a weird line of reasoning?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u105	No, because this is only about Article 137d. That is what we are maintaining when it comes to inciting violence. That gives the Netherlands and the Dutch enough space and opportunities to prosecute people who preach violence, or who sow hatred, if you like, but who in any case call for violence. I wasn't talking about hate sowing. I was talking about amending Article 137d.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u106	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u107	I think Mr Markuszower should read the case law a little bit. It has repeatedly indicated that hate-sowing is the only thing that can be introduced against hate-sowing imams. Apparently, the PVV is just fine with imams at the end of the day.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u108	No, if Article 137d has been amended, imams can be prosecuted and prevented on the basis of the same article, namely on the basis of inciting violence. It is very easy to look at the case law now. The article is now being used because it is there. If the article is amended, judges and Dutch people who want to get their rights will find other articles that make it possible to ward off this kind of imams.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u109	I believe that the PVV Group, like the Forum for Democracy, will soon be able to expect a thank-you note from a hate image written in Arabic for this proposal. But my question is another, namely: does the PVV Group think that we should be able to prosecute people who adhere to ISIS and do so openly as easily and as quickly as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u110	Oh, yeah. IS is a terrorist organization. What you said about the thank-you note of an imam I cannot post, so I repeat, because an imam is the same as a hate-imam............................................................................................................................................................................................ Sharia is a loud call for violence, and that is always banned, even in the world of PVV. We're gonna have to prosecute that like hell. I'm sorry, can you repeat your first question again?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u111	The point remains that hatred and violence are two different things. Hate precedes violence. So I'd say, go deeper in those terms. Those are really two different things. You need both in the law. Let me turn to the issue of IS supporters. I would like to remind the PVV Group that the people who were waving IS flags here could be prosecuted with the hate-sowing article, which you and the Forum for Democracy say: let's gum it out of the law, because that is really all we have, and it is so complicated. That's bullshit. With this you play that kind of people, the people who were waving IS flags here in The Hague, in the map.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u112	An IS flag is a brutal appeal to violence. This wave can still be prosecuted on the basis of Article 137d, because we leave violence standing. By the way, I do notice a small, or indeed a large, twist of the VVD Group, because in the debate to which Mrs Van Toorenburg referred, your colleague, Mr Taverne, advocated the same thing as I am now. So I don't really understand what's going on at the VVD. Maybe the VVD's a little confused about all that turning. But also your colleague Taverne, a good lawyer, understood that you can still prosecute people who wave IS flags on the basis of inciting violence. I think you should go back to your old group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u113	To clarify, we are talking today in this debate about the extension of the criminality of hate speech. That article is still in the law. I am not the one proposing to delete that article, which makes it more difficult to prosecute hate images and people waving IS flags.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u114	Again, people who wave IS flags can simply be prosecuted for inciting violence. But what's really a problem is that all these people are here. And by whom are they here? Among other things by the VVD, the CDA and D66. They brought all these people here. Those are the people who attack homosexuals on the street, who attack Jews on the street, who attack women on the street and intimidate their own daughters. You brought all these problems to the Netherlands. We should not all be pulling crazy antics and restricting the Dutch in their freedom of speech. The article on inciting violence must be kept. That's a great article. We can use that to prosecute anyone who incites violence. Freedom of expression must be extended. That can be done if your party stops importing all those scary people who are sowing violence here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u115	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u116	I'm suspending until 12:55. Then we have the votes, at least one vote. Then we have the arrangement of work and then we are going to listen to the Minister.
