ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome everyone, including the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality and the people in the public gallery. We are starting the debate today on insect mortality. I give the floor to Mrs Bromet on behalf of GroenLinks as the first speaker. Speaking time is four minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. I see myself standing in the garden last summer. It was almost night. It was quiet. There was no wind. Above the flowers in my garden was a cloud full of little bugs: bees, bumblebees, butterflies. I heard them buzzing and I looked at them: they were back after a long winter. They were back, but they gave me a stomachache. Were they with less than last year? Could I also see the disturbing reports of insect mortality? I am pleased that the Minister acknowledges that it is true that the number of insects is decreasing. Nearly 80% of the insects have disappeared, according to research. And that's bad. Insects form the base on which birds, other animals and also humans depend. The probable causes are known: intensive agriculture, too much nitrogen and phosphate from the manure of our cattle and agricultural poison. The great thing is that we know how things are going so badly with our insects, because then we can also work on a solution, namely less agriculture, less manure and less poison. But even though everyone here recognises the problem, there is still no solution. A ladybug has nothing to do with extra research and there is no dragonfly added by more consultation. Measures must be taken. Less poison, less manure; that really helps the insects. The Minister, like the GroenLinks Group, has been waiting for proposals in anticipation of the Delta Plan on Biodiversity Restoration. This is a welcome initiative in which farmers, business, banking, nature and environmental organisations cooperate on more nature in the Netherlands. I am pleased that these parties confirm that we have a problem with nature. I fear that not all those who are behind these parties are so far away and some of them are still in denial, but they may need a little more time. I've read the Deltaplan Biodiversity Recovery and I'm really sorry to say it, but I'm disappointed, despite all the good intentions, because I'm sure the plan has been worked with heart and soul. Maybe I'm a little too impatient, too. There will be critical performance indicators (KPIs), a monitoring system, national biodiversity indicators, working routes and a new governance structure. They should create a dream image in 2030 that is also my dream image: a thriving delta for humans and nature. But are they removing the causes of insect mortality? I don't read anything about nitrogen and phosphate extraction. I do not read anything about agricultural poison or, as some call it, plant protection products. I don't read anything about connecting nature reserves. And well, if we see circular agriculture as an exacerbation of agriculture, you could read something about it with good will. I don't want to take anything away from the good intentions of the parties who wrote the delta plan. I know that the people at the table in the sector sometimes have great difficulty in moving their supporters. I speak to a lot of enthusiastic farmers who, like me, have stomach pains from insect mortality. GroenLinks believes that radical measures are needed to stop insect mortality. There must be a plan for less nitrogen, less phosphate, less pesticides, better links between nature reserves and more nature in agricultural areas. We're in a hurry. We can't go on like this, at the risk of having no mosquito, no dragonfly and no ladybug left. Without bugs, no human being. Mr. Chairman. I have a few questions for the Minister. Does she agree with GroenLinks that biodiversity is a public challenge? Does it believe that the proposed measures from the Deltaplan Biodiversity Recovery turned the Netherlands into a thriving delta for humans and animals in 2030? How is she going to keep an eye on whether we are on course and will she do something if the plan doesn't lead on the dream picture?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mrs Bromet. I now give the floor to Mr Geurts on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mr. Chairman. No one will deny that the decline of insects is worrying. Insects are at the beginning of our food chain. And insects are very important for pollination of trees and plants. Insects are an important part of a healthy balance in nature. There are several studies that indicate that the insects in the nature reserves are bad. And when you say that, the reaction is that agriculture is the cause. In this discussion I see ecologists and biologists who dare to say so with certainty, without having done any research. In my view, it is forgotten that agricultural land has been reduced in the Netherlands. Between 1950 and 2016, 550,000 hectares of agricultural land were withdrawn from agriculture. Since 1996, 40,000 hectares of agricultural land have been cultivated with dwellings and farms and 10,000 hectares of agricultural land have become forest. Mr. Chairman. It's important that we know what we're talking about. This requires more monitoring. The minister says she's gonna explore that. Wageningen's report is from a year ago, but it is not yet clear what kind of monitoring is going to be carried out for, among other things, agricultural areas. What about setting up this monitoring? When will this be decided? Mr. Chairman. The very likely decline in insects is due to various factors, including our land structure, but probably also due to the decline in agricultural land, increase in roads, housing, industrial sites. It is therefore a good thing that nature organisations, science, retail and agricultural organisations have joined forces and come up with a Deltaplan Biodiversity. Greetings to these parties who want to work together. For farmers it is important that they are also rewarded for their efforts to give nature a boost, such as with wooden walls. What opportunities does the Minister see to ensure that such initiatives can be a new earning model? In addition, the CDA is pleased that the Deltaplan Biodiversity also looks at the public space of the city in particular. The question arises as to how to ensure that parks and verges are interesting for insects that we want. Is this being considered jointly? What plans are already being put into practice? What are the results of that? How, for example, is Rijkswaterstaat doing this, in the design of our country? Mr. Chairman. We also need to look across borders to see how biodiversity is protected there. What standards are there for preventing biodiversity loss in EU trade agreements? I would like to ask the Minister such a question. What are the possibilities for the Minister to participate in this? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u5	I think that Mr Geurts is right that it could well be that, precisely because of urbanization and the construction of roads, there has been less space for nature. Does he think that the solution, namely once again an insect population that is up-to-date, should only be sought in nature reserves? Or does he think that this urbanization has made it much more urgent for more nature to come into the agricultural area as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u6	Mrs Bromet has made an interesting point. I have also tried to indicate this in my contribution, namely that there are several factors. What I see in the discussion is that it is being pointed out very quickly, and I hear that in the contribution of GroenLinks to agriculture. You mentioned fertilizers and plant protection products. I think it is so beautiful of the Deltaplan Biodiversity that it looks at several solutions. And yes, our party would also like to see a lot more insects in this world, because I also indicated at the beginning of my speech that this is important for the balance in our society. Let me give you a practical example. I was at work recently in Drenthe. I was there in a beautiful recreation park that is decorated to recreate in nature and with nature. There nature organisations in this case have raised the level of water on the one hand, the state forest management organisation on the other hand and the natural monuments on the other. Then what's gonna happen? Recreants cannot recreate in spring due to the high water level and in summer the mosquito population increases so fast that people simply leave. I think if you're twisting the buttons of our creation, there will be consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u7	I had asked whether Mr Geurts thought that there should also be more room for nature in the agricultural area, but I cannot get an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u8	I'm sorry, but then Mrs Bromet didn't listen very well to my speech. I even talked about woodwalls. If you look at what we, as CDA, have contributed in recent years and decades, including in the common agricultural policy, you will see that we consider it very important to preserve natural elements. But we also know the Minister's reaction, namely that it is very difficult to implement this in the Netherlands in the short term. So yes, the CDA thinks that's very important. I would like to work with GroenLinks in order to do this better and not to turn it against each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u9	We're only allowed to ask very few questions, so I'm trying to keep it sharp with the CDA. When the Party for Animals pointed out the importance of biodiversity in the cities, we were choked away years ago by the CDA: oh, does the Party want a protection and tile ban for the Animals? Now we are debating the major damage that agriculture is causing to biodiversity, and the CDA says: no, we have to look for it in the cities. One: is the CDA really gonna do that? And two: why does the CDA choose to put away a renowned institute like the Planning Office for the Environment here in one breath as people who only magic a little bit with numbers? Because that's what the CDA did just at the beginning of the contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u10	This seems to me to be an interruption which has been prepared without listening to my text. I have a good memory, especially when it comes to what I said myself in the years in which I am a Member of Parliament. I don't think I've ever used the words that Mrs Ouwehand is doing here. She's talking about decades ago. I just mentioned the numbers when it comes to the decline of agricultural land. Yes, in 1950 the CDA, the predecessors of the CDA at that time, thought differently. The point, I say to Mrs Ouwehand, is that we are giving each other our hands and that we are trying to improve biodiversity in the Netherlands. That is why I am so pleased with the Delta Plan, with which people are reaching out to each other and working towards improvement. Yes, it can always be better, but let's work on that improvement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u11	This is exactly why you can't work with the CDA. Working with a party that denies what the Planning Bureau writes, namely that agriculture is an important cause. Working with a party that stops all attempts to reduce agricultural poison. Co-operate with a batch that wants to put the whole country full of manure plants. So that's not gonna work. Collaboration can only be achieved if the frameworks are respected. This means that this minister, who is responsible for biodiversity in the Netherlands, must achieve the goals that CDA Minister Verburg has written down. If the CDA comes back from that now and even tries to blackmail the PBL, then you can't work with a party like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u12	That's more of an opinion. Mrs Ouwehand has also said to us, the CDA, and to me, as a person, the archenemy. It will be. It's about working together in this society. If you had listened carefully to my text, but Mrs Ouwehand did not do so, you would have heard that I indicated that there are several factors. I do not deny that agriculture and rural development are also a factor. So, yes, don't use this rabid language. It doesn't bring you anything, it doesn't bring anything to society, and it doesn't bring anything to the bugs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u13	Thank you, Mr. Geurts. I now give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u14	Mr. Chairman. "The best time to plant a tree is twenty years ago, but the second best moment is today." Confucius' statement has a lot in it: if you want to protect what is of value, it is important to start on time. The second thing you can learn from it is that although you can linger in "we should have done it differently," it is important to act at the time when, in this case, you read the pieces and let them penetrate what is happening and what is your own responsibility. Today we are talking about biodiversity. For those who don't know that, biodiversity is life on Earth. The Party for Animals believes that all life on earth has its value in itself, regardless of its usefulness to man. The most important thing we need to learn as a society is that there are other living beings who have as important interests as man himself. For us it is about five minutes earlier to be home when you are once again able to sacrifice nature for asphalt or 130 km/h ride. But for that life that has to move, it's literally death. The human interests that always prevail are not life-threatening interests. It's not like we're going to die if we don't get to drive 130 km/h or if that piece of asphalt doesn't go through or if there's another office building because we don't like that empty building. For people, it's very often fatal interests, but we kill the rest of our lives. The trees disappear, the insects disappear, the birds disappear: everything has to die. If we reflect on that, you should, on the basis of that principle alone, give much more value to nature. But even if you don't want to, if you don't want to acknowledge that the other life on earth just has its interests and deserves respect from us, then you could still think about the consequences for ourselves. We are fully dependent on biodiversity. The President said the other day when I asked for a debate on how biodiversity and the crisis in it threatens the future of our food worldwide: perhaps you should have a cup of coffee with your colleagues and then make another proposal for a debate. Coffee is one of the things we'll lose if we don't recover biodiversity. 80% of food crops depend on pollinators like the bee. How can we boast that we are the most intelligent species on Earth and so drastically destroy our own habitat? I really don't understand. Nor can I explain it to people who ask me how it is possible for politics to agree to this. How is that possible? I think the explanation is that working together here, in this country, is already seen as a profit, and that LTO needs to be satisfied. No, if LTO doesn't want to cooperate, it's not going to work with biodiversity. Hello, LTO is an interest organization! And the Minister is responsible for protecting biodiversity. The only good reason to lower your targets, which has happened over the past few decades, is that it might have been a bit of a bad thing: oh, we thought the loss of biodiversity was a big drama, but we now have figures showing that everything worked out; so we don't need anything anymore. But that was not the case. Biodiversity targets have not been met. These are goals that VVD, D66 and the Party of Labour under Purple II have agreed, and later they were CDA, Party of Labour and Christian Union. So the Minister can just say to this Chamber: hello, I'm responsible, so we're going to do it as it should and not sit back and wait for voluntary cooperation in a biodiversity plan that has no obligation whatsoever. There must be an end to agricultural poison, there must be an end to the fertilization of our nature, and the Minister must act. I brought a tree, which I would like to offer to the Minister at the end of the debate. This is her chance. The second best moment to plant a tree is today. The message is: the Minister must show today what responsibility she takes in addition to these voluntary agreements in the delta plan between nature organisations and the sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u15	I will try to put the question very briefly. Are Mrs. Ouwehand and the Party for Animals willing to work together in this country to achieve goals?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u16	Certainly, but as long as the parties that hold the majority choose to make the interests of LTO more important than the public interest of our nature, there is no discussion possible. The Animal Party says: you must protect nature, and so you must start at the beginning; the government must ensure that agricultural poison is banned and that overfertilisation is stopped. If the CDA does not share that, then the Party for the Animals cannot work together, because the ball is here and not at a table between nature organisations and LTO.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u17	I understand from this answer that working together with the Party for Animals means that it has to be under the conditions where the Party for Animals wants to end. Anyone who wants to cooperate with the Party for Animals will have to turn everything in and it will have to be done on the lines of the Party for Animals. That is not going to land in this society, I say to Mrs Ouwehand. I hope she understands that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u18	I wish. The line of the Party for Animals is that we respect that the other life on earth has interests and that we cannot flatten it. That's the Line of the Party for Animals. The CDA's nowhere near there. What I'm reading here are the proposals of CDA Minister Verburg. I'll read them to you. "By 2010 and beyond, the decline in biodiversity in the Netherlands will be stopped, and by 2020 there will be sustainable conditions for the survival of all species and populations that have occurred naturally in our country in the recent past (1982).' That was the CDA's promise. But that gets in the way of agriculture, and so the CDA comes back to it and the Party for Animals is now listed here as a party that wants a lot of impossible things. You must keep your own promises. It's what the voters deserve, and that's what nature deserves.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u19	Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand. I now give the floor to Mr Weverling on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is a beautiful country. In our country we can live beautifully, work beautifully and enjoy the nature and the green that Holland is rich. We need to protect this in order to pass it on to our children. Today we are talking about insect mortality in the Netherlands. Insects are very important for a well-functioning ecosystem. Recently there have been regular reports in the news that insects in the Netherlands are not doing well. As far as the VVD is concerned, we need to know what we're talking about before we draw any conclusions. The Wageningen University has also concluded that important knowledge gaps still need to be filled. It is in our general interest to maintain biodiversity in the Netherlands. This is important not only for nature in the Netherlands, but also for our farmers, our growers and the food supply. These groups need robust biodiversity for their business operations. That is why we also see that these groups are committed to making biodiversity stronger, for example through nature-inclusive agriculture. The fact that there are several initiatives aimed at improving biodiversity is valuable, precisely because they are broad coalitions. I will mention a number of them. The Bee Strategies, in which 40 parties participate, set three objectives: promoting biodiversity, better interaction between agriculture and nature, and helping to improve honeybee health. 80 measures should improve the living environment of bees and increase biodiversity. It should be noted, however, that, if we want to make this a success, we must also fight a number of natural enemies of the bee. One of these is, for example, the varroa mite. The VVD has drawn attention to this before. In the past, the minister didn't seem so enthusiastic about tackling this mite. I call on the Minister to take real steps to combat this. A few months ago, there was also the Deltaplan Biodiversity Restoration, a fine initiative to which many parties contributed without interference from the government. That's worth a compliment. The Parties are committed to restoring the variety of species and ecosystems. In this Deltaplan there is a broad, joint approach of farmers, land managers, individuals and researchers. In the meantime, we have also received the Minister's agricultural vision. There is a reason why this vision focuses on the following: an agriculture based on a more circular raw material flow in which waste is avoided or reused, farmers are given a better position in the chain and the soil is given more attention. This is certainly important for the strengthening of biodiversity. As I said, soil is the basis of good biodiversity. Maintaining and improving soil quality is of great importance. Sustainable soil management helps to strengthen quality and ensures better soil fertility, better crops and better water quality. The VVD regularly draws attention to conflicting regulations, including in the area of soil quality. If we're gonna improve our business, we're gonna have to do it in this house. An example of this is the method of spreading solid manure and fertilizers. The first is clearly better for biodiversity. In addition, all kinds of home-garden and kitchen products are banned for the control of weeds, so that people get to work with vinegar and the burner, for example. That's not good for soil life either. Can the Minister reflect on this and indicate whether she too feels that farmers who want to contribute to the enhancement of biodiversity are sometimes hampered by regulation and what to do about it? Mr President, I will conclude. No one is opposed to strengthening biodiversity. That is precisely why we must stand alongside each other and not against each other. I therefore find it inspiring that groups that sometimes seem to have conflicting interests cooperate in this society. They must, however, continue to seek cooperation with each other and ensure that concrete measures are put on the table with which we can move forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u21	I would like to go back to the beginning of Mr Weverling's speech: is there a problem with insect mortality? Mr Weverling said that there are reports and Wageningen says that there are gaps. Wageningen also says that research that says there is a major problem with insect mortality is correct and sound. Does Mr Weverling therefore recognise that science is currently giving the message that our insects are in bad shape and that we need to do something about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u22	We certainly need to ensure a more robust biodiversity. I referred to the fact that, for example, the German investigations have identified a specific area and a specific species. So we have to prevent knowledge gaps. This monitoring is therefore very important, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u23	Mr President, I will try to put the question for you shorter and simpler for Mr Weverling. Does the VVD recognise that there is a decline in insects in the Netherlands and that this is problematic?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u24	The VVD recognises that we need to ensure robust biodiversity and that there are indeed fewer insects on some fronts. In the various studies, for example, you can see that this is true for certain species and that certain species are growing. So I do not agree with you very much, Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u25	The accusation that I'm making the CDA, I'm also making the VVD. I wish things were different, but it was a VVD cabinet that stated in 2000 that agriculture would take full account of human, animal and ecosystem safety and health in ten years, i.e. in 2010, and that 10% would be organic. We're at 3,9% in 2019. Does the VVD feel called to do more? A second question: if the VVD praises the fact that nature organisations and LTO are sitting at that table together, how credible does the VVD find LTO, who actively lobbied during these talks against a decision by the Minister to agree to a European restriction of three types of agricultural poison? Does the VVD itself find that credible?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u26	I think it's very good to work with each other. That's why that Deltaplan Biodiversity is just right. For example, I also heard what Mrs Bromet has just said, but in our case I think we can just say that the glass is half full. Let us be glad that all these different parties have a certain degree of consensus, that there is awareness and that we are jointly trying to ensure that we take steps in that biodiversity. That's already a profit, as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u27	I would like to reply to my first question: I would like another response to the VVD's promise that by 2010 agriculture would take full account of ecosystems. And then back to LTO again. The VVD says it's good that they're at the table together. The analyses have for years been that agricultural poison is one of the main causes of insect mortality. LTO sits at the table with well-intentioned nature conservationists and in the meantime sets up a lobby in the direction of politics to shake down that difficult-to-do restriction of agricultural poison...................................................................................................................................................................................... LTO is actively trying to kick that little step down. How credible is LTO's commitment to biodiversity protection?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u28	I'm not here to be LTO spokesperson. All I have said is that we are pleased that the Delta Plan on Biodiversity Restoration is being carried so widely and that there is a degree of consensus. I saw a nice debate on TV yesterday from Loppersum. I was proud of the farmers who were so well able to justify why they are doing what they are doing. They provide food. They make sure we can all eat together, and they do it in a fantastic way. I would advise you to look back on that one more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u29	Mrs Ouwehand, of course, feels called upon to respond to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u30	Yes. There was a pig farmer there who was proud to be able to increase production. Another promise that hasn't been made. The piglets' mortality would be reduced in ten years. That didn't work. We're just gonna get another five years. I note that I do not get an answer to my question as to why the VVD thinks she can get away with it so easily. In the year 2000, she already agreed that agriculture would take full account of ecosystems in ten years' time. Apparently, that reflection is painful.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u31	Thank you. I see you looking at me, Mr. Weverling, so I...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u32	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u33	Okay, thank you. But Mr. De Groot, did you have a question? I thought it was your turn, because you are.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u34	I shall now turn to Mr Futselaar's questions, because I did not think the answer was entirely satisfactory. Since 1980, 67% of wild bees have disappeared in the Netherlands, as well as 75% of butterflies and 35% of ground beetles. So I assume that the VVD recognises that biodiversity is under real pressure and that what is in the German study also applies to the Netherlands, as the Minister also indicated in the written reply. That is why I have a question for the VVD about the causes. In the round table that D66 organised, but also in later scientific publications, it has been made very plausible that we need to think carefully about the farming methods that we now have, because they are partly responsible for the decline in biodiversity. How does the VVD feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u35	The VVD is enthusiastic about the vision that now lies in order to achieve more circular agriculture, more circular economy. I think we can find each other in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u36	Yeah, a vision's nice. But it's on paper. Ultimately, it's about taking small but meaningful steps, with consequences. Is the VVD prepared, for example, in the area of manure policy or plant protection policy, to take those small, meaningful steps in the transition to circular agriculture?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u37	The VVD is prepared to see how we can help society, society, and the economy, above all; we are simply ensuring that we can continue to provide good nutrition. So we always like to have that conversation. Farmers and people in horticulture are very well aware of the importance of biodiversity. They must also pass on society to their children themselves. You can always talk to us about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u38	Mr Weverling's contribution almost feels like a warm bath.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u39	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u40	But it's a little un-VVD-like. It is said that there is awareness, there is consensus. But the VVD is really the party to take action, of course. What exactly does the VVD want with the decline in biodiversity? What does the VVD really want to do to stop it? Concrete measures, which the VVD always claims to be so strong in.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u41	I am glad that our argument is so appreciated, that it also sounded like music to the ears. We welcome the fact that so many parties are working together and that everyone is aware of the measures to be taken to make biodiversity more robust. We need to support that with each other. I said to the Minister: there is conflicting regulation, and we need to look very consciously at it. In the end, it is a question of giving farmers and gardeners the opportunity to take care of your food and my food.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u42	First of all, I should like to say that I do not hear specific measures in the sphere of 'doing' in Mr Weverling's reply. Let me give you a concrete example: lily growing. There are really many kilos of poison used to sterilize the soil as it were, to dispose of fungi and from crawling, creeping and humming crooked. We gotta get it all out! Does Mr Weverling think that the cultivation of lily, as currently taking place in the Netherlands, is acceptable for biodiversity?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u43	Of course, we can go through all kinds of crops together. I note that we in the Netherlands are not only great in the cultivation of fruit and vegetables, but also simply take good steps in the cultivation of ornamental plants. I believe that this has been discussed, I believe in an AA or in the arrangement of work, so we are going to discuss this at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u44	Thank you, Mr. Weverling. I now give the floor to Mr De Groot on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u45	Mr. Chairman. A year and a half ago, the Code red was for nature as a result of an alarming German study on insect mortality. For some years now we have been concerned about the disappearance of the meadow birds. This German study made it clear that their food has slowly disappeared. Young meadow birds eat insects and worms, I say. A hungry winter for the meadowbirds is going on for decades and it's not going to be spring. On the basis of that Code red, D66 initiated a hearing. We invited the top of Dutch science there to talk about the causes of insect mortality. At that time, they were able to make it plausible that agriculture plays an important role in this, inter alia by reducing habitats, manure policy and pesticides. In recent months, a number of studies have been added to further support this link. So we can't get around it anymore. Agriculture's up. Fortunately, there is also good news. Since Code red, there has been a bee strategy, a vision of circular agriculture and the Deltaplan Biodiversity Recovery. From this place, I also saluted the authors of it. But that doesn't save a mosquito. It is now about starting with small, tangible, meaningful steps that are going to break down barriers and which we can learn from, even though they will create friction here and there. Then I'm talking about the small wins. D66 looks at this minister to take these steps. For inspiration, I make three suggestions. Plant protection products are widely used in the Netherlands as part of our agricultural methods. Usually there is not even an organism that needs to be combated. As a result, a little farmer has already lost €20,000 per year to pesticides. So the less he needs to use, the more there is left for his family. Over the last 70 years, we've learned how to use plant protection system. That is why small, meaningful steps are needed here. I have two questions for the Minister. The first question is whether, when carrying out the motion of the undersigned on the restriction of arthropods, she would like to complete the Ctgb assessment by May already for the purposes referred to in the motion? Small step, big effect! The second question is bigger. How can we achieve a change where farmers only use pesticides in the last instance, as is the case in large parts of greenhouse horticulture? Mr. Chairman. The second suggestion is that of manure policy. Last week, a study by the University of Groningen showed that the upper layer of meadows is hardened as fertilizers. The red worms don't get through that anymore and are then lost as bird feed. Is the Minister prepared to make the manure policy grazing bird-proof? Then the third suggestion: the grass. For D66 it is no longer of this time to tear the grass once every six years. Especially if we want to use grass to capture CO, we have to leave it alone. We have a climate agreement for a reason. An old turf may yield a little less protein, but can be better against wet and dry times. The diversity of grassland gives insects and meadow birds a chance of survival. Is the Minister prepared to counter the tearing of grasslands? Mr. Chairman. I will conclude with three general questions. Is the Minister prepared to make its responsibility for biodiversity restoration an integral part of the broad government policy? Then there's my second question. The delta plan must go with several cabinets. How does the Minister intend to organise this long-term commitment of the Empire to the delta plan? And the third question: by how many means will the Minister strengthen the monitoring of insects in the National Meetnet Insects? Mr. Chairman. It's almost springtime. Let the hunger winter for the insects be over quickly and start with small, meaningful steps. D66 has made three suggestions to you. If there is a need for more solutions for the future, I would like to hear it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u46	Thank you, Mr. De Groot. Mrs Ouwehand, we have just agreed on the number of interruptions. You don't agree. I don't want to make a fuss about that either. I'd like to... No, Mr. Graus, I'm talking to Mrs. Ouwehand. Good morning, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u47	Good morning, Madam President. She can have my interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u48	But that's not how it works. Then you really must make a proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure. I'll allow one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u49	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you to Mr Graus. My question concerns the authorisation of pesticides. D66 was previously on the line of the Party for the Animals, but recently agreed to an extended authorisation of satsumas, while D66 itself also asked for a restriction on its application. We saw yesterday that D66 and even the VVD in the European Parliament said that there should be a complete ban on all neonicotinoids and neonicotinoid substances, regardless of what EFSA says. I was very pleased about that. That vote was in the European Parliament. D66 was before. Can we please count on the same position of D66 here in this house?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u50	The question evokes confusion, because neonicotinoids are something other than arthropods. It was D66 who tabled a motion here to restrict the use of fertilizers in agriculture. That is an important step. These are small, meaningful steps, because it is a question of reducing the use of plant protection products. That was a very clear statement from the Chamber. The question to the Minister is whether she is prepared to implement that motion from June 2018 and, therefore, accelerate it, given the delay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u51	Then I'll go see Mrs. Bromet. Sorry, Mrs. Ouwehand, I'm going to Mrs. Bromet. No, Mrs. Ouwehand, you have no more rights than the rest. Nor can you take over any interruptions from others. That's not how it works. No, you can't, Mr. Graus. Oh, now you're passing on the question to Mr. Graus. I can't believe it. Then I'll go see Mrs. Bromet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u52	I also have a question about pomelos. Glyphosate is that poison that is currently coloring our meadows yellow and helping farmers to remove crops that are in the way. D66 has indeed tabled a motion to counter that. This is only extremely difficult to regulate, because we were not against it, but a majority in the Chamber have previously agreed to an extension of the authorization of this poison. Is D66 ready to agree on a proposal by GroenLinks to not allow the next authorisation of pomelos? 'Cause we'll get rid of everything. Then we will no longer have to go in complicated ways and do exactly what other European countries have done to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u53	I would like to give Mrs Bromet two things. The first is that you have to make a distinction. The substance shall be authorised at European level on the basis of scientific advice. Who are we to think otherwise? D66 said, however, that if there is even one study that gives rise to rethinking and saying no to the substance. In addition, D66 has been committed to doing so day by day to day to reduce the use of the means in which arthropods are contained. That's what we're about as the Netherlands. In it GroenLinks and D66 find each other. We are not going to anticipate what will happen in five years' time, but I am convinced that the evidence against arthropods will accumulate. I have good hope that this will not lead to an extension in five years' time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u54	I see that the cooperation between Mrs Ouwehand and Mr Graus is going very well. But first, Mrs Bromet wants to ask a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u55	I don't understand D66. On the one hand, D66 says he wants a stop on the yellow fields to which the inhabitants of the Netherlands are annoying. On the other hand, D66 says that it has not yet been proven to be harmful. Why did D66 propose to stop spraying those meadows? Is that just to make citizens feel good, or is that just to control insect mortality?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u56	You're talking about the reason. The reason is that it is a totally unnecessary use of a pesticide. That grassland isn't sick at all. There is no reason to apply it there. It is therefore a completely unnecessary use of a plant protection product. That's why. It's too easy to apply it this way. In any case, we have to be very critical about the tearing of grassland, but that is why I have just indicated that all the systematic use of plant protection products should be reduced, because that is the only way we will get another agriculture that will work from a healthy soil.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u57	I don't think it's satisfactory. What do you mean it's a significant step? You first admitted that shit to be of service to the business that's nice for the election but then you tell me how bad that is. That's from eating both sides. This is where choices have to be made. It's crap. I've filed a motion to replace all chemical variants with non-chemical ones where possible. I would also like to have a response from the Minister in a moment. Then back me up on that, but don't go both ways. You know as well as I do it's bullshit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u58	We find each other in the fact that wherever possible, you have to replace the chemical variants with either biological or microbiological variants. One development is that industry is already working with nature to ensure that crops remain healthy. Mr Graus and I fully agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u59	None of that is necessary anymore. This is demonstrated, for example, by the fact that municipalities often fight weeds with steam, vinegar or other things in hardened areas. So we don't need that chemical shit anymore. They are already working on natural remedies such as turmeric against cancer. We should go with the time and not stick around by supporting all those manufacturers who manufacture this mess.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u60	It was also D66, I say to Mr Graus of the PVV, who was at the basis of reducing the use of fertilizers on hardened soils, just as D66 is now at the basis of the reduction of fertilizers in agriculture.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u61	In my opinion, Mr De Groot semolina is speaking. The characteristic of semolina is that it fills very well, but does not allow itself to be defined exactly how it tastes. This is also the case, in my view, with Mr De Groot's contribution. With "small meaningful steps" we can't get there. Look at the tens of percent loss of biomass from insects. And then Mr De Groot comes up with "small, meaningful steps." Just add butter to the fish. Is Mr De Groot of D66 in favour of the banning of fertilizers, in line with the previous question? I have a second question, which I also asked Mr Weverling. Does Mr De Groot think that lily cultivation can continue in the same way in the Netherlands, or that it really needs to be changed?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u62	The use of arthropods should be reduced, as much as possible. That's the position of D66. If there is even one scientific reason to ban it, then we must do so. The question of lily cultivation has also asked D66 critical questions. It cannot be that a large number of substances, some of which come from lily cultivation, end up on the gardens, in the lungs and in the household dust of the people. That is absolutely unacceptable. So that's where we'll find each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u63	I would like to make the last point when we talk about plant protection products next month. And it's "reduce as much as possible" that's bringing the use to zero. Does Mr De Groot share that view?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u64	Yeah, if we can do that to zero, we should definitely do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u65	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Graus on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u66	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, a few compliments to the Minister, first of all, that she will continue to participate in the tree-planting day. However, I would like to see a predecessor who has also promised that we will also plant trees with farmers who want to, in order to create shades for meadow-goers. It would be very nice if the Minister were to take care of that, because a lot of farmers would find it quite funny and fun to cooperate. That's how you create shadow spots. Animals often suffer more from heat, from heat stress and heat than from cold. We shouldn't forget that. I always hate seeing animals standing in the burning sun. Back in the day, when I was a baby, I always thought the milk would get sour, but it doesn't turn out to be. I hope the Minister will be committed to this. The second compliment concerns the situation in which a dog was held unnecessarily long in a procedure. If I do not want to wait for the debate, I will call the Minister's colleagues bilaterally. Then you'll see how all that gets picked up. I would also like to congratulate you on this: that not everything is taking place here, in the plenary, but that officials and other people from the minister's ministry are also willing to help to get a single doggy that is micromanagement..................................................................................................................................................................................................... I appreciate that very much, and I thank you for that. Madam President. The PVV has been worried about insects and pollinators in the Netherlands for a long time. Together with Lutz Jacobi of the PvdA I still miss her we have taken action for the bees. We were really laughed at by a lot of people back then, including MPs. Even in my own group, they thought I was going crazy because I was suddenly talking about bee mortality. That was 12 years ago. That's how serious we thought it was at the time. Fortunately, several motions have been passed. We have here a beautiful beekeeper, the first parliamentary beekeeper, where the animals do not suffer from agricultural poison or mite, where they can thrive and multiply considerably. A motion was also adopted by Mr Graus asking the government to examine which chemicals could be replaced by non-chemical variants. I'd like to get an update on that. I was talking about it in the interrupting debate with Mr. De Groot of D66. The PVV also wants to know the effects of the mandatory manure injection on soil life and insect status. It seems that there are many side-effects of the injection: damage to the turf and destruction of meadowbird nests, but also that meadowbirds can no longer find worms and other soil life, even for their chicks. Moreover, bad germs seem to thrive better because the manure has not been exposed to sunlight. I'd like to get a response from the Minister, if that's possible. Mr. Chairman. A lot has already been said, so I will turn to some points that have not been mentioned. We would have liked a zero reading. The motion on this by Mr Madlener and myself was unfortunately not adopted. Perhaps the Minister can still do that. I'd really like to start with a zero reading. The woodwalls have to come back. I know that the Party for Animals has often asked for this. [[Sentence could not be parsed: De houtwallen moeten ook bij- en bestuivervriendelijk zijn.]] Let us talk about pollinators and not just bees, because we should not be too one-sided. On pollination-friendly berm management, I said: do so in consultation with the Association of Dutch Municipalities. Many municipalities already do pollination-friendly berm management, but a lot of municipalities just don't care about that. They just laugh at it and say, "Do you care about insects?" But they don't realize that every bug is at the beginning of the food cycle. Those people don't know half the shelves are gonna be empty. I would also ask the Minister to consider whether there could be a knowledge centre for rodent management. I also want to have researched the role of rodents in terms of biodiversity, including bee biodiversity. If the Minister cannot or will not undertake to do so, I will possibly refer this to the Chamber. Finally, Madam President. We fight brown rats and foxes and the like. I think that's a little weird. We've been fighting them for over a century, perhaps for centuries, when that's the kind of animals that eat eggs. First these animals are hunted and killed, and now there is a goose problem and they have to kill live geese. Seriously, we have to stop doing that. Leave nature a little more alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u67	Thank you, Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u68	Dr. Weijman calls the rat an evolution champion. As such, we need to deal with this better.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u69	Thank you, Mr. Graus. I now turn to Mr Futselaar on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Insect mortality is a real and serious problem. Worldwide, 40% of insects are declining and a third of them are under threat. The total biomass of insects decreases by 2.5% each year. The very alarming investigations from Germany have been confirmed by our own Wageningen and there is no reason to assume that it is not as serious here. Less insects means fewer birds and ultimately threatens entire ecosystems. It is not an exaggeration to speak of a crisis. But unlike many other crises, this is one where we can do something relatively easily. The monoculture of the Dutch landscape eventually creates a desert for insect species. Then I am indeed looking at agriculture, but also at the government. For example, every new road or road that is being repaired should have a flowery road barrier. Whether it's a national road or a provincial road or a municipal road, that could have been done by now. Although it provides higher management costs, it pays off in biodiversity. Something similar can be done at business sites. The Deltaplan Biodiversity Restoration says some pretty sensible things about this, but the Minister's reaction is actually confined to large waters and so on, while this is something where the government could easily make a big hit. The same goes for the cities. There is often a lot of savings in green management. Easiest maintenance has been chosen. This has also created a kind of monoculture. It could be much more diverse. Mr. Chairman. Let's face it, we're not getting out of agriculture. Nothing I'm gonna say about that is gonna be a surprise. It's about field edges, wood walls, herbal grass instead of that eternal English rai grass. The Minister will undoubtedly say: I agree with him and we are going to take that into account in the common agricultural policy. Of course, biodiversity must be at the heart of this, but we cannot wait a few years until there is a new CAP. We will now have to take action to make these successes. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come to what's probably the biggest cause of insect mortality. Last summer I was in the hamlet of Lhee in the municipality of Westerveld with people who live right next to a lily field where poison is constantly sprayed. These people are very concerned about the pesticides used. Apart from the question of whether or not it was safe, when it was sprayed windows and doors had to be closed and the laundry had to be retrieved. It would be sprayed with poison. Even if it doesn't kill you, it's no fun in your laundry, I can tell you. Those living in the neighbourhood have taken samples themselves, which show that there are a lot of substances in their environment that do not belong there naturally, including substances that should have been banned since the 1970s. So I understand very well that these people are worried. Here comes the research on pesticides and local residents, which we do not yet have, but whose conclusions have already been reached by the media, and they are also worrying. I would like to ask the Minister when we will have the investigation. Can the Commission promise that this will be done at least for the general consultation of plant protection products? Mr. Chairman. This debate is not about residents, it's about insects. But on the other side of that same lily field in Lhee begins the Dwingelderveld, a Natura 2000 area, a national park and in my opinion one of the most beautiful pieces of the Netherlands. Where you can discuss the effects of pesticides on people, you can't really do that when it comes to the effects on insects, because pesticides are designed to kill insects. I would like to ask the Minister what the one side of the Chamber calls crop pesticides and what the other side of the Chamber calls agricultural poison. I don't find the language struggle very interesting. Does the Minister agree with the SP that any approach to insect mortality that is not aimed at limiting the means designed to promote insect mortality has failed in advance and that, if we are serious about combating insect mortality, we must seriously restrict the use of plant protection products? If the Minister thinks so, what specific proposals does she intend to make? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u71	Thank you, Mr. Fuzzler. I now give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is in nature that we recognize the greatness of God's creation. Whether it's colossal trees or small insects, nature has intrinsic value. We have been given the wonderful task of taking care of that creation. Unfortunately, we are far from being able to do so. Environmental pollution and economic activities affect nature, and the species wealth in our country is under pressure. If we harm nature, we harm our environment, and with it, we harm ourselves. If insect populations decrease, it also affects our food production. Think of pollinating crops and soil life. It is therefore very important to reverse the tide. I am pleased to see that there is now a widely supported Deltaplan Biodiversity. In the political and social debate, where the contradictions between nature and agriculture have long been magnified, civil society organisations here show that they want to build bridges. Together they want to put their shoulders on the restoration of species wealth in our country. In addition, there is also a task in public space. In its response to the plan, the Minister made an explicit link with the elaboration of the vision for circular agriculture. And indeed, it is good that in this vision there is also a lot of attention to the restoration of species richness, such as insect populations. "Cring farming" is in the vision, "takes account of the boundaries of the ecosystem." I would like to say for myself: should actually be part of the ecosystem. These include careful use of natural resources, sustainable soil management and minimising emissions from fertiliser and plant protection. Farmers manage a large part of our landscape, and we can only achieve biodiversity recovery together with them. I see growing awareness among farmers, for example when it comes to soil management. However, this focus on biodiversity cannot come off the ground without a good income model for farmers. That is why I am pleased that agreements have been reached on this subject in the government agreement. We want farmers to be better placed in the chain and rewarded for social achievements. Mr. Chairman. On the agenda is a report from Wageningen University. One of the conclusions is that although almost all scientists agree that insect populations are decreasing, we do not know exactly how bad the insect populations in the Netherlands are now. There are still many knowledge gaps, for example because there is no good network for monitoring. When does the Minister come forward with proposals for this? Does it have sufficient resources for this? It is important that further research goes hand in hand with concrete measures. We can't wait. Based on the latest insights, recovery strategies should be developed and tried out in pilots for different area types. That is one of the recommendations. Does the Minister accept this recommendation? The Minister also indicated that he would continue to work on the reform of manure policy. My question is: is biodiversity recovery also part of that? When it comes to reducing emissions from greenhouse horticulture, major steps are being taken, and that is commendable. At the same time, there is a lot of discussion about the authorisation of plant protection products. EFSA and Ctgb should lead in this process, including a movement towards trits prevention, natural substances and, ultimately, chemicals. Mr. Chairman. Do we know how the Netherlands performs in relation to countries like Germany and Denmark? Would the Minister like to map this? In order to achieve the objectives of the Water Framework Directive, also important for biodiversity, it is important that the Ministries of LNV, IenW and VWS work together and coordinate their policies. If this happens enough, I ask the Minister. Are other ministries also committed to the Deltaplan Biodiversity? I'm rounding up. A small but, in my opinion, important point, which we are about to discuss in general consultation, is the lease policy. Many land are spent on leases, including by churches, for example. Prices should be real and leases should be long-term, but we know that this is not always the case, let alone that there is room for farmers to invest in biodiversity. My question to the Minister is whether she would like to include this in her lease letter. I know that tomorrow at the church in Reduzum a contract is signed between the church and a number of farmers in the area of agricultural nature management, and I think that is a very nice development. I'd like to see a lot more of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u73	Mrs Faber started her story with: environmental pollution and economic activities lead to a reduction in biodiversity. One of these economic activities is agriculture. Does Mrs Dik-Faber agree with D66 that agriculture is a co-cause of the decline in biodiversity?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u74	I think the conclusions of the Wageningen University report are very clear about this. Biodiversity is declining. Agriculture is indeed an important cause of this. I share that conclusion. At the same time, I am very pleased with the Delta Plan on Biodiversity, which included farmers, at least their representatives, in order to start that recovery. Agriculture is being addressed, but I think agriculture is picking up the gauntlet. I think that's a good development.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u75	Thanks for the answer, all of a sudden. Is the Christian Union willing to think and cooperate in small steps that have a major impact on helping this development towards greater biodiversity from time to time?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u76	Yes, of course I am happy to think from this room and see how we can take steps. At the same time, we cannot impose it on farmers from this Chamber, if we do not do so together with them, if farmers do not get a perspective, know what to do and get a fair price for it. That's always the dilemma we run into. So, yeah, we're gonna take steps. Yes, I think we have a responsibility in this Chamber too. But I'd like to do that with the farmers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u77	Thank you very much, Mrs Dik-Faber. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Moorlag on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will start with a quote from a letter from the Minister of 22 November 2018: "Nature policy is slowly paying off in the Netherlands." At the same time, we see a German study which states that 75% of the biomass of insects has disappeared. A study has been carried out by Australian and Chinese scientists who say that 40% of insect species are threatened with extinction. And here in the Chamber, Mr De Groot, says that 'yes, we should perhaps have the willingness to take small steps'. My question to the Minister is what sense of problem and urgency she has. Does it share the view that small steps should be taken here? Or does it consider the situation to be so problematic and urgent that greater steps need to be taken? I would also like to ask this in the light of Mrs Dik-Faber's contribution, which I heard say that we are in fact seriously lacking in the care for our creation. Does the Minister share this view and what conclusion does it draw? Mr. Chairman. Insects form the basis of ecosystems in the world. I'm sitting here with a pranged mind. Because the political reality, if you look at the political relations in the coalition, is that today there is no more to it than taking those small steps. We have to establish here that this is just a harsh reality. The basis of these small steps is that you know exactly what happens to the insect populations in the Netherlands. A report by Wageningen University shows that we do not have sufficient insight into the developments in the agricultural area. A professional monitoring programme is advocated as there is virtually no information available on the trends of insects in the agricultural areas. I understand that the Minister intends to facilitate this and that money will be made available for it. Will money be available for a long-term program to monitor that? 'Cause with a one-time reading, you're not gonna be there. It is important that the trends are seen. Does the Minister share that view? Mr. Chairman. Then the Deltaplan Biodiversity. I think it's a reality that you need to get all the parties involved to make adjustments to our agricultural system, so I embrace that initiative. Is the Minister prepared to support and facilitate this initiative generously so that concrete steps can be taken? Finally, Mr President, there are two other points. Firstly, despite the fact that the Delta Plan on Biodiversity deserves support, my question is whether the Minister shares the view that the government must also have the courage and the courage to set boundaries. One of these limits is to stop the use of satsumas. Is the Minister prepared to take that step in the light of the latest data? Secondly, is the Minister prepared to limit lily cultivation? To the taste of the PvdA fraction, lily cultivation as it is now taking place is not sustainable. He can't go on like this. I would like to hear what the Minister's view is and whether she intends to take action against it. In addition to the need for a joint approach, it is also necessary for the public authorities to draw clear and clear boundaries. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u79	Mr Moorlag knows that the CDA highly appreciates social initiatives. We have also brought the right to challenge into politics. Today I hear several MPs throw all kinds of plans over and over the Delta Plan Biodiversity, and some want to go over it. Does the PvdA Group agree with me that we should give space to Deltaplan Biodiversity and that social initiative and not try to put all kinds of things on top of it from a political point of view?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u80	I think that we should give this initiative room for manoeuvre, but I do not think that at the same time we should shirk our responsibilities and sit back. The government also has regulatory powers. Where certain developments are undesirable, you must also dare to take measures, even if they are considered differently in the field. I think we saw a wonderful example of that yesterday. Industry, industry, is opposed to a CO tax, but ultimately it seems that the cabinet is taking responsibility and saying: yes, we are going to impose a CO tax, because we think it is an effective instrument and because what the business community wants is not enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u81	There will be a lot of debates on climate change. Today we are talking about biodiversity in relation to insect mortality. So let us decide on that. I am specifically concerned with the following. There is a social initiative: the Deltaplan Biodiversity. A lot of parties work together in that. I see that a lot of parties here in the Chamber want to put all kinds of things over it. My specific question to the PvdA group that I did not get a concrete answer to is: is it not wise to just let that social initiative do its job and not try to ignore it again from a political point of view?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u82	It is wise to give that initiative room, but it is unwise to sit back as a government.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u83	Thank you, Mr Moorlag. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u84	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u85	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr President, we sometimes have issues on which we have quite a lot of disagreement as to whether there is a problem or not. But let me say today that I am actually testing in this Chamber that biodiversity is not doing well. There is no party that denies that. So we all feel the urgency of doing something here and together. Let me be clear as well: I feel this urgency too. Last Monday I had a meeting, organized by.This is not advertising, chairman.The Reformatorisch Dagblad about the state of biodiversity in the Netherlands. This was done in the framework of the Week of Creation. You may know that yesterday it was the Prayer Day for Crop and Labour, around which they had organized a theme. That room was full of a very diverse company: scientists, farmers, ordinary people, citizens and also people who were very active and concerned about nature. In that room we had a discussion with each other, in which we all found that the issue of biodiversity is very big, that there is an enormous task and that it is only possible for everyone to put their shoulders on it. It is not just a debate between farmers on the one hand and nature lovers or anyone else on the other. We need to look at many fronts at the same time what is needed to restore biodiversity in the Netherlands. I have also been asked what my ambition is with regard to biodiversity. It also cited what had been said in the past by predecessors. My ambition is to reduce the decline in biodiversity during this cabinet period and to use that change. That seems, if you ask me for a purpose, a little limited. But if that succeeds, I will say that with an extremely high sense of urgency, we have already achieved a considerable achievement. But the issue of biodiversity is so complex and so big. But I feel this urgency and I also feel the responsibility of getting to work on it. Quite a lot of specific questions have been asked about what we do and the like. I found a question by Mr Moorlag striking. He asked me, in response to Mrs Dik-Faber, whether I agree that we should nurture and preserve Creation, and that we are now failing in that. Let me say a full yes to that: I think that we are failing in this and I think that we should take more steps to ensure that something is going to happen there. But then I'd like to point out that it's not one button I can push to do something there. Then there are many areas where something must be done at the same time. For example, if I look at the field of agriculture alone, I can see that it has to do with legislation and regulations, with manure policy, with plant protection policy, with what financial incentives are in it, with how we set up our landscape and with the construction of our nature. But it is also about public space, with the area available for bumblebees and bees. This is almost also a spatial planning issue. I also mention our water policy. It is so incredibly many areas at the same time that it also needs to be tackled at the same time in many different areas. The more specific question is then whether agriculture has a role to play in this. Yes, agriculture has a role to play in this. Mrs Bromet herself started by saying that agriculture is an important factor in this. That's right. But I really want to emphasise that we should not only be staring blindly at agriculture, it is really wider than that. If we are to tackle this effectively, we must act at the same time in many areas, including at different levels of government, not only at the state level, but also at the provincial and municipal level.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u86	I would like to respond immediately, because I appreciate and also believe that the Minister says that she is going to be in office for the next two years, because that is what remains of her term of office, which is intended to bring about a change. That's super ambitious. If she says she feels that urgency, I believe she does. I also believe that this should be done at other levels of government. I myself, as an alderman in the municipality, have been working on this. It is very nice to see how you can take great steps through very simple interventions. But does she also admit that this includes painful political choices? Because if something else has to be done, then it also means that the interests that now prevail may have to be settled. You can't say everyone keeps what they had, but we're gonna fix it anyway. Does she agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u87	The number of interruptions in the first period is still valid today. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u88	We have to make choices; that's right. The only question is how do we make those choices? With this I make a bridge to the Deltaplan Biodiversity Recovery. This has been done with different parties at the same time. I taste a different appreciation of how that process has gone, but let me say that I think it is very powerful how that happened. There has been a transcendent search for where one could find one another. How can we ensure that we actually make a change in the development of biodiversity in such a way that parties can experience it? With regard to farmers, for example, you can also create a earning model around biodiversity. That appeals to me. Because if farmers have to do business or not, then the question for them is: can I provide for my income at all? I feel responsible for that question, too. I think that's something we should all do. But that calls for new earning models. I'm not just saying that. The PBL also said this yesterday with regard to climate and agriculture. I fully agree with that. I'm already thinking about that. Biodiversity is one of them. So yes, choices need to be made, and as far as I am concerned, we are doing so in such a way that we are also looking for ways to enable parties to take that into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u89	It is good that the Minister shares the urgency, but she is not the first to do so. I pointed out Purple II, with the VVD on board. What scares me is that the Minister says, "There's not one button." That's right, but the button she's holding has to push it. So why doesn't she? We had a round table with the initiators of that plan. There were the supermarkets and LTO. There were two things not discussed: starting from the front with an end to agricultural poison and exports. There is talk about what the Dutch consumer could contribute by paying more for food.I agree with that, but if you export 80%, it will be quite a challenge to get all these foreign consumers to do the same. So what is the Minister going to do on these two important points?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u90	In my introduction, I tried to point out that it is a whole set of measures that you all have to look at at at the same time. This is also recognised in the delta plan. There's not one button in there that needs to be pressed. I note that Mrs Ouwehand is now highlighting two. That may be, but I would like to say that it is wider than that. Let us take the issue of plant protection, because Mrs Ouwehand thinks that all plant protection should be removed. I would like to point out to her that there is also biological plant protection and that there are also low-risk products. So I don't think Mrs Ouwehand means to say generically: no plant protection products. But I'm gonna fill that out for her.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u91	I always say "agricultural poison" and then the Minister knows exactly what I mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u92	We are going to have a whole debate on plant protection products in general, which is coming up shortly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u93	Yeah, that's right. April 24th.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u94	But let me put it this way: I am in the process of agreeing with parties on a vision for plant protection and on what we are going to do in the years to come. You will soon have that vision, very soon, for the AO on plant protection. In that debate, the debate can be more structured about what we all mean by that now. The second point is exports. I'd say look at it in the front. Go to the front and see how you can already bring biodiversity into the income model of our farmers. The common agricultural policy has a very important role to play in this. So it's not just that I'm trying to make deals with supermarkets. Yeah, I'm working on that, too, so it's in different places. However, if, for example, you ensure that certain achievements are also appreciated in the CAP, for example in relation to biodiversity, then you will also enable those farmers to produce in this way. Whether that is for the domestic or the foreign market is less relevant, but you have to enable them to do so in that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u95	As far as consumers are concerned, we asked the CBL, the Central Office for Food Trade: what is your role? Because they stunt with cheap meat, they pay farmers a few cents for a cucumber. What was the answer? "The Authority Consumer and Market, or the AFM" I know a lot about "must something"... So someone else is being pointed at right away! So the Chamber didn't exactly get the impression that the supermarkets themselves are planning to help the farmers. The second question was about chemical pesticides. It is a good thing that the Minister has a vision; we are going to talk about it even more. However, I would like to ask her today whether she is prepared to take up a position as a Dutch government that many other European Member States also take: such an opinion from EFSA, but we are making our own political assessment. France protests, for example, against the extension of satsumas. The Netherlands could have done the same, but the Netherlands says that we are blindly following what EFSA says. Is the Minister prepared to propose a different position there?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u96	France has itself agreed to the five-year extension of satsumas. So you can say that you are protesting against it, but if you allow it yourself first, I do not think it is very consistent either. Let's just leave it at that. But I agree with Mrs Ouwehand that we need to look very closely at integrated plant protection. We did. There are several steps in this, where you should take the high-risk substances as the final part of the entire plant protection dossier. Are there any steps to be taken there? Yeah, I'm working on that with the parties involved. So that's where things get included. I think it is a little cheap to agree first to allow a means of protesting against its admission. I don't think that's consistent, so I don't. However, I do think that we need to explore many more ways of getting ahead of these high-risk resources. That is the path we are taking.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u97	Finally, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u98	Excuse me, France was a misguided example. However, there are Member States that are voting against proposals from the European Commission, even if there is an EFSA opinion. You can take an independent position there. It is an advisory body and then you make your own political weighting. That's what my question is about. As far as integrated plant protection is concerned, I am sorry to say that the plans are as old as the road to Rome. That is also from the time of Minister Verburg. We've already tried that trajectory. So we have to make a movement at the front, at the admission of those resources, and I really call on the Minister to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u99	With regard to the way in which the Netherlands determines its position in the SCOPAFF, where these kinds of choices are made, I have always been very clear. We follow the two bodies, EFSA and Ctgb. These are the bodies that also carry out investigations into the risks associated with these types of resources. It is always special, because sometimes one side of the Chamber is angry when I follow the advice and the other side of the Chamber is angry when I follow it. That seems to me to confirm that it is a clear guideline. Mrs Bromet asked whether biodiversity is a public task. Yes, it is, because it serves all of us. Many of your members have already indicated that we are incredibly dependent on this biodiversity, including in our food production. That link is invaluable. So that's what I'm sharing with her. She also asked me how to take my part in the Delta program. I take that part in different places. Firstly, it is true that a number of Members have already asked questions about this: we are making funds available to carry out research and to set up a monitoring system. This is crucial in order to be able to see what is happening. I would like to say, however, that it is just as much expectation management as setting up a monitoring system is one; in order to shape the monitoring well, some money is still needed. I don't have that yet; that's what I'm saying. We must therefore continue to look closely at how we are going to do this in the years to come. But that is what I have been asked for, and at least I am giving the first means of doing so. I am also helping with the governance, as we call it with an expensive word, of the elaboration of the plan. That is why we support the initiators. There is, for example, a question of shaping the earning models. That's what we're doing. With regard to quite a lot of subjects from that Deltaplan, we therefore support or facilitate where possible. Are we on course? That is why I have also made these resources available for research and monitoring, because that needs to be established at some point in time. At that point, there are still some gaps. There's still a lot of work to be done. What do I do if the dream is not realized? I'm not always a positive person, but let me give you some kind of optimism here. I think that if a dream picture is outlined in my view, I should not, of course, start to think about it now: what if it doesn't work? We have to work hard to give hands and feet to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u100	Just an enlightening question, if possible, Mr. Chairman. I did not understand this part of the Minister's speech. Did I understand correctly that the Minister indicated that she would like to carry out monitoring, but that she has not yet found any money for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u101	That was very specific about making more monitoring of the development of insects and so on. We are developing the system more, also at company level for example. That's also part of the delta plan. That's the kind of thing we're shaping right now. However, the question from the Chamber was to give shape to that long-term debt that is then longer than one or two years. I do not automatically have the resources for this in my budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u102	I spoke about this because I saw in the media that the Minister has EUR 2.5 million available for research into the loss of species in rural areas for the next five years. Is that the EUR 2.5 million the Minister was just talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u103	Yes. Thus, we shape the research and the start-up of the monitoring system. However, if we want to do that long-term thing again, which is a little longer than a few years, then I do not automatically have the resources for that in my budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u104	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u105	Then I will automatically come to Mr Geurts' questions. I think he's already had some analyses of what's going on. I've just reported on the monitor, I think. Rewarding farmers for their efforts is part of the delta plan. We're working on it right now to see where you could do that. I think his point about public space is right, because, as I have just said, it is more than just an agricultural debate; it is also about promoting biodiversity in other areas. That's also a working route in the delta plan; that's what it says. This is also in the Green Deal Infrastructure which was completed on 7 March. The parties will continue to cooperate on this under the dome of the delta plan. Rijkswaterstaat is one of the major organisations involved. That is where real steps can be taken. Mr Geurts asked very specifically what Rijkswaterstaat is doing now. You will understand that I am a little reluctant to speak big words about all kinds of other departments, because I simply do not have a clear view of that. But they're active as a trigger for that Green Deal Infra Nature. In doing so, IenW and Rijkswaterstaat also seek coordination with the public space pillar of the Deltaplan Biodiversity Recovery. They're involved in that, too. What is the status of monitoring and when will it start? That monitoring was announced last year. With De Vlinderstichting I made agreements on the extension of the Meetnet night butterflies. It also includes measurement points in the agricultural area. I am also in conversation with BoerenNature, De Vlinderstichting, LTO and Kenniscentrum EIS, among others, to start this monitoring in that agricultural area. Then it is also about pilots for a measuring network and the development of automatic camera traps, which makes monitoring easier. So that's being designed now. Mr Geurts also asked about EU standards. Of course, we have our directives which we all have to follow. That is, of course, also the framework in which we do a lot of things. In addition, it is the art of ensuring that we bring along a number of things, for example, I shall mention just one of them: the Water Framework Directive. Of course, it looks at water quality, but there are also elements that can contribute to biodiversity. I therefore believe that we need to look in particular at the measures we are taking in the framework of directives of this kind and at the same time have an impact on biodiversity and that we must also achieve the win-win situation in this way. Mr Geurts also asked about the parks and the beds. That's the same point I took with me in public space. So that's also in that infra-structure part.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u106	I'm getting an answer from the Minister. Thank you for that. I was more concerned with biodiversity loss in relation to trade agreements. Europe has trade agreements. Food products are also coming into Europe from outside Europe. This is not the case now, but does the Minister expect biodiversity loss in other parts of the world with trade with Europe to become part of it in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u107	There are several trade agreements. There are also ongoing discussions on some trade agreements. The Netherlands always brings in a number of elements of standards that we also regulate for ourselves, because we think it is important to take them elsewhere. I can't say in advance whether it's being taken anywhere. I should also like to discuss this with Mr Kaag, who is more concerned with the trade agreements. Can I come back to that in the second term? Mrs Ouwehand made a fundamental argument. I'm used to her, too. I always like that, too. She did that on the basis of a tree. I planted a tree yesterday. I always have to think about Luther. It sounds a little ludicrous, but he said: if you know you're going to die tomorrow, you're going to have to plant a tree today. With that he wanted to say that you must always keep busy with everything where your responsibility lies and what comes your way and that you must not think: it makes no sense anymore. I always see this struggle with Mrs Ouwehand. In that sense, these should be words to her heart. If it is so that I get that tree I have understood it so well I am very happy with it, because I am redecorating my garden. So I'll give that tree a nice spot. I don't know what kind of tree it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u108	An apple tree.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u109	An apple tree. That's totally beautiful. I'm gonna find a nice spot for that. Then I'll bring some apples for the Chamber sometime, if that's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u110	That's a commitment, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u111	Mrs Ouwehand does not have to make a motion on this. It is a firm commitment, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u112	Yeah, but then she'll have to give me a little time to stay here, because an apple tree doesn't just have fruit. So that's gonna be a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u113	Yeah, that'll take a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u114	So that depends on how long you're gonna leave me here. It referred to a number of biodiversity targets that have been set for some time. I agree with her that the ambitions have been there in the past and that you can ask yourself whether they have really become reality. We see that there is a decrease, also in a number of species. Then that certainly has not been the case for those species. I can say all kinds of things in the sense that things have gone well or not, but I think most of all I'm going to come back to the apple tree and we have to keep planting. We must continue and we must continue to address this issue in many places. In this light, I am pleased that social parties in the Deltaplan Biodiversity Recovery are also taking their role. The government is important, but she can't do it alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u115	It's an organic apple tree. It's good to hear there's room for it in the minister's garden. So that's all right. I acknowledge that the Minister has no easy position. I also hear the contribution of the CDA and the VVD. But I keep trying to tell her: you can say to the Animal Party that it should simply put the facts on the table as a responsible ruler, and then we will see how that works out in the debate. You can simply confront the VVD with its own promises and then say from the cabinet: "I am responsible for biodiversity. You may not like it that much, but we have to protect it. In fact, you have promised it before." To that end, I call on the Minister. And then we'll see if the VVD goes out of its pantyhose or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u116	The suggestion is that I am now content because of the VVD. That's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u117	Well, um...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u118	You don't have too many interruptions anymore. I'd say take it easy on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u119	Yes, Mr. Chairman, but it's just really important. 'Cause it's...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u120	Yeah, sure!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u121	...the future of nature, but also ours. Then I don't get it. I also said in my speech: people at home ask me how it is possible for politics to let it happen, when the promise was that it would have stopped in 2010. The decline in biodiversity has not stopped at all. It's either one or the other. Or the minister is trapped in a coalition that doesn't want to, and then I say: don't worry, just put on the table what needs to happen and if the coalition doesn't want to, they'll find someone else to do the dirty work. Or she doesn't realize that the government's promises are not being kept and the government's obligations are not being respected. So she can say, "This is my responsibility; we have to pursue this policy. I'll find out what you think. And if you will send me away, so do it." We really need that guts for nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u122	Again, the suggestion is that I wouldn't. I'll fight that. Then we come back to the plant protection product discussion. A number of steps have been taken in the past year. It was always somewhat diverse in the Chamber when it came to agreeing to it, so to speak. If I've made a choice in the line I follow, I'll hold onto it. Then it is indeed up to the Chamber to say: we are going along with this or we are not going along with it. I challenge the idea that I will only ask a particular party what it thinks first and that I will act accordingly. I choose my own route. Now I really come to Mr Weverling, the man with power, when I hear it from a number of Members here. He asks about the knowledge gaps that Wageningen University has also indicated. I just made it clear that I'm making money available to do further research on that. With regard to tackling the varroasis, I say that part of the problem lies with the honeybee. I don't have the impression that I'm denying that right now, or anything like that. In fact, we support beekeepers through the so-called honey programme, also with up-to-date scientific knowledge about the threats of the honeybee and with handles to combat it and to make bees resistant to the varroasis. I have even presented to the European Commission today a new honey programme for the next three years in order to go further. So we're working on it ourselves. Mr Weverling asks if I agree that farmers are being obstructed by regulations when they want to make certain contributions. There are rules that don't make sense when you want to contribute to improving biodiversity. I have also recognised this in my view. We are now working to map that and to see what we can do better at that point. I come to Mr De Groot's questions. He has asked a number of more specific questions about plant protection and also a question about the implementation of his motion. He's asking if I can promise him I'll do it in May. May I make a procedural proposal, Mr. Chairman? We're about to have a general consultation on crop protection products. Before then, I will send Mr De Groot a letter stating how I deal with this motion. Otherwise, I think that a very large part of this debate is going to be devoted to that again. Then we just have a little more time to talk about these things fundamentally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u123	Thank you to the Minister for this commitment. Then I assume that the answer in that letter is different from the Minister's reply yesterday at the Agriculture and Fisheries Council, namely that the Ctgb still needs all of 2019 for that assessment. But thank you for the promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u124	If I'm gonna write a letter, I'm gonna write a letter. So just give me a minute to write a letter. Otherwise, when I hear it like that, Mr De Groot himself may write a letter to me. Mr De Groot is also asking about matters relating to manure policy. Does manure policy take into account biodiversity and biodiversity recovery? Mrs Dik-Faber asked the same question. In the beginning, I indicated that it is not the case that I can push one button and that it improves biodiversity. There are a lot of things we need to look at at the same time. Fertiliser policy is by definition also not biodiversity policy. It is originally intended to keep the water quality in order. Of course, we also need to look here at what good steps we can take to contribute to this. In that light, I agree to see what we can do there. The same applies to pasture birds. Mr De Groot specifically asked for this. Here too, it is not true that manure policy is a grazing bird policy, but we can look at things together and see what choices there are. Sometimes it's also dilemmas. I'll just put that back, because what can be good for one terrain, I'll just say what, for the ammonia........................................................................................................................................................................................... We need to get these dilemmas on the table here, too. We need to discuss what choices we want to make in this respect, because there is something to discuss; let me put it this way. That's about manure and soil. Mr De Groot also asked about monitoring. I have just indicated what I have agreed with the Butterfly Foundation on the design of the measuring network. Mr De Groot also wanted a kind of guarantee in the long-term commitment of the delta plan that we are working on. This guarantee should ultimately be included in the policy and where necessary in the laws and regulations. I can't always rule over my grave. Of course, it's up to a next cabinet to make choices in some cases. But if we now make a number of choices that are good for soil and for a number of legislative pathways that we are also working on, you can settle wealth issues for the longer term. The same applies to income models. If we put that right, it'll have a long-term impact. That's what we're doing. Then I come to Mr Graus' questions. Mr. Graus, thank you for joining us again. It's nice that you made your contribution again. I know that Mr Graus is always very concerned about bees and biodiversity. He asked me if I'm gonna continue my commitment to the grazing. Let's see. Was that a question from Mr Graus? Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u125	You may explain. Light it up, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u126	I had made a link to the tree-planting day, in which the minister was also present, and said that we should create shadow spots for meadow-goers, so for small talk and stuff.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u127	Yes. I don't have a program to plant trees with farmers right now. I am a bit in the discussion about the timber walls and the broader discussion about the landscape elements that are very good for biodiversity. The Chamber has already called on me to bring about a change in that, because we see that many of these elements are disappearing from the landscape. I have indicated that I want to take this into account in the new CAP, but that will take some time. That's 2021, maybe 2022. In the meantime, I will talk to the provinces to see how we can now ensure that those elements do not disappear, because they are important for protection but also for biodiversity.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u128	But my question is as follows. I once laid it down with Mrs Verburg, a predecessor of this minister. We could also organise such a tree-planting day with farmers who want to work on it. A lot of farmers want that, in order to create shadow spots for their animals, for the meadow-goers. That's actually the question. Maybe the Minister can come up with a way to do that for once. So I'm not talking about a school or a new building neighborhood, but just once with the farmers, to help them get shadow spots.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u129	I'm gonna think about it sometime. I can't promise it yet, but I think it's a nice suggestion in itself. The motion on zero measurement has been rejected, but in the framework of the Ecological Monitoring Network butterflies and dragonflies have been counted for years. In the past year I have agreed with De Vlinderstichting to expand the measuring network for the moths. In particular, the knowledge about insects in the agricultural area is lacking. That is why I am going to talk to these organisations, to start monitoring insects in agricultural areas and to shape that research there. I will also, in conjunction with the Deltaplan Biodiversity Recovery, see how good monitoring can be set up through the so-called living labs. So we're working in many places to shape that monitoring. Then the question about an update on the implementation of the motion to replace chemical plant protection with natural. We'll soon have the AO Crop Protection. I will include that update in the written response to Mr De Groot's motion. Then we can take it with us. Then the research of the knowledge centre for rodent management. It's always a bit back and forth, but the Ministry of IenW is the first to be responsible for the admission of funds for rodent control. That assessment shall also take into account the safety of human beings and the environment. I do not have any signals at the moment that there are bottlenecks for biodiversity, but it is really in the area of a colleague. So I'm a little reluctant about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u130	I think this is very important. I would like this knowledge centre for rodents, the KAD, to be involved, including in the context of barn fires. This issue could also be included. Rodents also cause stable fires. I have now asked in the context of biodiversity. It can all be taken together in such a knowledge center. That doesn't have to cost a lot of money, because the experts are already in Wageningen, are already at the KAD and are already present.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u131	I just said that the issue of rodent control and the means to do so really lies with my colleague from IenW. Perhaps Mr Graus can also have the discussion there, because I am somewhat reluctant to make all kinds of absolute statements in the area of another.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u132	This is probably my last interruption. I mentioned the martyr and the rat evolution champions. Those are the words of Dr. Weijman, a pest and pest expert, perhaps one of the best in the world. Dr. Weijman says rats have been evolution champions for centuries. Those animals do a lot of good business too. Steenmarters grab rats, but the brown rat also grabs goose eggs, so that no live geese have to be killed. So it's better to maintain nature. That's why I want to get a positive picture of the rodents.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u133	Okay, but today it's about bugs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u134	But also on biodiversity, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u135	That includes rodents; that's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u136	I can say that at the moment there is a pilot at the University of Groningen, which conducts research into predation management and its considerations. I support that pilot. So it is not the case that nothing happens, but that happens in the context of predation management. This also gives you insight into the decline of one species and the rise of the other species. That's what's happening now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u137	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u138	Mr. Chairman. Then I come to Mr Futselaar, who asks: when do we get RIVM research on pesticides and local residents? I haven't seen the final report myself either, so it's a little tricky to say something about that now. I'm trying to send the report for the AO Plant Protection Products to the Chamber, if I have it myself. That might be a little tight. I'm in agreement with the RIVM to see if that works, but I'm not sure. I'm gonna have to let RIVM do his job, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u139	I understand that. The Ministry of IenW is also the final client and not this minister. But I would think it makes sense if someone called the researchers or the RIVM, to say: if it is ready to leak to the media, it is also ready to send to the Ministry and therefore also to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u140	That would suggest that there's a complete report. You can, too, have my experience here sometimes, leak things before they're completely completed. I understand the RIVM's plan is to produce a complete investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u141	Yeah, that's right. But it is also the case that reports are sometimes not yet completed, for example because the Ministry has not yet responded to them and therefore they are left with a ministry for a few weeks longer than might be strictly necessary. I am not accusing anyone of anything, by the way, but delay can come from several sides.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u142	I understand. The question is whether that is a delay. There was no end date. It is now accelerating as parts of the investigation have been leaked out. I wouldn't want to reward that, by the way, because then you're going to reward that behavior. It's really not like I'm withholding a report or a reaction. That report must be completed; that is the lead time. We really talked to RIVM to ask how fast it could be, but I don't want to pressure RIVM because things have leaked now. I'll do my best, it's the message. Mr Futselaar also asked about the approach to limiting plant protection. I have just indicated that I come up with a vision of plant protection products. Mr Futselaar can see what we have in mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u143	This is partly because of my own contribution, but also a little that of Mr Geurts, when it was about things outside this minister's portfolio. She keeps saying, "I'm a little reluctant to talk about infrastructure and water." I understand that, but on the other hand we have a Secretary of State for the Environment who says quietly when it comes to asbestos: there is a problem with the roofs of farm sheds. She doesn't say, "That's what the Minister of LNV is about." Given the scale and urgency of the biodiversity problem, is it not necessary for this minister to have a somewhat coordinating, transcendent role to address and say: I do want to say something about, for example, flower borders along roads and so on?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u144	As a cabinet, we make broader arrangements. I'll just mention the Bee Strategies. In that we also said that flowery edges must come along infra, so also along the track, roads and that sort of thing. That's what the Ministry of IenW has committed itself to. I just mentioned the green deal that IenW helped close. So it's not that it doesn't happen, but I think it's very strong if I don't feel responsible for that alone, but that all those parties make their own arrangements. Then you have real commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u145	I can go a long way with that, but if, for example, the green deal at IenW doesn't go well, who am I to blame or who am I to blame? Is that the Minister of IenW, or the Minister who is ultimately responsible for biodiversity? That is why I am inclined to say that I would like to have one person who can be heard in broad terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u146	I understand that, but allow me to mention something in my past. I've been active in the field of debt. There was one coordinating ruler, who was talked to each time on matters that other rulers did not do. Those other rulers then said: yes, but we have a coordinating ruler. I would almost say: count your blessings, Mr Futselaar, that those other departments are also directly accessible to the agreements they themselves make.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u147	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u148	I don't know if I convinced him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u149	Don't trick him!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u150	Sorry. Mrs Dik-Faber asked whether further research should go hand in hand with the pilots for the recovery strategies and whether I should accept the recommendations. The recovery strategies for insects are linked to the research, as the authors of the delta plan have in mind. I agree with that. I also support it with the money we have now made available for that research. When do I come up with a proposal for monitoring insects? That monitoring is important. I have just indicated that we are in the process of shaping this, but if we also have to fill in the whole monitoring with amounts, we still need to take some steps. At the moment, I do not have the resources to do so either. However, we are talking to the organisations to start monitoring insects in the agricultural area before this season. Mr Futselaar asked whether there was sufficient coordination between IenW, LNV and other departments under the Water Framework Directive. He also asked if they were committed to the Deltaplan Biodiversity Recovery. We have good discussions with other departments. They have also shown their interest in the delta plan. With IenW we also set up the Great Water Programme. We have also made funds available from the cabinet. I just mentioned the green deal that was closed from the Ministry of IenW. With regard to the Water Framework Directive, we have a very extensive consultation structure within which these discussions take place. The lease is an interesting point, mentioned by Mrs Dik-Faber. I have indeed taken note of the initiative of church congregations who want to sell their land with respect for biodiversity. That's a nice initiative. You'll be getting a lease very soon. I can lift a tip of the veil: it's not in there. Perhaps it is a good idea to take this into account in the discussion that we are undoubtedly going to have about the lease letter. We're gonna get another AO Paid. It can be taken in there. But I think it's a very nice initiative from this church.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u151	That general consultation is in two weeks, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u152	In two weeks, I mean, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u153	Thank you for the Minister's words. I think we can really take steps with rent. It is a very nice initiative of the church in Reduzum, but of course there are many more churches that spend land in rent. The same applies to individuals, estates, investors and also the government itself. Biodiversity is not yet covered. I am happy to have this debate in general consultation, but I also understand that the letter has not yet been sent to the Chamber. Perhaps the Minister could leave her thoughts on this and devote a passage to it in the letter, so that we have a little more direction for the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u154	The letter's almost ready. I must then make every effort to see what is happening there and how we can shape it. I would nevertheless like to suggest to Mrs Dik-Faber that this point should be included in the AO Pacht. Then I'm gonna get ready for that AO. I'm willing to admit it now. If it's not in the letter, that doesn't mean nothing's gonna happen to it. But if we change the letter completely now, the letter will be delayed and you will again have too little time to read it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u155	Of course, I don't want to be guilty of that, so I'm just gonna get ready for the general discussion. We'll meet there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u156	Our officials have now heard what you want to take with you. I have just discussed the restoration of biodiversity as part of the reform of manure policy. Finally, I come to Mr Moorlag's questions. We still need to get the report from the RIVM on lily cultivation. I've asked the Ctgb to give an appreciation of the research done in Westerveld. I don't have that appreciation yet, and I want to include these things in that discussion. In my introduction, I have already addressed how I look at the urgency of biodiversity and insect mortality. I intend to support and facilitate the Deltaplan Biodiversity Restoration generously, both with money and with thinking power. I've already explained that. The last question is perhaps the most beautiful: do I believe that the government should show courage and courage to set boundaries? Yes, I think so, but we should always look at the context in which these things take place. A government is there to give direction, but sometimes also to set boundaries. I agree with Mr Moorlag on that point. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u157	A question from Mr Graus on the harmful effects of compulsory injection of manure has remained, as he has told me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u158	A report has appeared that I still need to study. These are discussions that we take with us in the review of manure policy. It's a little early to make some kind of absolute statement about it already.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u159	So you'll come back to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u160	Mr Geurts of the CDA, who is always sitting next to me in the plenary, has taught me that I must always ask: in what time? Otherwise, Mr. Geurts will be restless in no time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u161	I really want to take this into the bigger manure debate and it's running right now. Soon I'll give you a soil program. I imagine you'd like to talk about that, too. I would like to propose that these issues should be included if you wish to have a debate on manure and soil.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u162	Thank you. Let us now move on to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mrs Bromet on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u163	Mr. Chairman. I welcome the Minister's reply. I hope that the fire she is showing will lead to results. Maybe my motions will help with that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the use of pesticides per hectare in the flower sector is highest in all agricultural sectors;]] [[Whereas these high levels of active substances are harmful to our surface water, our insect population and public health;]] [[calls on the Government to prohibit the extension of the number of hectares in the flower sector, except in the case of cultivation not using plant protection products,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the authorisation of plant protection products is entirely based on individual substances and short-term mortality;]] [[noting that many plant protection products are used in combination with other products and that some plant protection products have non-lethal effects on inter alia the reproduction of non-target species;]] [[Whereas there is still little research on the cumulative and long-term impact of these different substances on soil, water quality, insect population and public health;]] [[calls on the Government to ask the Ctgb to take into account the combination of substances and the effects of life-cycle products, including reproduction, of insects, in the authorisation and prior risk analysis of plant protection products,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bromet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26407-115]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bromet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26407-116]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u164	Then there's a very short one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Animals, Food and Feed,]] [[invites the Government to prohibit the use of the product whole by 2022 at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bromet, Mr Ouwehand, Mr Graus, Mr Futselaar and Mr Moorlag.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26407-117]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u165	Mr. Chairman. One motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas insects are an important part of nature as a start to the food chain;]] [[Whereas three working routes are being developed to prevent insect decline: public space, nature and agriculture;]] [[calls on the government to consider the income model of farmers as a major priority in the further implementation of the agricultural work route;]] [[calls on the Government to take a leading role in a cooperation programme for biodiversity in public space and in particular for insects,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Geurts, Mr Weverling, Mr De Groot and Mr Fat-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26407-118]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u166	Mr President, one last comment. I heard Mr Graus and the Minister talk about trees. It will appeal to Mr Graus that in his beloved Limburg the CDA intends to plant 1.1 million trees over the next eight years. I would like to make an effort to ensure that Mr Graus and the Minister put together some of these trees on farmland in Limburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u167	And call it Graus?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u168	The three of us!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u169	The three of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u170	Well, it's just the three of us. I heard here that Mr Graus would like to plant trees with the Minister on farmland. In his beloved Limburg lies a plan to plant 1.1 million trees over the next eight years. I just want to be helpful in that. I'd like to give that to Mr. Graus and the Minister. Then it's just the three of us. I think that's what they need physically in Limburg, too, with 1.1 million trees.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u171	That's very nice. It's well-meaning, Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u172	I think that is also very nice, because the CDAs who are responsible there were in the Chamber with me at the time and supported my request at the time. That was all before your time, Mr. Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u173	Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u174	Then I dare to do this on behalf of deputy...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u175	Those people keep their appointments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u176	That is why I dare to say this on behalf of Deputy Koopmans to you, Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u177	Thank you, Mr. Geurts. I now give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u178	Mr. Chairman. Nothing's easier than saying it's all so complicated. But we have to be honest. The Netherlands has committed itself to nature goals, and when it turned out that this was not going to work, with our intensive livestock farming, it has not been the intensive livestock farming that has been repaired but the nature goals have been adjusted. Instead of the old Nature Protection Act, we now have a Programmatic Approach to Nitrogen, based on the principle that more economic growth should be possible and that the misery caused by nitrogen should be disposed of from nature. We agreed on an Ecological Main Structure years ago, not because we thought it was fun and cozy, but because it is necessary to protect biodiversity. And instead of realizing it, it is reduced and the realization does not come from the ground. If you say in that context: yes, but there are many buttons... The Animal Party finds that scandalous! The button's with the government, and it's got to push it. Two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Member States may take independent positions when the European Commission proposes to authorise a particular chemical pesticide;]] [[noting that previous authorisations, on a proposal from the European Commission and with a positive opinion from EFSA and Ctgb., have caused major damage to nature, such as the highly toxic neonicotinoids;]] [[calls on the Government no longer to automatically follow the European Commission (and EFSA and Ctgb) but to take an independent position on the authorisation, applying the precautionary principle,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that research carried out by the University of Groningen shows that the injection of manure into the soil kills soil life, thus reducing food for grazing birds;]] [[calls on the Government no longer to allow manure injections,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26407-119]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26407-120]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u179	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to the Minister for answering the questions. I would like to ask the Minister to give a written opinion on two recent studies which clearly indicate that insects are going back and the role of our farming methods in this process. I'd like to hand it over to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u180	I assume there is no objection to these documents being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u181	Then I have three motions. To show that too...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u182	Shall we start with that? Otherwise, you're running out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u183	I'm going very fast. The three motions. That the Chamber can also work well together, we want to show with this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the current manure policy leads to soil hardening;]] [[Whereas this means that worms can no longer reach the surface, thereby reducing the food content of meadow birds;]] [[Whereas the Minister is reviewing manure policy;]] [[Whereas healthy soil is an important part of the transition to circular agriculture;]] [[calls on the Government to make the reform of the manure policy meadow-bird-proof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr De Groot, Mr Weverling, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Geurts, Mr Futselaar, Mr Bromet, Mr Moorlag, Mr Graus and Mr Ouwehand.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26407-121]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u184	Then keep the motion permanent grassland. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas biodiversity, insects and organic dust content in agricultural soils increase if no soil processing is carried out;]] [[Whereas the CAP prohibits ploughing on "vulnerable permanent grasslands";]] [[Whereas there are signs that farmers are tearing grassland to prevent it from being classified as "vulnerable permanent grassland";]] [[Whereas unnecessary cracks of grassland are undesirable in view of climate policy, biodiversity and climate adaptation policies;]] [[calls on the government, in consultation with the sector, to provide a clear explanation of the regulatory framework and to look for sustainable alternatives where grassland is no longer regularly ploughed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr De Groot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26407-122]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u185	Thank you. Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u186	Oh, I have one more motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u187	Yes, but you're way past your speaking time, Mr. De Groot. That's why I'm saying start with the motions first. For all these considerations, that is speaking time. What are we gonna do with your motion? Sorry. Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u188	Mr President, you hardly believe it, but I also had a motion on this. I have not tabled it because of the limited speaking time. In itself, I share the spirit of what Mr De Groot is saying here, namely that we must stop the cracks of grassland as much as possible. My idea was to ask the Minister whether she also wants to protect permanent grassland outside Natura 2000 areas, because now it only happens within Natura 2000. So we could also opt for a protection regime. Does Mr De Groot feel that he should perhaps tighten up his motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u189	I find it very difficult to judge this. I would like to ask the Minister what she thinks about that. Ultimately, these farming methods are also good for biodiversity and for the climate. To ban and protect right away? The point is, we're gonna think differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u190	I'm trying to follow it a little bit. If I understand correctly, Mr De Groot's motion says that existing legislation must be interpreted in a certain way. Isn't that a bit of a dubious way to deal with it? It's supposed to be clear, isn't it? If it's not right, you have to change the rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u191	Thank you for this question. This is partly a misinterpretation of the rules, which means that farmers are ploughing their grassland once every six years as a precautionary measure, and that is not necessary at all. That's the part of the explanation. We certainly need to adapt these regulations, which is what the second part of the operative part also says, and look for sustainable alternatives, where grassland is no longer plowed unnecessarily. Because that's the practice now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u192	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u193	As a follow-up question, I would like to ask Mr De Groot to read out his third motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u194	No, that's my call. Thank you, Mr. De Groot. There will be plenty of debates and enough VOCs in which this motion can also be tabled. I shall now go to Mrs... no, to Mr. Graus on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u195	Thank you, Madam President. I wanted to table a motion to have the government examine the impact of the mandatory injection of manure on soil life and insect stock, but the Minister has promised to come back to that. So, out of pure collegiality, I would like to ask Mrs Ouwehand to hold on to this motion to ban it because we have to wait and see what the research is about. That's what I want to ask. For the rest, I would like to thank the Minister. I certainly go with the minister and Mr Geurts to my own beautiful Limburg, where I am every weekend and in the recesses to plant trees anyway. I'd be happy to be a part of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u196	And now the motion, otherwise you will have the same problem as Mr De Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u197	I have no further motion. I just said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u198	Oh, you don't have a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u199	The motion I wanted to table is not going to be filed because the Minister has promised to come back to it first. Then I think it's premature. Then it's stage work. I'll do it for the stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u200	No, don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u201	That's what a lot of MPs do, but I don't really like that much. I have endorsed the important motion tabled by Mr Bromet van GroenLinks, which calls on the government to ban the use of the substance altogether by 2022 at the latest, because the PVV is against all neonicotinoids, which is a whole mouthful of pheasant. In addition, we also supported Mr De Groot's motion of D66 for a better manure policy. Thank you for your collegiality, for allowing us to work together from left to right for the benefit of insects and biodiversity. I really appreciate that, even as an animal ambassador. Thanks for that. Finally, Madam President. I'm gonna come back to it again, that knowledge center for rodents. I think it's gonna have to happen someday, but I'll come back to that some other time. For today, I'll leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u202	Thank you, Mr. Graus. I now give the floor to Mr Futselaar on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u203	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A few motions for the stage. No, seriously. The Minister announced that he would come forward with a strategy, a plan or something in the field of plant protection. I didn't know that when I was making motions. I've got two that I'd like to file anyway because they're about research. If the minister says she's gonna do it anyway, I'm gonna move them back in. The first one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the use of pesticides and pesticides is undesirable and has negative effects on the environment and the environment;]] [[calls on the Minister to examine whether a distance criterion for (some) pesticides is necessary for the built-up area and/or vulnerable nature, and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the use of pesticides and pesticides is undesirable and has a negative impact on the environment and the environment;]] [[calls on the Minister to consider whether a standard test on environmental biodiversity impacts should be made necessary in the case of large-scale use of pesticides,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Futselaar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26407-123]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Futselaar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26407-124]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u204	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't have any motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u205	You don't have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u206	I would like to thank the Minister for answering all the questions. My signature is on two motions that have already been tabled. The first motion is that of Mr Geurts on an income model for farmers when they are committed to biodiversity. I think that's very important. We really need to do it together with the farmers. The motion also says something about public space. We cannot just give up on agriculture, although there is a great deal of work to be done. It's also about public space, so I signed that motion. The other motion is that of Mr De Groot on biodiversity and grazing bird management as part of manure policy. Mr. Chairman. I'd like to conclude with a hopeful quote. I was at the round table. There was also Hans de Kroon on behalf of Radboud University. He indicated: "Natural ecosystems have resilience. This certainly applies to insects with a high reproductive capacity and short generation duration." I think that's a hopeful message. The situation is worrying, but we may also have confidence in the future, because nature is resilient. Bugs are for sure. So let's all get to work! Then there's real hope. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u207	Thank you very much, Mrs Dik-Faber. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Moorlag on behalf of the PvdA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u208	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for answering the questions. She has said that funds will be made available for a research programme to get a clear picture of the development of the insect population in agricultural areas. But she also said that its long-term character is not guaranteed. Measuring is knowing. If you want to monitor properly, you have to watch it develop for a long year. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the strong decline in insect populations is a threat to our ecosystem and part of the food supply;]] [[Whereas the report "Backup insect populations in the Netherlands: trends, causes and gaps" states that there is virtually no information available on trends of insects in agricultural areas due to the lack of a professional monitoring programme;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure a long-term research programme to monitor the development of insect populations in agricultural areas,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Moorlag, Mr Bromet and Mr Futselaar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26407-125]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u209	Locking up, Mr. Chairman. The Minister said that courage and courage are needed. I wish her well in the hope that in 20 years' time we will be able to look back on a period of government characterised not only by commitment, intentions and good intentions, but also by real concrete results. I hope there's gonna be a real difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u210	Thank you. Then we have now completed the second term of office. I'm suspending the meeting for five minutes. A number of motions have been tabled, so the Minister must discuss them for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u211	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u212	Thank you. I've received a number of motions. The first motion belongs to Mrs Bromet. I would like to ask her to keep it, because I have just indicated that the RIVM report is yet to come and that I have asked the Ctbg for an appreciation of the Westerveld report; let me just mention it. If she doesn't want to do that, I'm gonna have to discourage the motion right now. Then there is Mrs Bromet's second motion. I understand what Mrs. Bromet is asking. We are currently investigating the combination of resources. I haven't gotten the results of that investigation yet. If I may read the motion in such a way that we are following the results of the investigation, then I can leave the judgment to the Chamber, but that may also reveal that they do not or do not do so. Maybe holding on is a little more sensible. It is being investigated now and it is being looked at, but I do not want to anticipate it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u213	But?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u214	So hold on. But if I may read the motion in such a way that we are waiting for the inquiry, which is actually a bit of the same question, then I would like to leave the judgment to the Chamber. But now the motion is just too sharp and I dissuade her. Hold on would be helpful.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u215	Mrs Bromet, you may say it in the microphone, otherwise it will not be in the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u216	Then I'll hold both motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u217	At the request of Mrs Bromet, I propose her motions (26407, Nos. 115 and 116). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u218	Then there's her third motion for a resolution on pomegranate. There is now no proposal on the renewal of satsumas. So it's kind of a "spoken" motion, because there's nothing on the basis of which we have to do something now. This is also about a new cabinet period, as I estimate, so I should already give an appreciation of something that is not now there but in a new cabinet period. I just think of this as a "spoken" move. Actually, I don't think I need to say anything about that right now, because there's nothing for it. If it's a request to me, I'd advise against the motion because there's nothing to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u219	It says "requests the government." So what's the verdict?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u220	Yeah, but there's no proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u221	So?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u222	This way, I'll have to dissuade the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u223	Okay. Then we'll move on to the next motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u224	We can make a lot of motions on what next governments should do. In general, perhaps you can look at the wording you use in the arrangement of a motion. I would find it more chic if the Chamber were to pronounce it more as a declaration of intent by itself rather than order me to do something about the next government. It doesn't usually work that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u225	If I were Minister, I'd carry out the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u226	Mr Futselaar has ambitions, I hear. He could be a good Minister of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u227	I think so, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u228	The motion in part No. 118 is about taking the lead in a cooperation programme and putting earning models at the heart of it. I have just indicated that I think the latter is important, so I could leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u229	I have a question about that. No one is against good earning models, but I would like a more precise explanation of what is meant by that. In the round tables leading up to this plan, for example, we heard from the Louis Bolk Institute that there has been a trial with organic dairy farmers. They have 20% less revenue, but they also have 30% less cost. Does the Minister see this as good examples of good earning models? 'Cause I'm a little scared now that it's mainly about...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u230	Good. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u231	...the easy way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u232	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u233	There's no limit on earning models. I read it in such a way that farmers should be able to do it, otherwise they might go bankrupt. I can see why you're putting that pre-condition on that. As far as I am concerned, that is very broad.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u234	Please continue. No, Mrs. Ouwehand. You are free to vote for it or not. This is a motion from Mr Geurts. You have asked an explanatory question, so I should like to move on to the next motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u235	Just a brief confirmation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u236	A brief confirmation? Really? Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u237	Is it true that the Minister clearly sees a smaller production here, but a better yield in the context of this whole discussion about the earning models?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u238	There are many forms of earning models.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u239	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u240	There isn't one. Let me also say that, because if Mrs Ouwehand says 'we all have to go to lower production with other earning models', then that is not the portee of this motion. I don't read her like that. That's another earning model. That's just part of the whole discussion, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u241	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u242	The motion in part No. 120 relates to the debate on manure injections. We now have a review of manure policy. We have designed a rather comprehensive process on that. I think this motion is too fast for that, because we are having this discussion. That's why I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u243	Mr. De Groot?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u244	To avoid misunderstandings. The Minister had just given an opinion on the motion in part No. 120, but she had not yet given an opinion on the motion in part No. 119.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u245	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u246	Sorry, Chairman. Then I just went too fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u247	Very sharp, Mr. De Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u248	That is the motion to stop following EFSA and Ctgb. We have had this discussion endlessly, and I have indicated what my line is in it, and I therefore advise against the motion in part No. 119, as was the case in part No. 120. We are now in the middle of the discussion, so I think it is too early to draw conclusions now. The motion in part No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u249	Before you proceed, Mrs. Ouwehand on her own motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u250	The motion in part No. 120 I am holding, because there is currently a discussion about the injection of manure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u251	No, not about the manure reduction but about the reform of manure policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u252	You mean the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u253	Then the motion to part No. 121 to make the reform of the manure policy meadow-bird-proof. This is also the case in the whole debate on the reform of manure: how are we going to shape that? I see it as an encouragement to take more account of things there. I get the impression that this motion is gonna make it, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u254	I have that impression, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u255	So judge Room. Then the motion to part No. 122 on the conservation of permanent grassland. I agree that there should be no misinterpretation of the rules, especially if this leads to an unnecessarily negative environmental impact. So I'll leave this to the Chamber's judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u256	Mr. De Groot, it's Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u257	Fantastic.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u258	You disagree?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u259	Yes, but it is not only a clear explanation but also a search for sustainable alternatives where grassland is no longer regularly ploughed. So I assume that's what the judgment is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u260	I gave her judgment room. Mr De Groot must not tempt me to come to another judgment. That's a risk you're gonna take now. Then I come to the motion on part No. Mr Futselaar on the distance criterion. The motion proposes a specific measure, while the outcome of the investigation is not yet available. I just turned it in. So I think it is a little too early to say something about that now. So I would advise Mr Futselaar to hold the motion. We're gonna get these investigations involved. If he doesn't, I'll have to discourage the motion at this stage. Then the motion to part No. No, this was the motion in part No. 123. I think I'm messing with my songs. I mean the motion in part no. 124, which calls for a standard test to be carried out on the large-scale use of pesticides. The assessment already includes an extensive test on humans, animals and the environment, including non-target organisms. I do not see very well what else Mr Futselaar is going to ask what will contribute to that. This is already happening. In that sense, it is an unnecessary motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u261	Mr Futselaar, what's the assessment framework?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u262	I'm pulling the motion to part no. 124 in and hold the motion in part No. 123 on! 123 on! 123 on! 123 on! 123 on! 123 on! 123 on! 123 on! 123 on! 123 on! 123 on! 123 on! 123 on! 123 on! 123 on! 123 on! 123 on! 123 on!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u263	Since the Futselaar motion (No ) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u264	Please continue. The final motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u265	That's the motion in part No. 125. I have said that I am now starting research into insects in agricultural areas and developing that monitoring system. That's what I'm linking to the research approach worked out in the delta plan. This will give us an insight into the development of the populations and also into the impact of the interventions and measures we and the farmers are taking. My point is that funding has not been settled for a long time. I really want to design the research programme for a long time. There's no light in there. In that sense, I can give this motion judgment Chamber. I'm just saying I don't have the money yet if we're gonna have to do this long-term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u266	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-3.u267	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I thank the Minister and the MPs.
