ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-10.u1	The next item is a VAO Material Defence. I give the floor to Mr Van Helvert of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-10.u2	Thank you, Madam President. This VAO was requested by my predecessor on this dossier, Mrs Hanke Bruins Slot, just before the recess, because as a group we were still a little concerned about the tendering procedure followed and whether everything had gone through correctly. That couldn't be discussed at the time. In the meantime, the Secretary of State has written us a very nice letter on this subject on 15 August, and it is clear to the CDA that it has been handled sufficiently well. I have no motion on that either. So if you were to say, "Was this VAO necessary?', I say no. Actually, I forgot to take it off the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-10.u3	I think that's fair. I think it might be a waste of the Secretary of State's time and some of the people sitting here, but let's make the best of it. I give the floor to Mrs Diks van GroenLinks. It's a nice signal we're all sending here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-10.u4	Mr. Chairman. Yes, very interesting. It could be too fair, I'll just say. I certainly would not dare to say that the motion I intend to table is a waste of time, so I would like to thank Mr Van Helvert for not withdrawing the VAO. We have a motion on the monitoring of drones in the Caribbean. In order to prevent me from saying everything twice, I will at least read it to her first. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Coast Guard in the Netherlands Caribbean has a Search and Rescue mission and a coordination obligation;]] [[Considering that people continue to flee Venezuela due to the emergency situation in that country;]] [[Whereas the Coast Guard now only provides data on the number of migrants rescued by the Coast Guard itself, while it is important to monitor the number of people reaching or dying independently of the islands;]] [[calls on the Government, in cooperation with all relevant bodies and the IOM, to ensure a more accurate monitoring of the number of persons rescued in the Dutch Search and Rescue Region, to reach the Caribbean Islands independently and perish or go missing, and to inform the Chamber of the annual report of the Coast Guard Caribbean Area,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Diks. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27830-286]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-10.u5	I am tabling this motion because we are working closely with the IOM at the Search and Rescue in the Mediterranean to find out what numbers of people we are talking about, but we have not done so in the Caribbean so far. I sincerely hope that the Secretary of State or the Minister will take this up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-10.u6	Thank you. Finally, Mr Bosman of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-10.u7	Mr. Chairman. We have had an excellent general discussion, but I would like to mention a few things. For the VVD, the Defence Industry Strategy, the DIS, and the self-creating ability of the Dutch maritime industry are starting points in the choice for the successor of the Walrus-class submarine. This applies not only to the initial construction of the submarines, but also to the maintenance and upgrading of the submarines in the future. The VVD does not want to be dependent on third countries that can participate in deciding on the final quality of the submarines and thus on the employability of these submarines. The VVD also believes that if we build new naval ships, these ships should be able to resist and also project violence on hostile targets. After all, they're warships. Armament must be future-proof and substantially increase the impact of the Dutch Navy and the armed forces. Is the Secretary of State gonna take care of that? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-10.u8	Thank you. Well, with these mountain motions, the Secretary of State may be able to respond immediately. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-10.u9	Mr. Chairman. I found Mr Van Helvert surprising in his introduction. This was indeed about the purchase of mine-fighting vessels. In addition, Belgium was in the lead, and we also purchased those vessels. In any case, the contract is concluded to purchase. The AO was already in April of this year, so we are now a bit further, also with the material acquisition. But I'll inform you about that on Princess Day in the Material Project Review. Mrs Diks has the motion in part No. 286. It is part of the Minister's portfolio, but I will at least go into it because she has already mentioned this with the Minister. As you know, in general consultation the Chamber has been promised that the IOM figures will be looked at by the Coast Guard and reported to you. As you also know, the Coast Guard is responsible for the coastguard tasks. It is a very large area in the context of Search and Rescue activities. This also means that we have a coordination obligation in this regard. Depending on where an incident takes place, we know whether it concerns ourselves or another organization. As you know, we report in the annual report on the number of rescued persons per year. It is almost impossible to report fully on the number of people who, for example, independently reach the Caribbean islands, as you asked. That's actually impossible, because of the principle that you never know what you don't see. That's what makes it so difficult. The figures that we can give in response to your request will therefore not be complete, but they may be able to give a better picture. Of course, it is not only up to the Coast Guard to have that image in the judicial chain, but also to all other partners. We do think it is important to look at this. So if your call is to talk to these parties to see if more information can be gathered and made clear, I would like to do so, but I would ask you to hold the motion so that we can look into it. We'll see what's possible at all. Because as I just said, we don't know what we're not seeing. Your call is broad, so I would like to take it with me to see if we can talk to those parties, including the IOM, see what we can make clear, to report on this in the annual report.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-10.u10	I have just said in my very small explanation that there are a lot of examples in the Mediterranean of how these Missing Migrants Projects map out how many people it could be about. It is clear that these are estimates. I appreciate you being willing to talk to the IOM. That is why I am happy to take the motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-10.u11	At the request of Mrs Diks, I propose her motion (27830, No. 286). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-10.u12	And then, President, Mr Bosman's question, which gave his views on the Defence Industry Strategy. I'll give you the B letter this fall on the replacement of the submarines. I have heard Mr Bosman's appeal. He has also been able to read what the cabinet considers to be important in the context of the CIS. That is indeed looking at strategic autonomy, but above all the best boat for the best price. The strategic autonomy element is an essential part of this. But the consideration will be sent to the Chamber in a B letter this autumn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-10.u13	Thank you. Mr Bosman has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-10.u14	New ships, battlepower, armament.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-10.u15	That was Mr Bosman's second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-10.u16	But that was a general question. It depends on what the task and function of the ship is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-10.u17	I absolutely think it's a very nice slogan. If we build new Navy ships, are they armed? Is there just force on a ship that's a warship?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-10.u18	Depends on the ship. If it's a supply ship, it's got a whole different bet than when the ship's in defense or as an attack ship. Then it's just part of a fleet. So if your question is whether the supply ships are equipped with all sensors and all weapons by default, the answer is no. It depends on the function of the ship. They are protected by the frigates that sail along and for which they supply.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-10.u19	That sounds reasonable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-10.u20	Yes and no, Chairman. There are examples of this. So the moment you leave a supply ship autonomously, someone must always be there. This means that a supplier can never sail on his own. There will always have to be a fleet band around it. That's a risk. Actually, that makes the ship more expensive. There must be a ship around it. I would also like to mention the example of Sir Galahad in the Falklands. If a ship is unprotected and under attack, you have a problem. So that's all I'm saying. That's a concern I take out. I hope it will be taken into account in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-10.u21	That concern has been expressed and I have taken note of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-10.u22	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-10.u23	Then I suspend for a few moments, then we continue with the next VAO.
