ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. We'll start with the VAO Retirement Issues. There's been two AOs and there's one VAO. That means you just have to stick to the time. Speaking time is two minutes, and we are watching very closely. I would be the first to give the floor to Mrs Van Brenk. She speaks on behalf of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Two motions and one comment. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the full implementation of the pension agreement can take up to two years;]] [[whereas elections are imminent and pension reductions can create a great deal of uncertainty;]] [[Whereas a new pension system should not be implemented with cuts on throats;]] [[calls on the Government to re-introduce a fixed interest rate of at least 2%,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that during the General Reviews in the First Chamber, the Prime Minister expressed his concern at the interpretation of the 60 economists' letter of fire on the accounting rules for pension funds;]] [[calls on the Government to consult with a delegation of signatories in the near future in order to rule out any possible confusion and misinterpretation of the scope of the letter of fire and to inform the Chamber as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-506]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-507]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. We believe that no reduction is justified as long as the risk-free market rate of close to 0% is taken into account. That is why we have agreed that we should at least join in with the motion of the SP to also remove the discount for the 600,000 people who are still threatened with pension discounts. We find it hypocritical that parties who make the front page with the statement "all discounts off the table" are now okay to charge 600,000 people with unnecessary pension discounts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-3.u4	We were implicitly addressed, I think. That is what I hear in Mrs Van Brenn's somewhat abstract words. I would like to point out that I also stressed during the AA that we cannot take political responsibility for funds that are badly financed in particular. We are pleased that a broad gesture is already being made towards as many funds as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-3.u5	Implicit? No, as far as I'm concerned, it's even explicit. The PvdA and GroenLinks can indeed take this into account. Especially in the light of what is in the newspaper today, namely that the ECB makes a difference of 1.7% for interest rates. It is still a problem for these funds. In fact, it is not a problem, because if you were to say: we are counting on at least that part of it; then the funds that Mr Van Dijk is now saying are really in trouble would not be in trouble at all. So it's just really that fictional and ridiculously low calculation rate that gets them into trouble. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-3.u6	Thank you very much, Mrs Van Brenn. I call Mr Van Kent and he is speaking on behalf of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-3.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Van Brenk is absolutely right to say that it is totally unfair that a reduction in pensions is at risk for hundreds of thousands of people. It is hypocritical and unbelievable that parties who say that they support the pension agreement on the condition that all these unnecessary reductions in pensions are prevented should agree. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that for hundreds of thousands of people there is a threat of pension reductions;]] [[calls on the Government to consult with the parties involved in the pension agreement in order to avoid these reductions as much as possible, and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Kent and Mr Van Brenk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-508]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-3.u8	Mr. Chairman. I have deliberately formulated the motion in such a way that the parties who made this promise can also support this motion so that that promise can be kept. I cannot imagine that parties such as the CDA and the Christian Union are not here today to agree to the massive reductions in pensions that threaten hundreds of thousands of people, a reduction on the basis of accounting rules and a manipulated interest rate. It's also in the paper today. I can't imagine these parties taking care of that. I assume that the reduction in pensions for the many hundreds of thousands of people will also be cancelled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-3.u9	Thank you, Mr. Van Kent. Mr De Jong has the floor. He speaks on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-3.u10	Mr President, thank you very much. It's absolutely true. It's a hell of a scandal that you're gonna let 600,000 people get a pension discount in the next year. This is totally unnecessary in view of the current pension system and the pension fund. It's all not necessary and yet it happens. The parties that have had a big mouth over the last few weeks, such as "well, we're really going to prevent those discounts," are the parties who say themselves: you know what, those 600,000 people, well, that's just the risk. Mr. Chairman. That is unacceptable, and therefore the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that there is still a risk of pension reductions for 600,000 people in 2020 and millions of pension participants in 2021;]] [[calls on the government to come forward with a real interest rate for pension funds, which immediately cancels pension discounts for millions of Dutch citizens,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Jong. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-509]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-3.u11	Mr. Chairman. Not only does this minister have the ordinary political responsibility in this Chamber for making proposals to maintain and improve confidence in the pension system, it is also unacceptable that this minister should be held hostage by the ECB. Today it became clear that if the ECB had done nothing at all and just sat back, what is best is that we would not have had to stand here to talk about a pension discount, because then the calculation rate would have been 1.5% higher. That would have meant that we had a much higher level of coverage and that pension funds had come out of the problems. In fact, they might have been able to index. Mr. Chairman. My appeal to the Minister is therefore to stop being held hostage by the ECB and simply to draw up his own plan or to maintain the PVV's plan, which would be even better to adjust the accounting rate to a real accounting rate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-3.u12	Thank you, Mr. De Jong. I shall now give the floor to Mr Smeulders. Oh. Mr Van Weyenberg on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-3.u13	Sorry, Mr Smeulders had already given me a sneak preview. That was before his speaking time. Mr. Chairman. I am pleased that a solution has been found in the implementation of Mr Gijs van Dijk's motion to avoid unnecessary reductions. This is done in a balanced way, in which the Minister does not bow to the accountant wizards who say "slide the account and the risks but to the workers and young people." No, he has now chosen a solution that I believe is fair, given that it is fair not only to pensioners but also to young people and workers. It is also really linked to the elaboration of the pension agreement. I say here once again that we really, really need to take care of this effect in the coming months.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-3.u14	The calculus wizards. Does this mean that Mr Van Weyenberg is counting all the 60 notables who wrote the letter among the interest-rate wizards?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-3.u15	I always think it's okay for people to get involved in the public debate; I always appreciate that. With the current contract, with a collective pot and with hard claims, I just find it unwise to... Moreover, we already have the ultimate forward rate on this risk-free rate; so we already have a premium for long-term interest rates. I don't think it's wise to do more in this contract. That's what a lot of people who responded to the call say. There were also a number of people on that call, and I will not mention any names that, as far as I am concerned, have made choices in their own role in pension funds that have not helped to make their pension fund healthy. I don't think that's wise. So I agree with everyone who says you have to look very closely, including a new contract. If you have personal pension pots, as far as I'm concerned, you don't have to count on that risk-free interest rate. That's a completely different question. But I think it is very sensible that the Minister is not bowed to the "after me the flood" line. I repeat here: genuinely higher returns can, of course, be taken into account in practice. But you deserve it first and not on the puffy life.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-3.u16	I would also have liked to ask this question to the PvdA and GroenLinks. They were on the list of speakers, but they do not come here to speak. That is why the question to D66: how do you feel that hundreds of thousands of people still face pension cuts? Do you think that your Minister has done enough to prevent the reduction of pensions pending the completion of the pension agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-3.u17	Yes, I do. For millions of people, the discounts go off the table. Firstly, because the Minister has said that there is no need to reduce coverage between 100 and 104. Now the Minister also says that he gives room for coverage between 90 and 100. That's a big deal. Then we actually say: we keep cashing out, when it's not there according to the bookkeeping. I also think that this is fair, because at the same time we allow the premiums to be too low for a little longer. I also fully agree with everyone who says that this is precisely what pensioners are supporting the retirement of workers. The Minister said there's a limit to it somewhere. Under 90%, I just don't think it's justified. Then you actually have 10% cash shortage for your future commitments. I think it is wise for the Minister to limit this. The 90% limit is also included in the new pension agreement, the new pension contract. But I fully agree with Mr Van Kent that this is a very bad message and a heavy one for all those people who are concerned. Furthermore, I cannot answer for my two colleagues from other parties. But I think Mr Van Kent understands that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-3.u18	A very long story, which actually means that Mr Van Weyenberg is happy with his own minister. I understand that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-3.u19	I'm glad you're here, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-3.u20	But I had asked what Mr Van Weyenberg thinks about the threat of pension reductions for almost 700,000 people, as I had calculated in the general consultation. Does Mr Van Weyenberg think that this is justified, even in relation to the elaboration of the pension agreement? Does Mr Van Weyenberg believe that threatening these reductions in pensions is a risk for a good outcome of these pension negotiations?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-3.u21	Of course it's very acidic. No misunderstanding about that. It depends. A number of funds are just under 90. Maybe they just got over it. I think we all hope so. Should that discount take place... I'm still a pain in the ass. You yourself mentioned a fund with, I believe, 89.8. Then, of course, the discount is not too big. But it's still a discount and that's very annoying. But if we don't do it, when we say in the new pension agreement that measures under 90 inevitably need to be taken... We just can't get rid of that painful situation, unfortunately. Doing nothing would make me much worse.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-3.u22	Finally, I note that Mr Van Weyenberg is simply gambling with the pensions of hundreds of thousands of people, while the difference is minimal and the chosen border is arbitrary. The real solution is to adapt these ridiculous accounting rules that make pension funds poor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-3.u23	I'm not taking any chances. I say that, unfortunately, it is not justified under 90 to postpone any longer. I think it's kind of the gambling addict who says buying a state ticket once is dangerous. Mr Van Kent gambles tremendously with the retirement of all workers and young people, with his ideas on the interest rate. That's my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-3.u24	This is entrapment, but we are not going to do the debate again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-3.u25	It's mostly ridiculous.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-3.u26	I am glad that Mr Van Kent describes his own idea in this way. I just wouldn't do it. The crux is that it's extremely acidic when you're cut. Again, no misunderstandings about that. That it can now be prevented for millions of people, I think good news. I wanted to make another point, and that is about the AIO. This is the supplement for income support for older people who have an incomplete AOW and not a substantial supplementary pension, which actually means that there is some kind of assistance for people with an incomplete AOW. Now it turns out that perhaps half of the right holders do not make use of it, and I find that shocking. This is evident from the Court of Auditors' figures, and Mrs Van Brenk has often drawn attention to this, as have I in the AA. The cabinet would consult with municipalities on what can be done to ensure that people who are simply entitled to that supplement, who also apply and get it. Can the Minister say anything about it and, if not, can he indicate when he can say more about it? Because this is a group of older people who are really falling below the minimum, while we have arrangements to help them with that. As far as I'm concerned, we really can't let that go on our side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-3.u27	Thank you. I call Mr Van der Linde on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-3.u28	Mr. Chairman. We have three million people in the Netherlands who have worked hard and have always paid their taxes and contributions and who are now powerless to watch their old age provision get beaten up. That doesn't feel fair, but it's also not fair to ignore problems in retirement land and continue on the old ground. When you're 68, you have to be sure there's a good pension and even if you're 78, when you're 88 or when you're 98. That is why we were and are so mordicus against the sorceress with the discount rate, the discount rate, or against the simply prolonging of recovery periods or against the looking up of interest rates, against better knowledge. The new pension agreement is going to solve a lot of problems. People get a little more insight into their own pension assets and how that develops, and we have lost that vicious discussion between the generations. But the VVD also sees that it is not going to be possible to roll out this new pension agreement quietly if those three million pensioners in the Netherlands have to pay for the enforcement of rules that may no longer apply in two years' time. We believe that there is now a well-balanced package that gives rest to all pension participants, but it does contain a hard lower limit, that is to say 90%. There's got to be a delivery now. We are giving air to pension funds and the social partners to work hard to implement the new agreement. We are waiting with great tension for the headline note to be ready next summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-3.u29	I hear Mr Van der Linde making a very interesting remark: when the new contract is completed in two years' time. Can I also get the VVD's promise that we will not spend a year putting the discounts aside but two years? Can we book that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-3.u30	No, first we want to make sure that there is a headline note from the summer and that things are for each other. We are not just going to move everything forward again, because then nothing happens in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-3.u31	Then it's just a comment for the stage. Obviously.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-3.u32	It's been noted. I was at the end of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-3.u33	Thank you. Then I look at Mr Omtzigt as the last speaker in this term and he speaks on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-3.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm sorry I was a little late and I have to leave a little early, but I can't do all the things with Malta and the IRS at the same time this morning. Mr. Chairman. Since the last plenary debate on pensions, interest rates have fallen further and the new President of the European Central Bank has indicated that low interest rates will remain low for a long time. This puts pressure on the impact of the pension agreement. That is why I have been so curious about the transfers since the pension agreement was drawn up. What does this low interest rate mean and what does the new rules mean for how much pension you can build? How variable will the pension become? In the new pension contract, the pension becomes more variable, but this would not become too variable. I urge this government to send these calculations to the Chamber soon, within a few weeks, so that we can understand what this new contract will look like, six months after we have agreed to it. Mr. Chairman. An interesting ECB study has been published. So the ECB itself is not someone else, but the ECB itself is saying that the difference between the interest rate as it is now and as it would be without intervention by the ECB is 1.6%. If interest rates were 1.6% higher, we would not be talking about discounts here, but probably about how much indexation we would have. We wouldn't have a full indexing. I'll say that with "b" but a number of pension funds would go from possible discount to possibly a piece of indexing. That's a huge difference. The impact of the ECB is enormous. That's what the CDA's been warning you about for years. It will have an impact on the CBP study on whether it is optimal to keep a capital-covered system with negative interest rates at all. That is why we are also calling for the CBP and Netspar study to begin as soon as possible. This is about the fundamental choice of how we organise the system and what prices are. Will the Minister ensure that this study starts as soon as possible, so that we have the results on the table at the beginning of June, when we have a somewhat larger debate here on pensions again?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-3.u35	I hear Mr Omtzigt rightly say that he is very concerned about the ECB's influence on this, but I do have a question. The PVV has a number of times tabled a motion to adjust the accounting rate at least as long as the ECB's policy is pursued as it is now. That could be a temporary measure. Now we see that if the ECB didn't, it would care about 1.5%. That saves a lot of coverage. We have also called for this in motions for resolutions. Mr Omtzigt then voted against. Can Mr Omtzigt explain why?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-3.u36	Yeah, I can explain that. The accounting rate is not a fictitious interest rate, but is the actual interest rate a pension fund receives on the bonds it holds. If you are currently buying a ten-year bond from Minister Hoekstra, you will have 0% interest for 10 years. If you then calculate an interest rate of 1.6% over ten years............................................................................................................................................................ At the end of the year you will not get 1.6% interest on your savings account or on your bond, but 0% interest. That is why the CDA has also proposed other issues. Last week, a motion was adopted asking the government to prepare the text for a treaty change, to see how we can prevent the ECB from buying up as massively as possible and can no longer be so massively disruptive. We also want to gather support for this internationally. The second is that the ECB itself now warns that it is itself the biggest problem for macroeconomic stability. So it seems to us that it is better to deal with it in this way than to say: we are pretending that interest rates are different than they are at the moment. Although that is attractive, I am not in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-3.u37	Mr Omtzigt was dependent on the ECB and international contacts. He wants to solve this problem internationally, while we are dealing with this problem now. For next year, 600,000 people will have a discount above their heads, and for the year after that it will be millions of people, because these discounts are still not off the table either. This is partly due to the ECB's policy. Then Mr Omtzigt says: we need to see whether the ECB can do something else or whether we can obtain international support. As a temporary emergency solution, you could also have chosen, as long as the ECB does what it does, to do something about that interest rate here in the Netherlands, about that difference if the ECB had done nothing. It cannot be explained that Mr Omtzigt does not agree with that. I would like to look at the plans put forward by Mr Omtzigt to see how we can solve them, but as long as he continues to say here in the House of Representatives how horrible he thinks it is, when he then votes away solutions that can be an improvement for many pensioners, those plans are worthless.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-3.u38	I am also pleased that the PVV supported this motion. But it's not a solution to say "we get 1.6% interest" when you get 0% interest. That is not a solution, that is a way of saying: we are moving the problem backwards. That is why I want the problem to be tackled at its core, and that is that buy-back programme, which should never have been there to this extent. That needs to be addressed. That it is not easy and that it will not be possible within a day, I recognise immediately, but it will have an impact on what our pension system looks like. That's why I want that CPB study here as soon as possible, so that it's open on the table what the impact is. That impact on our pension system could, according to my calculations, be above 150 billion. We are always talking about the question: should we add a little extra to the Brussels budget? These are the real costs that we, as the Netherlands, have because of one monetary policy. And they are far greater than the cost of, for example, the Brussels budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-3.u39	Thank you, Mr. Ommzigt. The Minister can proceed immediately. I am happy to give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-3.u40	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to thank the Chamber for its questions. I'll stop by first for a few questions and then discuss the motions. Mr Van Weyenberg asked a specific question about the AIO. It is right that Mr Van Weyenberg should draw attention to this. Mrs Van Brenk and Mr Slootweg and Mr Omtzigt also drew attention to this in the written questions relating to the report of the Court of Auditors. I have been in contact with Mr Irrgang, Member of the Court of Auditors, on this point. I understand the frustration about the little use at this time of the scheme to provide people with incomplete AOW-building income support. We are now mapping the possibilities for file comparison. Then you have to strike a balance with the protection of privacy. That's always the search, but I also indicated to Mr Irrgang that, as far as I'm concerned, we really need to take a step further in order to make this possible. That's what we're doing right now. I sent a letter to your room yesterday about this. I'm still in consultation with the G4 among others. Mr Groot Wassink, the alderman of Amsterdam, has drawn attention to this. I am also in agreement with the SVB to resolve this. Just give me a minute to think about the possibilities of reducing non-use. But we're working on it. Mr Van Weyenberg's second point is also raised on the points. The solution I have chosen has indeed sought to strike a balance between young and old. It is also limited in time, because we also need time to work out the pension agreement. Mr Omtzigt had two specific questions, but did not table any motions. One question was about the transfer of the CPB. The CPB has already started. I agree with him that we need to have a clear picture quickly. It is actually about the demand for capital cover versus cover against the background of low interest rates. Last week, at Mrs Van Brenk's request, I sent the investigation questions to the Chamber. Indeed, that research must be completed before the summer so that we can take the whole package together. In addition, I promised in the AO that in December I would go into the sums relating to the current and the new contract, to the significance of the low interest rate for that contract comparison. That was new to me, because I had misunderstood that in the previous AO. And through the hairs of the eyes: what does that mean for the build-up, for the volatility? The questions raised by Mr Omtzigt on this matter are to be included in the December progress report. But I had just misunderstood it in the previous AO. I apologize for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-3.u41	Mr. Ommzigt, do you have a question about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-3.u42	Thank you. Thank you for both commitments. In fact, the question was implied whether the Minister would like to give the CPB that it also takes the ECB study which now says it is 1.6% as an input into the question of what ECB policy means for the optimal choice. Does the ECB's policy force us to go back to a pay-as-you-go system and does the ECB's policy prevent us from maintaining the capital coverage system? That question actually needs to be answered now that that difference is so great. How the CPB answers that question, of course, is up to the CPB.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-3.u43	The CPB is always independent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-3.u44	I'm glad you did.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-3.u45	I think that is a valid point. Of course, that's not entirely new either. Philip Lane spoke last week in London about 1.6%. A year ago it was 0.95%, it was 95 basis points, but also with a range in between. So it's not a new phenomenon. But we will ask the CPB to include this question in the investigation. Moreover, there is also another story, namely that low interest rates naturally also have an impact on the economy, on the stock markets and on bond prices. So it has an effect on both sides of the balance sheet. This is often forgotten in this discussion. You can't just say that if you throw 1.6% on top of it, the coverage rate is suddenly much higher. It should therefore be borne in mind that, for example, the prices on the housing market and the real estate market, and the stock prices or bond prices have increased significantly as a result of the fall in interest rates. Mr Omtzigt knows that. I think his point is correct, and we are taking it with us. I'm getting to the motions. The motion in part No. 506 by Mrs Van Brenk is about the accounting rate. She knows my position on this. I'm dissuading the motion. Then the motion to part No. 507 by Mrs Van Brenn on the consultation with a delegation of the signatories of the prominent letter, the 60 people who signed the letter. I regularly speak with members of this group of prominent people, but also with members of the group of professors who sent a counter-letter a day later. It is precisely in order to take the scientific insights into the development of the pension agreement that we also have a scientific reflection in the steering committee and in the working groups for the elaboration of the pension agreement. There are a number of professors and experts who have either signed the prominent letter or the professor's letter. There is therefore no point in having separate consultations with the representatives of these groups. We are therefore taking their sounds into account in the scientific deliberations on the elaboration of the pension agreement. That's why I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-3.u46	I can withdraw that motion if I get a commitment from the Minister on another part. The Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-3.u47	Are we dealing?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-3.u48	Yeah, sure. I'm from a negotiator's house. In the First Chamber, the Prime Minister spoke really nonsense about Mr Van Rooijen, in the sense that he interpreted the letter quite differently. Maybe the Minister will at least talk to the Prime Minister about what the letter really means. At least that would matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-3.u49	I have done so, both for the debate on the General Political Reviews in this Chamber and for the General Political Reviews in the First Chamber. I found the summary, although of course there are all kinds of nuances, of the Prime Minister of the letter rather accurate. I had a very nice conversation with Mr Van Rooijen in the corridors of the First Chamber, for half an hour. We had a little more time to look up the nuances, I'll say. But believe me when I say that I have talked to the Prime Minister about this in detail. Are you holding your motion now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-3.u50	No, no. I am very disappointed in the Prime Minister, but that seems clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-3.u51	You'll have to take that up with the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-3.u52	The Minister will continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-3.u53	I come to the motion by Mr Van Kent and Mrs Van Brenk on item No. 508. It calls on me to enter into consultations with the parties to remove the threat of a reduction for 600,000 pensioners. I would like to make it very clear that if we had done nothing, 7.8 million members of pension funds would have received a discount next year. This measure reduced that number to 600,000. I agree with Mr Gijs van Dijk that this is about funds which are structurally bad for them. Each border is indeed arbitrary, but you must set a limit. The moment of measurement remains 31 December of this year. On the basis of the figures at the end of October, there are 600,000 pensioners, compared with 7.8 million pensioners. But the moment of measurement remains December 31st of this year. If it recovers, it will become fewer people, but if it gets worse, it can become more. These funds are really bad. Mr Van Weyenberg was right to say that we also included a 90% backstop in the pension agreement. If the percentage is below that, we need to restore this to a healthy situation. Against that background, I advise against this motion. Then I am in favour of Mr De Jong's motion on item No. 509. It's also about the calculus rate. You know my opinion on this. It is very tempting to go into the example of Mr Van Kent at this VAO about what kind of caravans you can buy, but I am not going to do that. I'm dissuading the motion. I can see Mr De Jong looking surprised, but he wasn't there at the time. Mr Van Kent gave a very good example of saving caravans.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-3.u54	Your judgment is clear. This brings us to the end of this VOC on the subject of pensions. The vote on the motions will take place next Tuesday. I am suspending for a few moments, because I do not yet see all the spokesmen on the next subject.
