ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u1	The next item is the debate on the Supplementary Act on environmental legislation. I would like to welcome the Minister and the Secretary of State. Of course, I would also like to welcome Members and the people in the public gallery.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u2	We have agreed a lot of speaking time. I'm gonna give it to you, too. First, I give the floor to Mr Smeulders van GroenLinks. Mr. Smeulders, you have 12 minutes, but they don't have to be on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are again talking about a supplemental law that is part of the system of the new Environmental Law or the new environmental law that we are making. The soil was treated about a month and a half ago; nature was treated yesterday. Today the Supplementary Act sound is on the agenda. The Environment Act must make everything simpler and better. So far, however, my group does not have the idea that the system is going to be really simpler. That is what we are seeing now that we are getting input from society. For many organisations, the new system, especially as regards the subject before us today, is really very difficult to understand. If the organisations involved, often with professionals, are unable to do so, how can citizens do so immediately, I would ask the directors. It is not necessarily easier, but GroenLinks also strongly wonders whether the Environment Act will actually improve the quality of the environment. In fact, we do not think that is the case. That is why we voted as one of the few parties against the introduction of the Environment Act. The Environment Act seems to be a major deregulation operation. Especially in a small country like the Netherlands, where space is scarce, the government must direct the fragile space that we still have, and we must set clear minimum standards to be respected by municipalities, provinces and water authorities. Only then can we protect the quality of our living environment and thus the vulnerabilities as well as possible. As I said, today the Supplementary Act is ahead of us. When I say to people, for example in the group, that we are going to discuss the Supplementary Act sound, there are some eyebrows going up first, which I think means something like "success with it." But pretty soon we will talk about Schiphol or Lelystad and the noise pollution caused by this airport and this possibly future airport. Let's hope it doesn't happen. When I explain that this law is about noise, but not about the noise of those airports, nobody understands that. After all, if there is one source of noise that a lot of people really suffer from, and perhaps even more after the opening of Lelystad, it is aviation. Can the rulers indicate why they did not choose to include aviation in the Environmental Act? If the Environment Act is the comprehensive law for the living environment, why not include the biggest causer of noise pollution in this brand new system? The proposal before us is of a very technical nature. A lot of standards are included in lower regulations. GroenLinks has difficulty with this, as we have pointed out in previous debates, because it also reduces Parliament's control of these often important standards. I would therefore like to hear from the Minister of the Interior how she is going to ensure that parliamentary control is maintained. I have just said that noise is a major source of nuisance for many people. Whether you live near an airport, right along the highway or in the middle of a busy city, noise can also cause health damage to people. It is therefore important that the government sets good standards so that health damage can be reduced as much as possible. The tricky thing about noise is that it is often not immediately clear that there will be health damage. Being exposed to noise does not cause you to have a huge problem at once. But it can lead to long-term damage. It is therefore not for nothing that the WHO, the World Health Organisation, has drawn up guidelines for combating noise pollution. According to WHO, environmental noise in many places in Europe, and certainly in the Netherlands, is too loud. This is harmful to our health, even more harmful than we have thought so far. The WHO study also shows that noise is one of the most influential environmental factors in human health. Excessive noise can lead to both physical and mental problems. For example, too much noise can also cause stress, which can cause blood pressure to rise. This can lead to cardiovascular diseases, including fatal infarcts. There are also links between excessive noise and impaired metabolism. What is the status, I ask the Secretary of State, of the examination of how the WHO report relates to current legislation and regulations? Does it share the view that WTO standards should serve as a basis for the standards we apply in the Netherlands? Can it promise that if these investigations show that our laws and regulations do not comply, they will be amended? Mr. Chairman. The starting point of the Environmental Act, as it is always said, is that the level of protection does not deteriorate. But is that also true in the case of sound? Noise experts from the Netherlands Noise Foundation, which we have spoken, indicate that the preferred values and maximum noise values will rise with the advent of the Environmental Act. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State on this. Can it really promise that the level of protection in the underlying regulation will not deteriorate compared to current legislation? Mr. Chairman. From the provinces and municipalities we get signals that they think that the local administrative balancing area is being restricted. This is also interesting as a result of the debate we had just had on living. GroenLinks also believes it is important to provide local tailor-made services, as long as local authorities comply with the minimum standards, which we as the government have said should apply to the whole of the Netherlands and which are at least necessary to protect the health of citizens, nature and the environment. Can the Secretary of State address the concerns expressed by municipalities and provinces in this regard? Another concern of municipalities and provinces is the division of responsibility between governments and industry in the noise production ceilings; that is a good word for Scrabble. My group understands some of these concerns. That is why I wonder if it would not be more logical for the municipalities but the industry itself to take measures to achieve the environmental values. I'd like a response from the rulers to that. Municipalities are also concerned about the introduction of the new instrument: the basic noise emission, the BGE. The concern lies in the fact that, according to the idea of the municipalities, a new system is being established. To be honest, I can imagine that concern. That is why there are a number of questions to the Secretary of State. Can the Secretary of State explain how the BGE relates to the instruments of the Environment Act and the basic noise map based on the EU Environmental Noise Directive? Can the Secretary of State clarify the necessity of BGE in relation to the objectives of the Scheme Review Environment Act? Mr. Chairman. As a result, another question about the role of the municipalities. In the new legal system, municipalities are given more tasks and powers. However, do the municipalities have sufficient resources and expertise to carry out these new tasks? Or do they, for example, consult the Environment Services? I'm curious how both regiments judge that. Finally, I would like to return to the health aspect. In the more than ten years I have been politically active, I have always heard D66 as a great advocate of this aspect, as well as the idea that health should be given a much stronger place in our spatial rules and in our legal standards. A number of frameworks are mentioned in the Supplementary Decision, which has recently been submitted for consultation. However, we do not specifically see the importance of public health in the balance of interests. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, it would be good to include this explicitly. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State on this. I am considering a motion on this point in the second term. So much for my first term. I look forward to replying to the directors. Apologies in advance for the people watching, that it may be a bit more technical than usual, but it is also an incredibly complicated bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u4	Thank you. I call Mr Van Gerven of the Socialist Party. He's got ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u5	Mr. Chairman. I was cycling last weekend in Ravenstein, a beautiful place in North Brabant. I went there to a very busy restaurant near the Meuse. I want to make a sound to hear what was good there. Let's see if this experiment works. This is the A50 at Ravenstein, a very busy road. That goes all the time from kedéng kedéng. Then you sit there, on that beautiful Meuse, and those people hear all day, and also at night, that sound. I was wondering, because we have discussed this before in the Chamber, what is the state of play in solving the noise problem in Ravenstein. We're now dealing with the Environment Act, sound. Then that's an example of how it shouldn't be. That A50 is also quite high compared to the city of Ravenstein, which makes it extra bothersome, especially at night.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u6	An interruption by Mr von Martels.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u7	I was wondering what Mr Van Gerven is trying to bring forward, because I just happened to be wearing my decibel meter. How many decibels did he think there were to be heard the moment those cars ran past?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u8	How many decibels? I don't know. I was there at that restaurant and I heard it very clearly. The relative nuisance has been very high there for years, there are no sound screens and they are not built directly, while other parts of the A50 and the A59 are built or built. The people of Ravenstein do not understand that they are not being dealt with, while they are acting elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u9	I think that both Mr Van Gerven and I believe that it is undesirable that we should be exposed to noise very regularly. I also had the decibel meter on with the previous speaker, van GroenLinks. He got even further, up to 85 dB. Do you think that there should also be a production ceiling for Members of Parliament when it comes to the tone they say?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u10	I would consider this to be freedom of speech. There may also be a large or loud pitch.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u11	Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u12	I don't know if that was 85 dB, because that's really hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u13	You will resume your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u14	Here we are again. That's what I'm saying to Minister Ollongren. You never see each other like that, and that's how you see the minister more often than your own wife, I'd say. At least that applies to me when dealing with the Environment Act, noise. In the written round prior to this debate, my group expressed its surprise at the limitation of the scope of this law to rules on infrastructure and industry. In particular, my group has been surprised by the lack of explicit reference to noise rules for wind turbines, whereas there is a great deal to be done at the moment. In the area of De Drentse Monden there were even threats to the owners of the land on which the windmills are placed and to the contractors who are going to put them there. That cannot, of course, be the purpose of the energy transformation that we all support. The SP has great objections to placing those 45 windmills with a total height of about 200 meters close to residential centres, especially on private land. Some wealthy wind farmers get the profits, the lusts. The residents, who often don't have a penny to pay, get the nuisance, the burdens. All this has been made possible by the use of the Crisis and Recovery Act to reduce participation opportunities. That is particularly unjust and undemocratic. Mr. Chairman. I could also have given other examples of places where it is very sanding and wringing as a result of the installation of windmills: Venlo, Utrecht, Urk. In many places they lead to a degree of resistance. Often this happens for various reasons, but usually the general denominator is that large wind farms cause a lot of noise. High mills, of course, catch more wind. That's nice, but they also produce more sound. Now the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and Water State has replied to previous questions from the SP that the rules in the so-called Activity Decision environmental management are incorporated in the Quality of Living Environment Decision and that the noise standards for wind turbines are included in it; this would ultimately change nothing about these standards. But one of the consequences of installing increasingly large windmills is that it is certainly true for mills that are as large as the mills that are now being placed.The increase in the low frequency sound, the lfg. This form of sound has the characteristic that it carries far beyond the higher, more audible tones. That also has to do with resonating through the walls. That makes it even better in the houses than out there. As a result: health problems. It's been on the rise for a few years. There is also reason to believe that it leads, for example, to disrupting the sleep rhythm. That's very unwelcome. It contributes to stress and may eventually lead to cardiovascular diseases. The government has conducted policy research on this subject through RIVM. The results have led to a systematic investigation. If it's right, it's going to be done this year. The reason I'm quoting this investigation is Denmark. That is, of course, the land of modern windmills. I think they're pretty much invented there. It is also a country that has been able to make its energy production more sustainable, particularly by windmills. But there are also standards for low frequency noise, unlike in the Netherlands, if I understood correctly. Those standards have been in place since the 1990s and have been further strengthened in 2011 due to the growth of the number, but also due to the size of the Danish wind turbines. No standards have been set in the Netherlands in this respect. So my question is to the cabinet: why don't we? Why don't we follow the Danish model? We think this is a good starting point, because there is reason to think that this low frequency sound has health effects. In view of the precautionary principle, is it not wise to take measures and set standards? Once a windmill is in place, an investment of that size is not just gone, but the complaints are there. Isn't prevention better than being unable to heal? Once again, this is what wind energy is all about. It is one of the best and most reliable alternatives to fossil energy, but we are in a country that is completely overcrowded in that respect. Lots of people and very little space. I would just remind you of the 2018 letter from Minister Wiebes, in which he indicated that the PBL was based on 2,000 windmills in the Netherlands of at least 4 MW. That's a huge number on a very small surface. Then it is extremely important that we have very good noise standards. And extreme care is required to maintain the health of those closest to the windmills. I am considering a second-term motion on this point. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u15	Thank you. Then Mrs Van Eijs of D66 has the floor. She has eight minutes' speaking time. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u16	Thank you, Mr President. This is another step in the completion of the Environment Act. Combating noise pollution is of great importance for safe and healthy living, working and learning. I myself experience every day how incriminating sound can be. I'm always happy when the hearing aids get off again, so I can imagine a lot of that. But research carried out by the World Health Organisation also shows that it simply has health consequences for everyone, and that everyone suffers if there is too much noise. That is why we support the purpose of this Supplementary Act. We also support the objective of improving clarity and ease of use, but we still have some questions about noise production ceilings, monitoring and participation opportunities. It is good that noise production ceilings protect the environment around roads and industry from too much noise. D66 also supports the exit principle "decentral, unless." But the Council of State also notes that local authorities are given a broad degree of responsibility. They note, however, that they are not convinced in advance that equivalent protection for citizens is guaranteed by this proposal. Can the Secretary of State give a reflection on these findings? How does she take this into account in the further development? How can we be sure that citizens everywhere are assured of a safe and healthy environment in terms of noise, without compromising the local space for policy? At the same time, it is important to be able to deviate locally from the standards if the situation so requires. The Council of State notes that there is insufficient explanation of the possibilities for different noise standards. How can local authorities gain a better understanding of the possibilities for reasoned deviations from the implementing rules in the noise standards? We are also receiving signals from industry that the current proposal does not always clearly identify the sources of noise involved in determining the noise level. In addition, according to the Secretary of State, it is more difficult for industry to translate the current situation into noise production ceilings. In what way does the Secretary of State ensure clarity? Which activities are covered by the noise level? What is the time frame for the transition? How is industry included? And what about the relationship between the person who can take the measures in an industrial area and the person who can do so under the law when the standards are exceeded? Think of the management of a business area, where the measures may eventually be taken by the companies themselves. In addition, the proposal deals with the new basic noise emission system, BGE, and associated monitoring. It seems that the adoption of measures in the event of a breach of these frameworks is not always feasible. Is this new system, with associated monitoring, feasible for municipalities, also given the timetable of the proposal? The Secretary of State states that the addition and accumulation of noise will still be regulated in the Supplementary Decision. The VNG notes that the effect of this accumulation and the addition of noise sources is not yet sufficiently clear to municipalities. Does the Secretary of State recognize these signals? Does she take these with her in the further development? How is it ensured that there is sufficient expertise available to local authorities and representatives of the people to fill in this addition and accumulation of different types of sound? This is complicated matter. Is it clear to all parties when they are going to do so? And is the effect done in such a way that it is acceptable to all parties? Participation and participation in the Environmental Act are of great importance for D66. The Secretary of State states that citizens can contact local authorities when applying central standards and frameworks, e.g. when drawing up an environmental plan. How do we make it clear to citizens how they can participate? Because we must prevent participation from being on paper only. Such an environmental plan, for example, becomes a very large piece. Doesn't something technically difficult like sound go away? Do people make use of the opportunity to provide the participation they want to provide? In the case of D66, it is still not sufficiently clear how participation has been secured when the noise production ceilings are applied. It seems as if the possibility of participation as it existed in the Environmental Management Act no longer exists if these ceilings are designed as environmental values. Are participation and objection in the Environmental Act at the same level as in the Environmental Management Act possible? If not, how does the Secretary of State guarantee the possibility of participation and objection? In short, how can we be sure that people's involvement in their environment and their concerns are sufficiently heard and taken into account? How do we make that happen? Finally. In 2018, the World Health Organisation, WHO, issued a report on the effects of noise pollution. This also provided advice values for different sources of sound. The Secretary of State does not directly suggest that the standards in the legislative proposal should be adapted, but the Advisory Committee on Regulatory Pressure says that tightening of WTO standards will not be ruled out. The ATR recommends that the deadline for any changes to the WHO opinion be specified. The ATR also asks how unnecessary burden increase can be avoided as a result of possible tightening of noise standards. Can the Secretary of State reflect on these concerns?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u17	I have another question on that last point. It is also a bit in line with the argument I myself made about the potential noise pollution of windmills. What does D66 think of the idea of tightening noise standards by windmills and, for example, bringing them to Danish level?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u18	Sorry, I didn't get that last one, very appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u19	In Denmark, you have noise standards for wind turbines. They are sharper and are at a higher level than in the Netherlands, particularly with regard to low frequency noise, which is not laid down in the Netherlands. The SP is in favour of laying down this noise burden in standards as well. We can bring it to Danish level, as I call it, in the interests of public health. My question to the D66 Group is whether it has any ears for that. Does it want to do so in the interests of public health?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u20	I have to admit that I do not have enough knowledge of low frequency noise to answer the question of what standards I would like to see incorporated into the law. I assume that we in the Netherlands are protecting people's health, at least that is the intention of the standards we have. I would therefore ask the Secretary of State to see if that is necessary, but I must honestly say that I myself do not have enough knowledge of low frequency noise to say whether it should be laid down in the law and, if so, at what level.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u21	We shall then await the response of the rulers, because they will, of course, explain and explain. If I have a motion of this kind, I hope D66 will take a favourable look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u22	Mrs. Van Gerven. Excuse me, I mean Mrs. Van Eijs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u23	I like to look at it. I hope that the information on low-frequency sound will be sent along with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u24	Sorry, Mr. Van Gerven, for the slip.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u25	I wanted to say that Mr Van Eijs agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u26	You brought up your wife yourself, so I'm sure it's because of that. Mrs. Van Eijs, were you done with your contribution? Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to Mr von Martels of the CDA, for his contribution of up to eight minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u27	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. I also wonder which tone to take, because it is really not that you are better heard when you produce more sound. It is often the other way around: if you produce less sound, you are better heard. So maybe I should keep talking at this pitch. When I heard my colleagues, I noticed that there is a huge difference in the number of decibels they produce. This varies from an average of 75 dB to 85 dB. So I should actually table a fun motion here to ask if we should not set a ceiling on the noise ceiling here in the Chamber. Who knows, I'm gonna do that, but it's just a matter of waiting to see how it all develops. Anyway, we're gonna talk about sound. Noise can indeed lead to discomfort, sleep disturbance, disruption of daily activities and stress. These effects may in turn lead to higher blood pressure and increased levels of stress hormone cortisol, increasing the risk of cardiovascular disease and mental illness. However, noise may also directly result in physiological reactions, such as increased blood pressure. Sound can also have a negative impact on children's ability to concentrate and learn. It is therefore necessary that we proceed carefully with this legislation. After all, it concerns our health. Mr. Chairman. The Minister responded in the note following the report to our criticism that this supplemental law is very unclear and difficult to read. Fortunately, I am not the only one who noticed this; others also had difficulty with the text. The Minister agrees with us. But because the Environment Act is not structured on the basis of substantive themes such as sound, we no longer see a separate sound paragraph but sound provisions are added to the chapters on the tasks and powers of administrative bodies and the instruments of the Environment Act. This sentence is difficult enough in itself! It does indeed make the proposed Supplementary Act sound as a separate law very difficult to read. We understand the reason for this method, but it must eventually become a well-readable and understandable law. It should not be a book of incomprehensible abracadabra texts which can only be explained to ordinary citizens by a few professional lawyers. How will the Minister ensure that the Environment Act is readable and accessible with all its supplementary laws? We are also concerned about the noise zones, not because noise zones are now called 'noise areas', which is a term that is more consistent with other similar concepts in the Environmental Act, but because there is a danger of confusion here too. The existing noise zones do not change in the noise focus areas. In practice, the current noise zones are sometimes too tight and sometimes too wide. Thus in some situations there are higher noise loads than the default value outside the sound zone, while in others the sound zone can be reduced without noise loads exceeding the default value outside that zone. The methodology for determining the size of the noise focus area will therefore differ from the current methodology of the noise zones. Does the Minister have any idea of the extent of these differences? Do we run the risk that, for example, a lot of homes suddenly have too much noise? Mr. Chairman. Our group had also questioned the fact that there would be more room for administrative consideration. This law grants wider powers to decentralised administrative bodies. These broader powers are nice, but they can also lead to undesirable unequal treatment. We specifically asked whether, in practice, the municipality of A has a different value for the basic noise emission for, for example, a school than the municipality of B, the starting point being that the conditions in which the schools are located are exactly the same. The Minister responds extensively, but I do not read a specific 'yes' or 'no' anywhere. We also wonder how the old and the new systems can be compared when it comes to the equivalent level of protection. That's what the Council of State had to worry about. Is this new law going to be more flexible or stricter? The Minister says that the noise rules are going to provide at least an equivalent level of protection overall, on a national average. That's a reasonable comfort. But the Minister says that not only did it look at a comparison of the values of numbers, of the standards, but also that the method of application is relevant in practice and that it looked at elements in the new noise rules that will improve protection compared to existing laws and regulations. From the last point of view, it is going to be more stringent. Is that true or is that not true? The Minister is about the sound along the highways. The Ministry doesn't just start taking a noise-related measure. Before laying still asphalt or placing a screen, the Minister first determines the result on the basis of a legal methodology or the cost of the measure. That is the criterion of efficiency. The legal basis is the Ministerial System of Effectiveness Noise Measures Act. However, we regularly get signals that people think that this arrangement is too strict. People may experience noise, but there is no screen, because it does not fit within the scheme. I have a few questions about that. When and in what way does the System of Effectiveness Noise Measures Act come into the Environment Act? Two. When has this Regulation been evaluated? Has it been evaluated yet? And would the Minister consider a relaxation of that arrangement and submit to the Chamber some variants of relaxation? Mr. Chairman. Those were my final words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u28	Thank you very much. Finally, Mr Ziengs of the VVD has the floor and he has ten minutes to make his contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u29	Thank you, Mr President. I suspect that Mr Von Martels has now turned on his decibelmeter again. I'm trying to stay within standards, Lord Von Martels! The VVD stands for a safe society with a good environment. We are also going for good connections, because roads, railways and waterways are important for a trading country like the Netherlands. Of course, we have to take into account, among other things, the noise nuisance for residents. As a VVD, we want to work with standards in the laws and regulations without having to fall into complex model calculations to map environmental impacts. And basically the same applies to the sound models. I'll start with the heading policy neutral. The objective for the incorporation of the mentioned laws into the Environment Act was and is to do this policy neutral. That was the deal. The agreement was also not to change laws. From both the municipalities and the business community, I still get the sound that does not seem to exist everywhere in the law. Mrs Van Eijs also mentioned the companies and indeed the municipalities. Specific points are, for example, the inclusion of noise which has not been taken into account when setting the limit values. The sudden inclusion of this noise, for example, can have a major impact on, among other things, the competitiveness of industry. I have therefore asked for a so-called transposition table. I didn't even know what that was before. But once I was reminded of that, I thought: I'm going to apply for one of those things. I have the table here in front of me and I went through it well after we got it on the e-mail last night. What has actually been converted one-on-one and where are the differences? Apparently, that's one of those tables. What was the old situation and what is the new situation? This is, of course, intended to remove the uncertainties and uncertainties about the incorporation of these laws into the Environmental Act. I have just indicated that it has always been the objective to implement the transposition into the Environmental Law policy neutrally. And that must be the commitment of the Secretary of State, my group believes. A number of questions related to that transposition table. In the old situation, there was no monitoring of provincial, municipal and waterways, and this will seem to be the case in the new situation. What will be the consequences of this for the determination of a lower value or a higher value than the pre-established standard? Can a decision be taken immediately? I am thinking, for example, of speeding up driving on a provincial road, because the noise value is considerably lower. It could be the other way around. Let me now turn to my second point on the table. The preferred value and the maximum value, as currently mentioned in the Noise Act, are called "standard value" and "limit value." I was almost lost, but slowly you get into the matter. Is that really policy-neutral, I ask the Secretary of State. I think that was one of the points Mr von Martels has just made. Let me start with the railroad noise. There is a reference to a change in the standard for railway noise. It is adjusted from 68 dB to 65 dB. That does not seem to be a good measure for our group, because this strengthened standard puts urban renewal near industrial sites at risk by replacement new construction. At least that will appeal to Minister Ollongren. This is happening at a time when more housing is important. Does the Secretary of State and the Minister also see the risk to housing? Is it not important, in view of the shortage in the housing market, that urban renewal near industrial sites can continue? And policy-neutral it is to keep the standard at 68 dB, as it is originally written. I'm getting to the source measures. These source measures are specifically addressed under the noise objectives. That is a really positive point in the effort, because the VVD election programme also contains an extensive mention of our commitment to source policy to address environmental, traffic and noise problems. Here, the Secretary of State also has the right line. In addition to tackling possible noise pollution, source measures also ensure continuous innovation in infrastructure and vehicles, and that is what we are going to do together. Finally, I come to the heading of decentralisation and competent authority. Proposed changes in indoor values lead, inter alia, to changes in the system for better protection of spaces within sound-sensitive buildings. Here it is stated that if the standard is exceeded, the sound level should be reduced to 3 dB below the standard. That seems a bit of a strange way of enforcing it. Because if the sound standard is 50 dB, but the sound level is 52 dB, the offender must reduce this to 47 dB. What is the idea behind this, I ask the Secretary of State. And why is it not enough to reduce the noise level to a maximum of 50 dB, as required by the law? This is not a policy-neutral proposal, I ask the Secretary of State. The VVD embraces the commitment to ultimately have an Environment Act that should make it easier to grant and obtain permits, but when transposing the original laws into the new law, the "policy neutral" line will have to be applied by agreement. I will deliver this message in the first term. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u30	Thank you very much. I understand from the rulers that they need about fifteen minutes to prepare for their response.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u31	I give the floor to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations to answer her question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today it's about the bill for the Supplementary Noise Act Environment Act. As Mr Smeulders said, we have already talked about soil. Last night we talked about nature here. That was part in the same company and part in another company. I was here yesterday with colleague Schouten and I am here tonight with colleague Van Veldhoven. This is another step in a comprehensive system review, which we are trying to achieve a coherent approach to the living environment. That is what this is really about, as I say with emphasis in the direction of Mr Smeulders. That's not easy, but it's a good cause to work on. The standardisation of noise from roads, railways and industrial sites is partly a policy innovation. It is decoupled from the main path, because it is important to have a proper debate on it. This policy renewal is about the noise of decentralised roads and industrial sites. We want to protect citizens from the autonomous growth of noise pollution. We want to live in a healthy country. Many of the speakers have just spoken about this. That is what we stand for from the cabinet. We're looking for a balance between protecting and developing. This is a social objective and that is also very clearly the objective of the Environment Act. We want to protect people. We're thinking about health. We also want homes to be built for those same people. We want newcomers to have a chance at the housing market. I think that this bill fits in well with that balance between protecting and exploiting and that it can also give direction to that. The Supplementary Noise Act must enter into force at the same time as the Environmental Law. With the Environment Act, we have a toolbox in our hands to create and maintain a safe and healthy living environment. Noise pollution and the rules we lay down for this are an essential part of it. With these complete and coherent instruments, we can better shape the social challenges, such as housing, but also mobility. All this with the four improvements of the system of the Environment Act, which also apply to all complementary traces. That is insightfulness, so that it is predictable and so that it is easy to use legislation. That is a coherent approach in policy, decision-making and regulation, as I have just said. That is more administrative discretion and speeding up and improving that decision-making. In addition, there is the administrative innovation in practice, which, as far as I am concerned, is not insignificant, with participation in advance and not afterwards, with an equal information position between citizens and government, with better cooperation between government levels, and with transparency about rules and decision-making. That system review is a very special process. It is a very interplay of laws and underlying decisions. The Environment Act, the introduction law, the supplemental laws and later also the AMvB's that belong to them. This is how we are building a new system here, and with the other governments, step by step. Mr. Chairman. The questions I would like to answer are mainly about the system more generally and about participation. In addition, a single question has been asked that lies more in the field of housing, for example, or the role of municipalities. For the rest of the questions I would like to refer to the Secretary of State, who speaks after me. She will also answer a large number of questions. Mr Smeulders asked whether this legislative proposal actually involved decentralisation. That's not true. Insofar as that is the case, it is really very limited. Existing legislation is actually being codified again. Maintaining what it's like is one of the basic principles. Only the Decision looked at the living environment's rules that could be improved locally. In doing so, municipalities were given a task to establish location-oriented general rules. In order to facilitate the transition, we give those rules at the time of entry into force. We call that the so-called dowry. Mr Smeulders also wondered whether there was, in some sense, a limitation of the local balancing area. The additional decision indeed limits the local administrative balancing area, but that is sometimes also necessary to protect health. The proposed rules are about as strict as the current ones and have an equivalent level of protection. It doesn't really change much. We are still processing the consultations when it comes to the supplementary decision. You can also talk to the cabinet about that again. That does not happen until autumn, when that is the case. Mr Smeulders also spoke about improving the quality of the environment. He asked if it really gets better by the new Environment Act and by this part of it. The Environment Act offers the same package of opportunities to protect the environment. The AMvBs provide an equivalent level of protection, equivalent to current legislation. But we expect improvement, because integration into a single legal system creates much more coherence and much more clarity and hence improvement in policy and decision-making. That seems to me to be a good thing. How does parliamentary control work? The Supplementary Decision sound will soon be subject to a preliminary procedure. That is the guarantee the Chamber has for substantive involvement. As I said, it is planned for the second half of this year. Mr Smeulders, but also Mr von Martels of the CDA, asked about the comprehensibility of the law and the texts. A law in itself is not always very insightful, although we must strive for it. I understand that very well. Such a debate. The legal texts, when you browse through them, will not be accessible to everyone. I think we all have a bit of a problem with that, too. In the end, the whole thing gets much more insightful. For users, the digital system we are creating is very important for both citizens and governments as well as businesses. This must be user-friendly, even more user-friendly than the law, which must be legally well-established. In that digital system, we turn complicated legal terms into understandable language. The explanation in the digital system is written in plain Dutch. We make sure that people with questions can go somewhere, namely the Information Point Environment Act. As I said to Mr Smeulders, it is not a deregulation operation. I've already said a few things about that. Mr. Chairman. The next point is a bit of a sidetrack, but I would like to comment on it. The Secretary of State may say something about it, too. Mr Van Gerven spoke of windmills. The reason I would like to say something about it is not so much what we are discussing today, but that Mr Van Gerven referred to the Crisis and Recovery Act. He had the impression that citizens would be less well protected when the Crisis and Recovery Act is used. It is true that with the Chw it is possible, for example, to place a windmill temporarily for 30 years, but even then citizens can simply go to court. It does not affect the legal protection of citizens at all. I was going to say that anyway, so there's no misunderstanding about it. Mr. Chairman. Then participation. Mrs Van Eijs asked about this and wondered whether there was sufficient participation and whether participation was part of this law. She referred to the complexity I was just talking about. It highlighted the importance it attaches to participation and participation. I think this is exactly what we are improving with this legislation. We're gonna get people up front informed. We make complex permits, regulations etc. transparent in a clear, uniform, open preparation procedure. Anyone can submit views. The decision must always be justified. I think that Mrs Van Eijs should know that participation is at the forefront here, including in the design.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u33	I would like to return to the previous point raised by the Minister: the windmills and the Crisis and Recovery Act. Man's perception is not always the Minister's perception, but I do not want to go on with that. I would like to continue with the remark I made in my speech that the SP Group in this supplementary law lacks the windmills. It is mainly about tracks, roads, industrial sites and the like, but not about things like windmills. Or is that the case?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u34	As I said before, I am going off the trail for a moment because of the link made by Mr Van Gerven with the Crisis and Restoration Act, so the Secretary of State will deal with what is and what is not, because that has also been mentioned in a number of other examples. I would like to refer you to my colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u35	Thank you. Then there's Mrs. Van Eijs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u36	I had another question about the participation. I am glad to hear that the DSO is becoming much more accessible than this legal text; I think that is pleasant for everyone. It remains the case that such an environmental plan, in which a large part of this kind of thing falls into, becomes a very large thing when it comes to the city council. I can imagine that a technical subject like'sound' falls away if, for example, there is a construction plan somewhere, and that is what we are looking at. How are we going to ensure that all these technical aspects, all these different health aspects, are also understandable to people in an environmental plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u37	Council members are also people, so in that respect I think Mrs Van Eijs means both the people who have to work with them, the officials, and the people who have to decide on them as representatives, as citizens and residents of municipalities who are involved. They are to some extent different target groups. I think that at the DSO it is very important that it is very clear in terms of design and not legal but user-friendly in terms of language. Of course, what is approved by municipal councils will require a bit more intensive reading, but it is the aim to write that down as clearly as possible, so that you can see and assess all aspects and get a good deal of work done, I would almost say. You have to be sure that the aspects you consider important have been sufficiently taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u38	I can also imagine that we are watching each other for this to happen and whether it can be handled by the municipal councils that have to decide on it in so many municipalities. Is that in the evaluation or the monitoring?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u39	It's already in the approach we have now. We are already preparing the municipalities, in cooperation with the VNG and other parties, how to deal with this. We're doing experiments and we already have an example of how the DSO is going to work. It's actually already in practice working with it. That is very important to me, because this preparation will undoubtedly reveal things that can be better, clearer and more insightful. That can then be considered on the way to the moment when it finally takes effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u40	Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u41	Mr. Chairman. The thing about participation. A few comments on the relationship with housing and construction. Indeed, we have a strong housing inventory and we want to maintain construction production. Of course there is a connection with sound. We want it to be pleasant and healthy, both in the house and when you are in your garden or on the balcony. So we need to know how we deal with noise, noisy environment and locations where there's a lot of environmental noise. Sometimes you can avoid noise with a little more effort and creativity. This is often accompanied by higher costs for the construction project. I think that it is only when the supplementary decision is taken that I will, in part, come back to the area of the Secretary of State for Energy, which is going to be very specific about the noise standards that are then relevant and about the technical measures that are then relevant. Now it is really about the legislative proposal, which is about the system of noise production ceilings and that noises from roads, railways and industrial sites should not be allowed to rise. For example, this agreement prevents increasing traffic from taking up an increasing share of the environmental use area at the expense of living. That's not what we want. Then there are the questions that have been asked about housing along the railways. That's exactly the same thing. The Supplementary Decision will have to ensure a better balance between rail and road standards. Here too, the urgency of the construction work is important. We need to ensure that we create sufficient opportunities and that we find a smart balance between what is possible or what you can do about it in technical terms and what cannot be done about it. I think the Secretary of State will also comment on this. Finally, I would like to answer one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u42	One moment. Mr. Ziengs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u43	It may be that the Minister is going to give another answer, or perhaps she has already given the answer, but I missed it for a moment. I said in my comments that the standard for railway noise is being adjusted from 8 dB to 6.65 dB. My input was that my group did not think that this was a good measure, because it seemed to us to be limiting in terms of housing. I do not think I have yet seen an answer to that particular question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u44	If Mr Ziengs does not have an answer at the end of the first term of both of us, I promise I will come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u45	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u46	Yes, I would like to make one more comment on the coherence of the approach. We make a separate noise production ceiling decision, while we have a coherent approach to the physical environment. That coherent approach is now one of the objectives of the Environment Act. That coherence is, of course, about the whole. It is a cohesion at local level, but not just that. It can also be a cohesion that lies at a higher level, motivated by the House of Thorbecke and the different levels of government. I do not think that contradicts each other. The Environment Act forces every administrative body to take account of each other's coherence and tasks, I would almost say. If a province sets a noise production ceiling for a provincial road, it is in conjunction with the whole system. If a province is building a new road, account must also be taken of future housing in that whole area. So I don't see any tension in that, but I see it as part of the approach. Mr. Chairman. In doing so, I think I have answered the questions about the system and some more overarching questions. I suggest Secretary of State Van Veldhoven take over from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u47	Thank you very much. That seems to me to be an excellent idea. I'd like to give her the floor, the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and Water State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have to say that the intro of Mr von Martels, who indicated the noise level at which the Members of Parliament spoke, namely between 75 dB and 85 dB, made it clear that they were even above the noise level that we consider acceptable for road works. That might be something to make us all aware for once. An equivalent level of protection, Mr Ziengs began to do so. And rightly so, because that is important. It is the general starting point of the cabinet in the Environment Act. The point is that health and environmental quality are in balance with all other activities we carry out in the Netherlands. This does not mean that every standard returns to exactly the same level, because then there would be no simplification, while that was explicitly a goal of the entire exercise with the Environmental Act. Overall, there is a level of protection comparable to that of current legislation. I explained this in more detail in my letter to the Chamber when the bill was submitted. The core of the noise regulation remains at the heart of the transition from the Environmental Act: protecting people from excessive noise levels. It is a shared responsibility of the Empire, provinces and municipalities, within frameworks established by the Empire, which are defined at AMvB level. It is then up to the local authorities to make a local assessment, within these frameworks, appropriate to the local situation. That may be a somewhat long answer to a question I have heard put by a number of Members of Parliament. They said: we think it is important that there is country-wide protection, as well as that there is room for customisation. That's actually exactly what's being done. A system is established with standard values and requirements at a hard upper limit. Within that bandwidth, which is the same everywhere, you can look at local customization. At municipal level, the balancing area on components will be increased, but at the same time there will be a clear framework of standards. In reply to Mr Ziengs, the following might be good to mention. The system of the Environment Act has new concepts and instruments. New rules are also in line with this. An example is the new environmental plan. Some of the municipal noise rules for industrial sites return to this. The instrument is therefore new, but the level of protection remains the same. It is true that familiar concepts disappear, but that is why uniform concepts are replaced in the Environment Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u49	One moment. Mr. Ziengs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u50	I would like to return to the questions I asked about standards. The Secretary of State replied that not every standard comes back in the same form, because that would not be simplification. What our group is concerned with is that there is no tightening up. So you turn a standard of 50 dB back into 50 dB. In my input I indicated that we are experiencing situations where it is 52 dB and it suddenly has to go back to 47 dB. This could mean that additional measures are needed that require investments that are much higher than if you simply have to go back to normal. In fact, that was at the heart of my speech. We all agree that we need to protect people from high noise levels.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u51	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. I think there is some discussion here that I need to explain. The rules for noise production ceilings for national roads and main railways have been adopted policy neutrally. There are parts for which this was not yet in the law, but it has already been agreed. An example of this is the roll-out of noise production ceilings to provincial roads. This is an innovation which was announced in 2011 and which was in force at the time of this cabinet. Another Rutte cabinet was responsible for this at the time. This policy is incorporated into the system and can therefore now be called policy neutral, because the decision had already been taken but it was still waiting to be incorporated into this law. There is also the specific example of the track mentioned by Mr Ziengs. This concerns an administrative agreement with the 2013 VNG. The aim was then a better balance in the standards framework of railways and national roads. In that context, this agreement was made at the time. Here too, it is actually a qualification of a policy agreement that has already been made. But I understand very well that Mr Ziengs asks: that was not in the old law, so how about that? That is how it is agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u52	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u53	Mr Smeulders asked why the noise of aviation was not included. The noise of aviation is regulated by the Aviation Act. Already at the time of the establishment of the Environmental Act, it has been concluded that maintaining these specific noise rules is more transparent and easier for users than integrating these rules into the Environmental Act. This choice applies to all environmental rules of aviation, including rules on external security, for example. Only the rules for spatial restrictions due to aviation go to the Environment Act. All other rules remain in the Aviation Act. The reason that these spatial constraints do pass is because they have such a strong relationship with the municipal environmental plans. By means of a separate amending act, those rules will then be inserted into the Quality of Living Environment Decision. Mr Smeulders asked about the level of protection. I think you all asked, perhaps from your own point of view, whether that is about equivalent. And yes, that's it. In reply to Mr Smeulders, I say that not only standards play a role in a level of protection, but also in the extent to which these standards can be applied. For example, the enforcement gap has been identified under the previous legislation. You might think there might have been more possible. But when, for example, a road manager wanted to broaden a road, he was confronted at one time with a noise load that was much higher than on paper, because there had been all kinds of increases that had not been monitored. The road manager then suddenly became responsible for solving noise problems that were actually created by others and were not maintained. By continuously monitoring, we ensure that we attribute the measures in good time to the effects that further strengthen the noise load. In this context, the Supplementary Decision confirms the existence of an equivalent protection agency. That is what we shall be discussing with the Chamber, because that supplementary decision will also come to the Chamber. Monitoring is therefore an important part of ensuring an equivalent level of protection. Mr Van Gerven asked why wind turbines are not in the Supplementary Act. The current rules of the Activity Decision are already in the Quality of Living Environment Decision, published in the Official Journal in 2018. The Supplementary Act regulates the transposition of the Noise Act, which concerns only infra and industrial sites. Wind turbines are not in this and they are not being converted now, but the wind turbines are already regulated in the Quality of Living Environment Decision. Mr Smeulders felt it was important for public health to be included in the supplementary decision. I know that in the debate on the Environment Act itself, perhaps Mr Smeulders referred to it a lot about the importance of public health. Therefore, the importance of protecting health is already explicitly regulated in the Environmental Law itself. Thus, in the balanced allocation of functions to locations and the setting of rules on them, the municipality must take account of the health importance. The legislative proposal also regulates the establishment of rules in the Quality of Living Environment Decision in view of the importance of health. So this is absolutely an aspect that has all the attention, but in other places in the system. Mr Smeulders and, I believe, Mr von Martens have also spoken about the concerns of provinces and municipalities about the level of protection. With the Supplementary Track noise we improve protection on a number of points, not at the level of the law, but at the level of the Supplementary Decision. That enforcement hole is actually the most important thing I have just explained. It has also been said, also in the discussions we have had with each other on the Swung, Swung-1 and Swung-2 Law, that we should find a solution to this accumulation of noise. That point has now been included in this law. The rules for adding sound from multiple sources are improved, because if a home is taxed by multiple sources of sound, the owner is affected by that sound and not so much by source A or source B. Then it is also important to have good rules with each other about how that accumulation of sound works. This was an explicit wish of the Chamber for the legal treatment of the noise production ceilings for the national infrastructure. With this improvement, the motion by Mr Van der Graaf and Mr Sienot is included. Mrs Van Eijs asked how citizens know that they are adequately protected from noise. I would like to say a few words about this. On the one hand, there will soon be a clear framework that all municipalities will have to comply with, but on the other hand, there will also be a room for consideration. That is the margin of discretion between the standard and the limit value. Of course, there are all kinds of rules for when to deal with them in what way. But the precise protection depends partly on the local balance. On the one hand, we guarantee that basic protection is just arranged, without pretending that it is exactly the same as in Amsterdam in Appingedam. The local situation may require other solutions. We shall come back to this point when we discuss the background to the supplementary decision. Mr von Martels asked whether the changing of a noise zone to a focus area would put us at risk of more nuisance. That's not true. Sound zones and areas of attention do not have a direct effect on protection. If that were one-on-one coupled, it could be. It is therefore right that Mr von Martels should ask that question. But those areas determine where the noise rules apply. Under the Environmental Act, the focus areas will be better aligned with the real noise load. Mr Ziegs also asked whether we could see the differences between the old noise zones and the new noise areas. I've already said something about that. The current sound zones date back to the 1980s. For busy motorways these are now too tight, because the default values are also exceeded outside that zone. The protection of health will then actually fail. With the larger sound focus areas this is corrected, because the sound focus area includes exactly the area in which the sound is higher than the default values. But that doesn't mean anything about the normalization itself. This only does the real mapping of where the noise load is, so that you can then determine what measures need to be taken. Mr. Ziengs noted that in the old situation there was no monitoring of provincial roads and waterways. He asked about the consequences of monitoring in the new situation. The monitoring means that we will have a more real picture of the noise load. By monitoring you know what the situation is, whether there is an increase and to what extent measures need to be taken. So it actually just means that we know better how the noise load is. Mr Zieng also asked why a house should be reduced to 3 dB below that standard if the standard is exceeded. This is part of the current noise production ceiling system for national roads and main railways. In fact, the short answer to this question is to avoid inefficient investments over and over again. Because if you live near a road and you get below the maximum value you have to get, then it's actually said: invest in such a way that you get a bit underneath it, so that you don't have to clean up again at any subsequent increase in traffic on that road. The aim is therefore to avoid inefficient investments in clean-up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u54	Can I do both points in one interruption?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u55	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u56	The first point was about the sound values. I need to see how I formulated that myself. I will start with the second point, which is easier. Then I'll remember the first one. Because the second point came after it, I pushed away the first point. So first about the decibel reduction from 50 dB to 47 dB. The Secretary of State states that there is only one investment to be made. But if you own a property and you're at 52 dB and you can reduce that by applying a foamboard wall of €1,000 to 50 dB, so the legal standard, or you have to go to 47 dB and make an investment of €30,000, there is a considerable difference. So converting the law, from old to new, would mean that if you bring it back to 50 dB, you'll meet the standard at that point. That was the thrust of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u57	This is already part of the current noise production ceiling system for national roads and main railways. I can say something to Mr Ziengs about the so-called impact test. The point mentioned by Mr Ziengs is not so much in the law, but in the decision that comes to the Chamber after the summer. Between today and the time when the decision comes to the Chamber, a so-called test of impact is being carried out with all the parties involved. Mr Ziengs has asked a few other questions which I will come back to later, but I think it is useful that we include these specific examples in that test, with all the parties involved in practice. I shall return to that in the letter to the Chamber. For I understand Mr Ziengs' question very well. Why do you need to invest more than what you would be legally required to do? It is good that we look together to see whether the transition to that decision still poses specific problems, whether the situation remains the same and for what reasons.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u58	Thank you for the commitment. My other point has already been raised. I did indeed talk about the standards that were set when it comes to the sound values and what happens when, for example, they are considerably lower. The specific question in my contribution was: does that also directly affect decisions? Will policy at that time be translated directly into a decision? If the value turns out to be lower after that monitoring, for example, where a speed of 70 applies, you could bring it to 90. And can that be done in the short term? That is what my question was basically about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u59	Of course, you always have to comply with a certain requirement of care before you could, for example, implement a certain speed. That also has to do with other demands. Think about the discussion on the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen. But knowing what the situation is means that you also know what space there is for certain developments. But then, of course, you still have to meet the other requirements that are important for such a project. You will then indicate where the space is or where the bottlenecks are. Measuring is knowing in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u60	Mr. Ziengs still?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u61	And then additional. As I hear the answer, this means that if it is the other way around, if the value is higher during the monitoring, then a decision can be taken rather quickly to make adjustments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u62	I do not know when it becomes clear that a limit value is being exceeded. We have a standard value, and that's what you're aiming for. You're gonna have to sit a lot above that if you're gonna exceed a limit. If you exceed a limit value, then there is a balancing ladder that comes into effect. It's not like tomorrow the door's gonna lock, but then you're gonna have to show the authority that you've been looking at where it's coming from. Then you look at which reduction measures are available and whether they are effective. If they are effective, you should simply take them; they are also effective. If they are not effective, you must at least ensure that the inner value is guaranteed, so that people can sleep in their homes quietly. This is how a cascade comes into effect. If there's such a big problem somewhere that it causes health damage, you need to see what you can do about it. That's how the system works.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u63	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u64	Mr. Chairman. A number of questions have been asked about the WHO report. How's the investigation going? The Chamber has spoken of it before. That's when we said it was an important investigation. I also think we should look at what it would mean for the Dutch situation. That is why RIVM is now investigating this question, in order to implement the Schonis motion. I promised on 7 March in the AO Environment that I would inform the Chamber about this before the end of the year. Then I will also indicate how this relates to the standard. It is an important research and we are now seriously looking at what this would mean for the Netherlands. Many of you have asked questions about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u65	That's right. An investigation is now under way. Let's say from that research that the norm in the Netherlands is actually too low. Is the Secretary of State prepared to raise that standard in line with the outcome of that investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u66	These are, of course, health standards. For other health standards, we have also indicated that we are striving to get closer and closer to such standards. That is why I will first have a translation of what this means for the Netherlands; then we will see how to translate it into the Dutch situation. It's an important report, so let's do that analysis.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u67	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u68	I can't anticipate the results if there's another investigation going on. That's always a shame. Mr Van Gerven asked why we do not follow the Danish model to set standards for low-frequency noise. He referred to the standards in Denmark. In reply to this, the Dutch standard is sometimes more flexible and sometimes stricter than the Danish standard, but the level of protection is comparable. The WHO also provides advisory values for wind turbines in Lden and not for low frequency noise. Lden is also included in the Netherlands. Mrs Van Eijs noted that there was insufficient clarity about cumulation and addition. This accumulation is indeed a complicated process. This has been discussed by the Chamber for a long time. The rules for cumulation and addition take shape in the Supplementary Decision sound, so we will come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u69	I am a little confused by the reply of the Secretary of State on Danish and Dutch standards. According to my information, there is a standard for low frequency noise in Denmark, but not in the Netherlands. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u70	I can also only say that, according to my information, the WHO provides advice values for wind turbines in Lden and not in a measure for low frequency noise. I would be happy to check whether there is also a noise standard for low-frequency sound in Denmark, but I do not have that information now. Let me see if I have a second answer for Mr Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u71	Very good. I have here a document from 2013 in which Arcadis is cited. It talks about the standard that would have been introduced in Denmark in 2012. Anyway, let's get back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u72	Perhaps Mr Van Gerven could let us know exactly what was referred to. That might make it a little easier to retrieve the information. In any case, we count on the values with which the WHO advises us to count. Mr. Chairman. Then the A50. Sound production ceilings apply along the A50. Rijkswaterstaat complies with these ceilings and takes measures if necessary. This concerns Mr Van Gerven's question on the A50. Rijkswaterstaat manages the noise production ceilings and takes measures if necessary. Mrs Van Eijs asked what activities are covered by noise ceilings for industrial sites. The Environment Act replaced the concept of "establishment" by "activity." The noise production ceilings for industry cover all activities leading to noise emissions. This does not apply to the noise of transit roads on an industrial site, because that noise is then regulated separately here. But all industrial activities that cause noise are therefore covered. At an industrial site I just indicated the combination of roads and industrial activities............................................................................................................................................................................ Therefore, the Supplementary Decision will contain instructions for the first noise production ceilings for industrial sites. That is what we are going to talk about in the veil. It is also one of the points I mentioned just now to Mr Ziengs, and I think that we should discuss the practical effects of this with the people who are affected by it in practice. Then we can see how this works out in practice and how we can ensure that it is clear to everyone and that it is handled in an equal way. That is what we are going to discuss with your Chamber, namely when the decision will be taken in the autumn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u73	I don't know if the Secretary of State's gonna come up with it, but when I read the text, it freaked me out. I can imagine that such a noise ceiling would be exceeded and that the municipality would have to intervene, for example, or would have to bring the noise back under the ceiling. Actually, I was wondering if a community could force such a thing. After all, the companies must ensure that they make less noise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u74	As soon as there is an overrun, that was just as my answer to Mr Ziegs..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Then it will be necessary to determine who is responsible for the overrun. It is precisely because we are monitoring better now that I said this in the answer to Mr Smeulders........................................................................................................................................................ So this monitoring is going to help to keep that in mind. This is exactly one of those points. An example. Suppose it gets busier on the road that runs on such an industrial site and that there is an increase in industrial noise, then you should be able to monitor which part of it comes from where to also determine what is just a fair distribution of costs, to ensure that the noise gets back below the noise production ceiling. These are exactly the practical effects that we are talking about between now and the moment the decision comes to the Chamber with all the parties in the test of practice. The decision will therefore have the effect of identifying the way in which this works. We will note that the cost allocation for Mrs Van Eijs is a question. The question is therefore whether it always reaches the municipalities or whether it can also reach the private parties if they cause it to rise above the ceiling. We will get back to that when we talk about the decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u75	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u76	Mr von Martels asked about the efficiency criterion: what about the scheme and when will it be evaluated? When drawing up the scheme under the Supplementary Decision, consultations will be held with all interested parties on the content of the efficiency criterion. That is actually the answer to some of his questions in one, because the efficiency criterion will be included in the scheme that comes under the Supplementary Decision. Then there was a question from Mr Smeulders about basic noise emissions. That is a parameter to be monitored in the sense of the Environment Act. Other examples include bathing water quality and air quality. The basic noise emission therefore monitors the increase in noise, as I just said in reply to Mrs Van Eijs. The noise map of the EU Directive will map noise in buildings that are sensitive to noise. The same data is used for both tasks, reducing the additional effort and administrative burden for monitoring the BGE. Local authorities are given the legal task of protecting residents from damage to health caused by noise from municipal roads. One of the goals of the new noise policy, Swung, is to improve protection against autonomous increase in noise or traffic growth. The five-yearly monitoring also monitors the increase in noise on municipal roads. This means, in turn, that, if a limit is exceeded, municipalities must take action. In conjunction with the noise map of the EU Directive, it becomes clear once every five years where there have been large increases in noise and where noise levels are so high that they are harmful to health. So that cascade comes into effect that I've been talking about before. Mr. Chairman. If it is correct, I have answered Members' questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u77	I'm just looking at the members and I don't see any movement, so I'm assuming that's right. This brings to an end the first term of office of the rulers. I'll see if there's still a need for a second term. That's the case. Then I give Mr Smeulders the floor. He's got four minutes, if he wants to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't think I'm gonna need those four minutes. Thank you to both directors for the answer. I have one more question and I'd like to file a motion. The question is about the more fundamental point of this law: is it or is it not deregulation? The Minister then states: "No, the rules are actually being transposed neutrally. There will only be fewer rules in the law and more rules in lower regulation. And that lower regulation comes to the Chamber through the veil, so you just have something to say about it." The question I do have is whether all the changes to these AMvBs will also come to the Chamber via the veil. Because, of course, that is the case at law. So that means here's what this is about. Suppose there's a next cabinet, which might say those rules could be a little less. If that cabinet wants to change the law, then the Chamber has something to say about it. But if that is no longer the case through the AMvBs, then it can indeed lead to a deterioration of the existing situation. That is what my group is concerned about. That's my question. Then there is the second point. That is a motion that we have. It is about noise standards and the aspect of public health in them. On the one hand, I understand that it is indicated: in other places in the Environment Act the aspect of public health is regulated, so that does not need to be explicitly. That makes sense, but on the other hand this is specifically about the part of sound. I have tabled a motion on this, but if the Minister or the Secretary of State can really give me some concrete examples of other places in the law where that aspect of noise is already so clearly taken into account that the motion is unnecessary, then I am always prepared to withdraw it. But so far, I'm not convinced of that. Hopefully we'll see that in the reaction. The motion reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the provisional Supplementary Decision lays down various noise standards;]] [[Whereas public health is not an explicit criterion for the setting of standards in the provisional Supplementary Decision noise;]] [[considers that the importance of public health should be an important criterion in setting noise standards;]] [[calls on the Government to explicitly include the importance of public health in the final Supplementary Decision,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Smeulders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35054-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u79	Mr. Chairman. I think we can do that. Then I can use the remaining time for another debate, even if I do not know if it will work; whether the President agrees. First of all, I shall read out a motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that low-frequency noise can lead to sleep arrhythmias and other health problems and that standards for this type of noise have already been established in Denmark;]] [[whereas the government is currently investigating the health effects of low-frequency noise, but the Netherlands does not yet have any standards;]] [[calls on the Government to examine Danish standards for this type of noise in the ongoing investigation into the effects of low-frequency noise and to develop a noise standard corresponding to them,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35054-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u80	When it comes to noise and wind turbines, I understand that this is regulated in a different way than the supplement law we are discussing tonight. Well, that's a little reassuring, isn't it? If we also introduce the good standards for this, I will be even happier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u81	Thank you very much. I'm gonna take a look at Mrs. Van Eijs. She doesn't want any input. Then I'll go to Mr. Von Martels. You have two minutes and 40 seconds left.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This debate was mild in tone and mild in volume. I don't think the noise standards have been exceeded tonight, so that's good to hear. I have one motion. It's about the efficiency criterion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a legal methodology is used to calculate whether the cost of a noise reduction measure, such as quieter asphalt or sound shields, outweighs the result, the so-called efficiency criterion;]] [[Whereas a review of the efficiency criterion is desirable because application of that criterion may lead to the maintenance of noise;]] [[Calls on the Government to review and reconsider the Ministerial Regulation on the effectiveness of noise measures Act on noise pollution, with a view to easing the criteria for all national roads;]] [[calls on the Government to submit to the Court a number of variants of relaxation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr von Martels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35054-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When preparing for tonight's treatment, a lot of technology, a lot of numbers and a lot of articles came to see. For a moment I thought I was losing track, but fortunately there was the transcription table, as I indicated in my contribution in first term. I have said a number of things about this to the Secretary of State and the Minister, and I have had a number of answers to that. It turned out that, after the old laws had entered into force and now we are moving towards the new law, a number of adjustments have been made. I did not see them in the transcription table or elsewhere, but I assume immediately that the Secretary of State will answer the questions in good conscience. With this input, I would like to point out that it is very important for our group that it is policy neutral, while of course maintaining that protecting people from too high a noise level is also very important for us. I'd like to leave it at that for now. I won't file any motions. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u84	Thank you very much. I'm looking at the Secretary of State and the Secretary of State to see if they can respond directly. Do you have the motions yet? I see there's a need for a short suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u85	I will give the floor to the Secretary of State for her second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u86	Mr. Chairman. In his motion, Mr Smeulders asked for the importance of public health to be explicitly included in the final Supplementary Decision. I already told you it's in the Environment Act. I would like to propose to Mr Smulders the following. Today we are talking about the law. The decision will come in the autumn. I propose that the Minister and I use that time period to indicate again in a letter how we see the passage of that provision in the law to the underlying regulation. Then perhaps Mr Smeulders can continue his motion until then.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u87	That's fine. I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u88	At the request of Mr Smeulders, I propose his motion (35054, No. 10), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u89	Then Mr Van Gerven. He spoke about the Danish standards for low-frequency noise. Denmark does indeed have a separate standard specific to low frequency noise. The Netherlands has a standard for wind turbine noise which, as with other sources, covers the whole sound spectrum, including low frequency noise. So this standard really offers a similar level of protection to the Danish standard. The WHO also does not give separate advice on low frequency noise from wind turbines. The RIVM also concluded that no separate standard for low-frequency noise from wind turbines is required on top of the normal noise standard. That is why I advise against the motion in part No. 11 by Mr Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u90	The motion in part No. 11 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u91	The breakdown in Denmark by low frequency noise leads to a lower dB standard, i.e. a sharper standard than in the Netherlands. Can the Secretary of State go into that again?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u92	For me, RIVM's advice applies. The RIVM seems to me to be the party to assessing for us whether or not such a different standard is necessary for the protection of public health. The RIVM therefore also concluded that no separate standard for low frequency noise from wind turbines is required on top of the normal noise standard. That is the advice I am holding on to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u93	That's what discussion is going on in the medical world. The material I have collected comes from, among other things, a doctor's health and the environment who states that it does have an impact. I note, however, that the standard for windmills in Denmark, I believe, is 5 dB lower than in the Netherlands. Isn't there going to be more or more research? Of course, it would be the best thing for us to be able to use the same parameters or assumptions in the medical field. At least that is not the case. Can I ask you this? Is there any further investigation going on or is this it for the time being?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u94	I wouldn't dream of claiming that no further investigation is taking place. I don't think that's a good starting point either. The investigation, including in the context of the WTO, will certainly continue. Perhaps Mr Van Gerven can bring the doctor who has these insights into contact with RIVM, because for me RIVM is, of course, the anchor at these times that I use the advice of. But if there are new insights; it is always important to continue to challenge science. Perhaps this doctor can share his insights with the RIVM to see if that leads to further insights. Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 12 on the efficiency criterion. This is also part of the RIVM study following the WHO opinion. I would therefore ask Mr von Martels to hold on to his motion and not to anticipate it now. Moreover, there are also considerable financial consequences for making an efficiency criterion more flexible. This can also have consequences in the context of the MIRT, for example, because there are different costs involved in all kinds of places at once. If we cannot base it clearly on a WHO opinion and its translation into the Netherlands, then it would be difficult, I think, to properly argue why we are letting it go. Request to hold.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u95	The request to hold. Mr. Von Martels?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u96	I would be happy to continue the motion, but I would like to have some insight into when that investigation will come to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u97	End 2019.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u98	At the request of Mr von Martels, I propose his motion (35054, No. 12), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 40/94 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u99	Then I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u100	And I can be very brief, Mr President, because only a question has been asked by Mr Smeulders. I can reassure him: if there are changes, the same procedure applies. They go in front of the Chamber and that is regulated by the Environment Act. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-27-tweedekamer-16.u101	Thank you very much. That brings us to the end of the discussion of this bill. The legislative proposal and the motions that have been tabled will be put to the vote next Tuesday, unless they are held. I would like to thank the two heads of government, the members and our praiseless support, in all shapes and sizes, and the officials. Finally, I would like to thank the people in the public gallery and the people who have followed this debate elsewhere. I wish you a nice evening, because I think it already is. Enjoy it for a while. I'm closing the meeting.
