ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u1	I call Mr Van Nispen on behalf of the SP for his questions on the survey of social lawyers. I would like to welcome the Minister for Legal Protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u2	Access to justice is very fundamental. We have a lot of laws and regulations, but if you're dealing with a divorce, a labor dispute, a rental dispute or a case against the government, then you have to be able to rely on those laws and rules. It sometimes takes good, expert legal aid very much. Social attorneys are very much needed. That is why I did research, because we know that the social lawyer is under a lot of pressure. There have been 1,200 social lawyers responding and the results are not lying. Nearly 70% of lawyers are considering quitting. This is going to cause a very serious problem for those who seek justice. 94% of lawyers fear further division. The Minister's plans are only making this worse. "Classic justice in the Netherlands," says more than half. And a lot of people also say: not yet, but with the Minister's plans there will be, class justice in the Netherlands. And then the minister himself. He listens incredibly badly to the signals from the lawyers, says 98%. The Minister gets an average 2.8 as a report figure. Of 95% of the people, this minister gets an incompetence. Mr. Chairman. This is incredibly fundamental. This is about the core of the rule of law. This is about trust in the rule of law. This is about the question: can I still get my rights if there's something wrong with me? So what now, Secretary of Law? How's our legal protection going? What's the Minister gonna do now? What's he gonna do to prevent so many social lawyers from stopping and so many people from getting their rights back? I expressly do not ask what the Minister will do in the year 2024, because we know what is in his plans for the reform of the system of legal aid, but that does not answer the question of how to prevent the social lawyer from losing out. How do we stop people from getting their rights? Because if people can't live up to their rights, injustice will continue to exist.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u3	Then I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u4	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Nispen and I fully agree that good legal aid is crucial in a rule of law. That is precisely the reason why the Dutch state spends a lot of money on this every year: 400 million. Per capita, we are in the European summit with this. It is twice as much as in Belgium and three times as in Germany. This is without prejudice to the fact that there are problems. Information is still fragmented. I also mention the cooperation between the first and the second lines. We sometimes see that problems need to be approached not only legally, but also in a different way. It needs to be flown much more integrally. We also see that the fees and fees for lawyers are under pressure. I think we've all recognised that. Mr. Chairman. I was sent on a very clear mission. Maybe that's not an order that makes you very popular immediately, but it is a very clear assignment, namely to see if we can do better with the money we have available for legal aid in the Netherlands. I see room for that. I see that we can do more at the front, that we can provide better information, more accessible, online, but also in neighbourhoods. If we manage to reduce the number of cases slightly, this reduction and smarter organisation may also create some room to increase the rates for lawyers. First calculations show that there's about 10% to 20% space in there. Following the letter sent to me by the NOva, the lawyer, last week, I would like to return to the table. It's scheduled for this week.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u5	Mr. Van Nispen?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u6	Mr President, I thought I would wait a moment, because perhaps I will get an answer to my question. I asked one question: what is the Minister going to do now to prevent so many social lawyers from stopping this important work? They are passionate idealists who help people with social and legal problems, with labour disputes, with rental disputes. They help people who are dealing with divorce or who have a case against the government, for as much as 60%. But the minister's not gonna come up with anything. He comes up with exactly those plans that we have known for a long time and which hopefully, possibly, we all don't know that in 2024 will lead to a reasonable remuneration for the social lawyer. Not a word from this Minister about the investigation that we presented last Friday. And that is perhaps the biggest problem: it simply demonstrates this minister's disinterest on this important subject. We've had a Secretary of Law for two years. What has he done in the last two years with the report that was on his desk from that time on, namely the Van der Meer Committee's report, which said at that time: "There must be acute money in the social attorney's office, because this is no longer possible. There are 20 years of overdue maintenance and if we continue like this, a lot of people will not be able to live up to their rights."? Is class justice conscious policy of this minister or an unintended consequence?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u7	Mr van Nispen and I also have the impression that he stopped reading the Van der Meer report in Chapter 1. If he had read further, he would have seen that there are a number of scenarios in which it is also indicated what you could do...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u8	Mr. Chairman. The Minister might be able to answer the questions I asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u9	...to do it with the current resources. We have had a wide-ranging debate in committee, with your Chamber, about whether it might be better to look at a different way of organizing, a different way of doing things. There's a lot of that in the docks. That's what we're doing right now, testing, strengthening that first line and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u10	Mr. Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u11	Minister has again not studied the subject at all. This was also the case in the debate in January this year, where colleagues from the Labour Party and GroenLinks forced to submit the plans to the Council of State. I don't think that has happened at all. The Minister could also say something about this today. The Minister has again not deepened himself at all and is not really concerned about the emptiness that is now threatening in the legal profession. The lawyers themselves say: it's not that bad for us because we can do something else, but it's bad for the clients, for the people who deal with big problems where they don't come out themselves. The Minister is acting as an accountant here. He talks in the first sentence about money and the existing budget, but it is about the recognition of law as a value in our society. That's what this is about, and I don't hear the Minister. In fact, I do not think that this Minister deserves the title 'Minister for Legal Protection' at all. Then he'll have to give that wallet, that part, but to someone else, someone who can worry about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u12	I haven't heard a question, except the question of the question I would ask at the Council of State. In my view, I will do exactly what I have agreed to do with your Chamber, namely to send an implementation plan to your Chamber first. I did it just before the summer. As a result, I have also had discussions with the Council of State to see what we can do between now and 2023 or 2024, when a legislative process is foreseen, to present parts of it by means of information. That conversation's just going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u13	There was another question, about how to proceed with the clients of the lawyers who quit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u14	There too, we should take a look at the facts. I take the signals extremely seriously. I'm also aware that if you look at lawyers' fees, you can see that they're left behind and that something has to be done about them. That is what this plan is for, and what we are doing now is for, to bring it slowly but surely in the right direction. Let's see how many lawyers are registered. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Dat zijn er zo'n 7.000.]] Last year we had a slight drop of about 200. There were 700 lawyers who signed out and another 500 came in. That's not disproportionate to the slight drop in cases you see. So am I worried in the long run? Yes, and that's exactly why I'm working now. Is the problem at the moment very acute, in the sense that there are too few lawyers to do this job? I don't see that right away, but I'd like to go with the lawyer to the table to see what we can do to keep pace and offer solutions as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u15	Finally, one sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u16	Mr. Chairman. There's a threat of action. There's a threat of strikes. This minister could get ready for a whole hot fall. This minister should prevent class justice and stand up for the rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u17	Thank you. Then I will go to Mr Van Dam on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u18	As is well known, my group supports the plans put forward by the Minister, but last summer I also went to work. May I give you one example? Last week, I spoke to a young woman who really wants to be a social attorney. She can't find an office because people either quit or don't have time to guide her. And she can't even pay for the training, which costs €17,000, because she still has a student debt. Can the Minister state what he can offer such a person, a passionate person, in the short term to join as a social attorney?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u19	That's one of the things I'd like to sit down with the lawyer at the table in the very short term, because we have some extra money available. That was new in the letter I sent you just before the summer to make some improvements to the system. So that is not money that must necessarily remain in the system for the regular things, but that is precisely to deal with a number of acute problems immediately. I do not see that there is already a very significant reduction in the number of lawyers in the system, but we do see the risk of an ageing population and the lack of rejuvenation on the front. If that has to do with, for example, the pressure on offices, which means that there is not enough room to train people, then that is a serious point I would like to take up and which we might have some extra money for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u20	In my view, we are dealing above all with a minister who is not handy and who is not spending the EUR 400 million available, which the Minister says is being spent on social law. Let me give two examples, and I would like the Minister's response to that. If a couple wishes to divorce, then that common request for divorce must now be registered through a lawyer. That costs about €1,000 in social attorneys. That money is not necessary at all, because it is a common request and then it shifts. But even more important, of course, is the answer to the question of how much of that 400 million goes to the asylum lawyers. That's a whole industry. By the way, it is all SP lawyers who maintain that industry. How much of that $400 million goes to the asylum lawyers? And isn't the Minister aware of the fact that a status holder who wants to sue under the law doesn't need a lawyer at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u21	I do not want to interfere with legal aid for people who are entitled to it and who sometimes need it. We have said about refugees and asylum seekers: look critically at the first application whether it is really necessary or whether it can go a little further in the process. We must do this wisely. What I do not want is to interfere as a minister in specific areas or in specific matters, because I believe that access to justice, especially wherever the government is party, should be determined independently. That is why we have the Legal Assistance Council, which is looking at whether or not someone is eligible for legal aid.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u22	Then I will go to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u23	I've talked to some lawyers in my life, but I haven't met a SP lawyer yet. They don't sell that stuff. We have been discussing this issue in the Committee on Justice and Security for a year or two now. I sincerely wonder when the time will come when this minister will say: now I will act. We had thought that this would be after the publication of the report of the Van der Meer Committee, which clearly described a number of problems. You could start with that shortage of money. That's 120 million. The minister actually says: I still don't see any real problems, the decrease in the number of lawyers is within the margin. But the Dutch order of lawyers screams murder and fire. We see that the social lawyer indicates that people really don't choose this profession anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u24	And what is your question, Mr. Azarkan?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u25	So at what point is this minister not going to do something in 2028?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u26	We've already started, long ago. Last year, I had a wide-ranging debate with your committee, and I do not know if you were present, but I think it is a question of what we are going to do. That was a huge discussion, and not everyone agreed. At least the SP didn't agree with it, and maybe your party didn't agree with it either. When a broad majority said 'let's take these steps', we immediately started. It's work in progress.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u27	Then I will go to Mr Grothuizen on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u28	I think that several Members have sufficiently explained the urgency of the problem. Just, I kind of miss that sense of urgency with the Minister. For, as far as I am concerned, he singles out one part of the agreement, namely that it has to be within the budgetary framework. But I do not hear him say that we have also agreed that we should do something about these fees. That's what he's moving on to the future. The minister recently managed to solve an acute problem with juvenile cocks. I would like to ask him: what does he take to that table when he goes to see the lawyers this week how this problem can be solved?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u29	When it comes to the space that needs to be provided for better rates: they are communicating vessels. If we manage to organize it better and smarter by looking at what really needs to be done by a lawyer and what may be done by others, if we manage to bring down the number of cases a little further......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... by We are talking about an increase of 10% or 20%. That may not be quite at the level of Van der Meer's first scenario, but it is an important step in the right direction. It has not been settled from today to tomorrow; we also had that discussion last year. It's gonna take time. We are very hard at testing in different places. If that turns out to work, we can scale it up. If we succeed, I'm thinking between now and 2024, that timeline.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u30	It is good to hear that the Netherlands is still in the European summit when it comes to legal aid expenditure. This is important in terms of access to justice. I would like to try to go further with the Minister in that context. The number of social attorneys doesn't say that much in themselves. It's about the number in relation to the number of additions. The Minister points out that in procedures where an addition is needed, the government is very often the opposite party and the endlessly pervasive party. I would therefore like to ask the Minister very clearly whether he can inform the Chamber about which government organisations I am thinking of, for example, a top ten............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Because I think we should also address them on their responsibilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u31	A very important part of this is that we should have just shown a little debate with the government of Greater Houses. Of course, sometimes you have a case or there is an appeal and objection and as a government we feel that we are really in our right. If you go through that, there's only one way to do it: you end up with a judge. But sometimes it is done unnecessarily and the government also loses business. Then you might ask yourself, should it have been this way? I think we should be more critical of that. This is one of the key pillars of the approach. You're asking me to make a top ten out of the culprits. I'm more than willing to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u32	We have had a debate in which everything has actually changed, namely that access is under pressure and that the fees are a problem. We've been talking about that for years, but it's not going to be resolved. We have exchanged the view that government organisations themselves are a problem, but we have not yet achieved any tangible results. One of the important things was that Mr Van Nispen already referred to it; by the way, compliments for the investigation that we felt the Council of State should be watching. That is the guardian of our rule of law and also the guardian of access to justice. Now I hear the Minister say: in 2024, we'll see how the Council of State judges what we're doing. Why hasn't the Council of State already been asked to take a very concrete look at everything you're doing, also because it's about a privatisation process? That's what I expected.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u33	A specific question and a concrete answer, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u34	The latter is really not a privatisation process. Where attempts to reform legal aid have been stranded in the past, they have started a major legislative process. That ended up stranded in the First Chamber. We have said: let's do it the other way round, so let's see what works and lay it down in laws and regulations. That's why it's on the roll for 2023/2024. I have promised Mrs Kuik not to wait until the time when we can submit a very detailed legislative proposal to the Council of State, but to present now elements, such as dilemmas or exciting points that we already foresee and which could perhaps come back to legislation. The order is: first the implementation plan that you received in June/July and then the discussion with the Council of State. As we speak, at the moment, there are discussions with the Council of State on what the elements might be. I expect to be more clear about this in the next six months.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u35	Then the Chamber gets information about that, I take it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u36	Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-4.u37	Thank you.
