ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-23.u1	The next item is the debate on the civil society general consultation report, which took place on 7 November. Welcome to the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. We'll start with the term from the side of the Chamber. First of all, Mrs Diks from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-23.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last week, during the AO Reinforcement of civil society, there was some confusion as to how the subsidy framework should be read. That's when some people in that room came up with a way to try and make it a little sharper in a motion. One of the cases, for example, was the difference between control and ownership. That is what I mentioned in my motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the new policy framework for strengthening the social centre field involves EUR 1.4 billion for five years and that a clearly formulated subsidy framework is necessary for this purpose;]] [[Considering that civil society plays a crucial role in achieving the SDGs in its autonomous role as an advocate and influencer;]] [[Considering that the space for civil society is shrinking globally and that NGOs in countries outside the focus regions, for example in Latin America, have achieved serious results, but that the ownership of programmes is often not sufficiently secured;]] [[calls on the government to set up the funding frameworks that focus on "pleasure and influence" in such a way that civil society organisations retain sufficient autonomy in terms of content, but strive within their programmes for ownership of local civil society organisations, and to take this into account in the assessment;]] [[calls on the Government to co-evaluate the proposals of civil society organisations on policy coherence, with a positive assessment of the establishment of convincing links between different focus themes;]] [[calls on the Government to encourage, after selection of partnerships with embassies, where possible, to ensure that country strategies are not linked and that there is room for contradiction with policy coherence as a starting point,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Diks. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34952-88]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-23.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-23.u4	Thank you, too. Mr Alkaya has the floor on behalf of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-23.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have had a good AO, in which one has been clarified. The Minister also indicated that the framework we are talking about today is not as rigid as it seems and more flexible, and that civil society organisations are also challenged to submit their proposals within these frameworks. I have two further motions; I shall confine myself to reading out those two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting the growing pressure on civil society worldwide;]] [[Whereas civil society organisations are not only intimidated and hampered by states but also by other actors such as commercial institutions, radical and paramilitary groups;]] [[calls on the Government to promote protection against violence by civil society, including through diplomatic contacts with countries where this is at stake,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considers that the new Policy Framework for Strengthening the Social Centre Field should lead the quality and impact of the selection of future partnerships with civil society organisations;]] [[considers that geographical focus does not necessarily coincide with where civil society can be most effectively helped;]] [[calls on the government to make the local needs and potential impact outweigh the degree to which it fits the geographical focus when assessing the quality of proposals,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Alkaya. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34952-89]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Alkaya and Mr Van den Hul. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34952-90]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-23.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I told you, this form of collusion and contradiction is unique in the world. It is also crucial that people can continue to work for human rights, which is under pressure worldwide. It's a good thing we're on this. The CDA shares the focus on the focus regions mentioned in the letter. In addition, the Minister has left enough room for us to continue successful programmes outside. As far as the themes are concerned, the CDA is for flexibility. It is not about more themes but about the possibility of combining subjects. Subjects can, of course, touch each other. I would like to stress once again that I think it is important that people with disabilities and social inclusion in a broad sense should not be excluded from the themes. In the AO it turned out that the themes were not as sharply defined as the letter suggested. For the record, I am tabling a motion on this subject, together with my colleague, Mr Voordewind of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-23.u7	Thank you. Mr Bouali of D66 has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-23.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last week, we had a good and substantive debate on the definition of the Policy Framework for Strengthening Social Centre Field. As far as D66 is concerned, there are two important points which have been confirmed by the Minister in that debate and which I would like to repeat here. Within the themes, at least there remains room for the own interpretation by NGOs. My party is in favour of this minister's focus in this policy framework, but it is also good to see that good projects can still be maintained outside focus regions and focus countries. As far as D66 is concerned, the funds must be used effectively and the quality and programmes must be guiding. That is why I support the motion that my colleague, Mr Voordewind of the Christian Union, is about to table. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to mention something. When I visit the organisations, I am always very impressed by the important work they do, but I always notice something. When it comes to diversity within these organisations themselves, there is still a world to be won. That is remarkable, because it is also often these organisations that should convey this message internationally. I would therefore like to call on the cabinet to be keen on this in the future. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-23.u9	Thank you, too. Mr Voordewind has the floor on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-23.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have indeed had a good debate. The Minister explained her letter of 4 November and gave her another interpretation of it. In order to get that interpretation on paper now, we have jointly formulated the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas civil society organisations also have an important role to play internationally in promoting democratic pluralism and open societies;]] [[Considers that monitoring and evaluation make the quality of efforts visible, noticeable and measurable and that this is of great importance in order to achieve maximum impact together;]] [[Considering that an action plan was drawn up in 2016 to promote more systematic coherence between the different policies affecting development and that the "Investing in Perspective' note decided to continue this policy;]] [[Considers that, from the point of view of the autonomy of civil society organisations and for achieving impact, there is scope within the themes presented under Power of Voices Partnerships to complement them from their own point of view and analysis and with a view to ensuring coherence, with the possibility of connecting from the main themes between themes;]] [[Calls on the Government to allow this space within Power of Voices Partnerships;]] [[calls on the government to ensure that the quality and expected impact of proposals are guiding, while limiting selection beyond the focus regions and countries, within the Policy Framework for Strengthening the Social Centre Field,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voordewind, Mr Bouali, Mr Kuik, Mr Van den Hul and Mr Diks.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34952-91]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-23.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Civil society organisations may be the canaries in the global coal mine. I shall therefore table the following three motions for resolutions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands benefits from a level playing field in both its aid and trade policies to promote fair trade, including the fight against corruption and tax avoidance;]] [[Considering that civil society organisations play a key role both in the business community and in the public sector;]] [[calls on the Government to make clear how civil society organisations active in promoting fair commercial practices, including the fight against corruption and tax avoidance, have access to the Power of Voices programme,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Hul, Mr Alkaya, Mr Bouali and Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34952-92]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-23.u12	The next motion will be tabled in my capacity as adoptive mother of SDG 5. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting the importance of promoting women's rights and gender equality throughout the world, and the Netherlands has a leading role in this;]] [[noting that "Investing in Perspective" identifies gender equality and empowerment of women and girls (SDG 5) as a cross-cutting objective;]] [[calls on the Government not to geographically limit the commitment to women's rights and gender equality in the definition of the new Policy Framework for Strengthening the Social Centre Field,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Hul. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34952-93]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-23.u13	Then my third and final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that relatively small women's organisations, including diaspora organisations, play a unique bridge role in promoting access for local women's movements in international fora and funds;]] [[noting that such small organisations are dependent on available budgets, which are not adequately foreseen within the current policy changes;]] [[calls on the government, within the SDG 5 Funds Power of Women and Women, Peace and Security, to create an opportunity for organisations to submit grant applications of up to €250,000 and thus also to grant relatively small women's organisations direct access to funding,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Hul. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34952-94]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-23.u14	Mr. Chairman. Finally, one question for clarification. There are concerns about the progress of the National Action Plan 1325 and in particular about what the new policy framework means for the future of this Action Plan. Does the Minister share that this action plan has a unique character because of its different stakeholders, that it is unique in its kind and that it should therefore be preserved?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-23.u15	Thank you. That means that we are at the end of the term of office. I'm suspending the meeting for five minutes. Then the Minister gives the verdicts on the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-23.u16	We are in the process of discussing the general consultation report on civil society. The Minister for Foreign Trade and Development has the floor. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-23.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to Members of Parliament for the very good discussion and dialogue we had on the important role of civil society and the implementation to which we wish to contribute through the Netherlands and foreign trade, international cooperation and development cooperation policies. For the record, I would like to repeat a few important points in this context before briefly giving the opinion of the cabinet on the seven motions for resolutions tabled. One. The Netherlands will of course continue to support that clarity in its independent role as a advocate and influencer. This framework is also specifically intended for this purpose. Here's the space, so the civic space, which organizations have to do their job, more important than ever. That's also indicated. Internationally we see how that space is reduced and how it shrinks and is under a lot of pressure. It is important for us that organisations can fulfil this role. With the SDG 5 Fund, we have one of the largest funds in the world to focus on women's rights and gender equality. This will implement this important issue, also in line with the policy agenda. It is a widely shared priority in this Chamber. We are more ambitious, but we are also constantly systematically working on achieving women's rights and gender equality across the entire foreign trade and OS policy. We also explicitly emphasise this came back to the debate on southern control, ownership and leadership of local civil society organisations. One of the objectives is that the voice of the South, expressed and guided by the South, can be explicitly addressed. Based on their knowledge, built locally or nationally, with respect for diversity, and of course local relevance and expertise, these organisations can contribute to combating inequality and the pursuit of a sustainable and inclusive society. This is also a contribution to stability and security. We like to enter into partnerships with civil society organisations, but we need to implement what a strategic partnership means. In it, there is the government's right to give direction in terms of themes and geographical commitment. An important lesson from the many evaluations............................................................................................................................................................... That's been the case since 2014. This is, of course, also one of the important administrative considerations that cannot be changed in view of how, in a smart, strategic and forward-looking way, what is a partnership in the 21st century can be properly implemented. This is based on what the IOB says in a number of evaluations, but also on a study by OECD, DAC and the European Commission. Numerous evaluations have informed us. That is why we have decided to prevent fragmentation and to tackle it seriously. It would not be responsible for ignoring that, not even towards the taxpayer. We are taking this into account in the design of the new policy framework to have more impact at country level, because that is a shared goal. The increased commitment in the focus regions is of course important, but there is always the possibility to focus on other low, middle and high income countries. We have discussed this in detail with this Chamber. That is precisely why it has been decided to make the themes of Power of Voices consistent with the priorities of the government's policy paper. It is also important for the Ministry itself, the diplomats, the posts, our broad presence, to be able to play a complementary role in complementing and implementing the partnership and to provide support. This is also the result of the IOB evaluation. As has already been mentioned by a number of members, the themes have been broadly formulated. SDGs are also widely formulated. It is not a narrow framework, but a broad framework. There is room for one's own approach, but from a coherent perspective, as of course the SDGs are also broadly formulated, with a lot of space. I look forward to the proposals of high quality, with courage, creativity and innovation. The invitation is therefore for the partners to respond. Then the seven motions. The first motion, in part No. 88, that's Mrs. Diks'. It's very broad. It's about focus and impact. It is irresponsible, as I just said, not to pick up the glove right there. I have also mentioned where the themes were formulated from the point of view of the framework: to argue and influence, precisely for the strengthening of civil society organisations, and not only from the four main objectives of the note. Within each theme, coherence is expected to play a role in any case. Every responsible OS organization knows that this is some kind of 101 debate. Furthermore, we cannot limit the geographical commitment to the focus regions. We didn't. There is a priority, but it is also possible to use other countries, as I have just mentioned. We attach importance to the autonomous role of the organisations, but there is scope for contradiction, even when submitting them and when looking at the quality. The greater voice of the South remains very important. There are new accents and we hope to see them reflected in the proposals. As the motion has been drafted, there are a number of proposals in this context which are in contradiction with what is going on in the cabinet. I explained this, named and explained it in letters and in the AO and again here. On that basis, I advise against this motion. Then the motion to part No. 89, by Mr Alkaya. I regard it as one of the core tasks of the postal network. I am sure that my colleague, Mr Blok, also discussed this during the debate on his budget, certainly all the sensitive issues of human rights. Civil society organisations are incredibly important for their voices in engaging. We are also doing this at EU level, in the Universal Periodic Reviews of the UN Human Rights Council. There are specific budgets, especially for civil society, such as the decentralised Human Rights Fund and the Accountability Fund. We train our own staff, but we also provide courses on human rights, in which we address the security of civil society. Of course, there are also human rights defenders who can participate in the Shelter City programme. I see this motion as a policy support and leave her judgment Chamber. Then there's a motion to part No. 90, by Mr Alkaya and Mr Van den Hul. We agree that everyone stands for quality. I'd say, "Who's against quality?" But of course, we always look at quality first. All proposals must comply with this. Furthermore, in line with motions previously adopted in this Chamber, more attention is being paid to focus regions. It'll be taken into account. Since this motion actually equates geographical focus to a quality commitment or assessment, I advise against the motion. The motion in part No. 91 by Mrs Diks, Mr Bouali, Mr Voordewind and Mrs Van den Hul. It is an important reflection, in which it is stated and reconfirmed what I explained in the AA. I am glad to see that there is talk of systematic coherence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-23.u18	The motion was tabled by Mr Voordewind. The others stood as co-signators under the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-23.u19	I apologise to Mr Voordewind. I had a handwritten note and confused the order itself. Excuse Mr Voordewind. We will no longer name Voordewind, as was the case in the AO, but Mr Voordewind's motion, tabled by Mr Bouali, Mrs Kuik, Mrs Van den Hul and Mrs Diks. I think this motion is a fine reflection of the debate. Quality, systematic, coherence, and, of course, the importance of bringing different policies back in a logical way, precisely within the broad direction of the themes. I would like to mention once again that both the autonomy of the organisations is important, and their courage to see how they want to implement them, how they can be relevant and how they can cooperate with other organisations. Coherence in themes is not only important in terms of content, but also in terms of cooperation. Of course, efficiency can also be gained. As I said, this motion is a fine reflection of the debate. I am really looking forward to the creativity and innovative proposals of the organisations. I therefore see this motion as a support for policy and as a fine reflection of our discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-23.u20	And you're giving her judgment room?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-23.u21	I'm giving her judgment room. Then the motion to part No. 92 by Mrs van den Hul, tabled by Mr Alkaya, Mr Bouali and Mr Voordewind. The design of the new framework to be published is an open question. As we said, it is up to the organisations themselves to choose what they want to submit, how they want to do it and, of course, to convince us why something is important. We are not going to say in advance what their analysis should be and how to shape cooperation with southern organisations. That is why I cannot say in advance how the Power of Voices programme will contribute to the issue of fair commercial practices, but there is room for that. In order to emphasise the importance of coherence between trade and development cooperation, I will rename the theme of sustainability of value chains into trade and sustainability of value chains. I do this to make it clear that in the wide talk about trade, several themes will return, if you use the SDG agenda. These are issues such as sustainability of trade chains, fair trade and, of course, the issue of combating unfair tax practices, or let's say tax evasion and corruption, also important under SDG 16, rule of law, for example. I would like to repeat that. If the Chamber agrees to this amendment, I consider this motion to be a policy of support. So the heading Fair commercial practices becomes Trade and sustainability value chains. I think there is enough room for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-23.u22	I see nodding, but does the motion need to be changed textually? Or is this an interpretation of the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-23.u23	It's a promise. It is the confirmation of the renaming of a title. Hopefully this will lead to clarification, so that organisations are sure that the fight against unfair tax practices, etc., is included and that their submission can be assessed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-23.u24	There is therefore no need to change the substance of the motion. With this explanation from the Minister, she gets judgment Chamber. Please continue with the motion in part No. 93.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-23.u25	Then the motion to part No. 93. I'm almost there, Mr. Chairman. That is Mrs van den Hul's motion. There is a lot of space within Power of Voices partnerships. We have looked into how we can focus on women's rights and gender equality. I repeat that we are actually setting up one of the largest women's funds and gender equality funds in the world, with existing resources. So there is already an accent and there is already prioritization. The focus regions remain important, but commitment to low-income countries, middle-income countries and middle-income countries is not excluded. By creating a geographical focus, it is opposed that we are becoming too diffuse, that we cannot measure the result and that Dutch tax money produces little or non-measurable impact. The Leading from the South programme continues to focus on all countries. So there's a lot of space. Of course, we also support a number of other organisations, such as UNICEF and UN Women, which are also doing a great deal of work on gender equality. I don't see any need for change. On that basis, I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-23.u26	Mrs. Van den Hul, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-23.u27	I'll be very brief, Mr. Chairman. Our concern is that in a number of countries outside the geographical focus, organisations are indeed active that are not supported through bilateral or multilateral links such as UNICEF or other UN organisations. That may be the case if, for example, they are critical of their regime. I am thinking of countries in South and Central America. It is precisely for these organisations that we are trying to make a move in this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-23.u28	I understand that, but we've talked about it in detail. There are a lot of funds that these kinds of organisations can still claim. This fund is specifically focused on influence and advocacy. There are many other funds where this type of organisation can also find a means of financing. So I think it's covered enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-23.u29	Thank you. The Minister continued her speech with an opinion on the motion in part No. 94.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-23.u30	Then the motion to part No. 94 by Mrs van den Hul, who is also somewhat within the context of her comment. Considering that such small organisations depend on affordable budgets, the government is invited to create within the SDG 5 funds Power of Women and Women, Peace and Security an opportunity for organisations to submit grant applications of up to €250,000 and thus also to grant relatively small women's organisations direct access to funding. As I said before, there are many possibilities. There are also possibilities within the SDG 5 Fund. It is up to the organisations, small and large, to make that assessment themselves. We're not gonna take care of that in advance. There is also a danger, because if you build in ceilings, it seems as if different organisations themselves are going to presort on the budget rather than on the activities they are going to submit. There are regional women's funds under the Leading from the South programme, which specifically supports small and medium-sized local women's rights organisations. We can't do that and-and-and-and-and-anywhere, for everyone, at all times. There is also the Accountability Fund, especially for smaller, local women's organisations, which is supported by our embassy. On that basis, I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-23.u31	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. In this motion I am referring not only to small local women's organisations in the south, but also to diaspora organisations that may be active in the north. They too have an important bridge function, particularly in international fora. What are the possibilities for these organisations? It is sometimes also about smaller budgets than now the framework is. What can the Minister do for these small diaspora organizations?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-23.u32	A diaspora organization often has a very unique role. That's true. They have both knowledge of and presence in OECD countries, for example, and can contribute to the reconstruction or development of the country of origin, if it is not their own, than their parents. But they can choose themes. Among the themes we do not say that there is a budget for diaspora organisations. They can simply compete within the themes, participate, and be selected by quality. They're not excluded at all. Anything that is not mentioned is not excluded. But we are not going to create another 50 counters for each specific sub-theme or organisation. For example, we do not have a source of funding for Christian organisations or otherwise. This concerns themes, implementation, cooperation and working in alliances. An evaluation has been carried out on precisely the work through the line of diaspora organisations. There will be a separate letter about that. I reported that in the AO, too. Then one final confirmation from my side. There will of course be a new plan, a national action plan under UN-VR Resolution 1325: women, peace and security. It shall be drawn up in consultation with relevant ministries and organisations for the period 2021-2025. We cannot have SDG5 and lead SDG 16 if we do not implement this resolution at national level.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-23.u33	Finally, Mr Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-23.u34	I do not have the illusion that the opinion on the motion will change, but I think it is important for the report. The explanation given by the Minister to her opinion cannot be the reason on the basis of which she advises the motion. She says that I would agree with this motion on the quality of the proposals and the geographical focus, as if I were making them equally important. But I'm doing the exact opposite. I say in the motion that the quality must outweigh the geographical focus. If the Minister really means what she says, then the motion should be given the Chamber's verdict. If she doesn't, she'll only reinforce my suspicions. I'll keep an eye on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-23.u35	The Minister, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-23.u36	I can't find the motion right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-23.u37	It's the motion in part No. 90.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-23.u38	I know, but I don't have everything geographically anymore, but on timeline. If you'll give me a second, I'll look for the motion in part no. Mr Alkaya (S). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Alkaya on his excellent report. In processing, I mixed the papers with each other. If you could give me a copy of this motion, Mr President, I would save you and the Chamber time. Let's see. I understand. It's interesting. I am grateful to Mr Alkaya for his return to the interrupting microphone. I understand that his wording confirms that quality is a guiding principle, at least as far as I am concerned, but that geographical focus in the note and in the themes should not be at the expense of good qualitative proposals which happen to be outside. We have already said that, on the basis of the government's BuHa-OS note and on the basis of chamber motions, there is any expectation or obligation to shift to geography. That builds coherence, and that gives room for impact. But there is also room outside, so I advise against this motion, because it would again restrict the framework and direction that the cabinet wants to give. In the end, I think you will see many good proposals in reality that will fall outside the geographical focus of the BuHa-OS note, but then the quality and relevance must be very good. Then organisations will have to prove why they are sitting there, for example because no one else is doing it, or because the situation has changed dramatically. I think this is a constant conversation. I think we are right to devote a great deal of time to discussing the framework, but it is also very important for the organisations that the framework is published and that they can get started. I think that we can look back together on very fine proposals that are in progress, but I am not changing my opinion, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-23.u39	Thank you for your input, thanks also to the Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-23.u40	We are going to vote next Tuesday on the motions that have been tabled. I'm suspending the meeting until 7:15 p.m. before dinner break.
