ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u1	The next item is the debate on the tax liability of multinationals. A warm word of welcome, still in fact, to the Secretary of State. We have ten participants on the side of the Chamber. The first is Mr Nijboer, who is also the applicant for this debate. He has four minutes of speaking time, like everyone else. We end this term of office with a maiden speech that is not a maiden speech, but we'll tell you more about it later. This is a cliffhanger. I call Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u2	I look forward to that, Mr President! Zero euro income tax on activities in the Netherlands. That's what Shell pays for taxes. The same goes for Philips, by the way. And AkzoNobel and Unilever pay zero or almost nothing. Mr. Chairman. These are multinationals that benefit from our good facilities in the Netherlands. Of the well-educated population, of infrastructure, of beautiful towns or villages in which people can live. And that has to be paid for. It is therefore unjust and untenable that this should remain so. That has to change. Hence today's debate. I ask the Secretary of State: does he agree with the PvdA that this can no longer continue? That multinational companies in the Netherlands simply have to pay tax on profits? And what's he gonna do about it? Mr. Chairman. With the SP and GroenLinks we have submitted a bill on the liquidation account. That arrangement will be adjusted if it's up to us. VNO immediately had his word already finished. It was murder and fire, the whole SME was about to leave the Netherlands. The question was raised whether we are in favour of an open or closed economy, whether we are internationally or nationally oriented as Chambers. How we even managed to start this discussion. I ask the Secretary of State for an opinion on this too. Because we all know that VNO is the most powerful lobby club in the Netherlands and has a major influence on tax legislation in particular. I understand that companies have their lobbies, but I do think that their attitude in the social debate should also determine the position of finance. So is the Secretary of State also prepared to provide an organisation that makes such unreasonable arguments, because SMEs are really not the victims of that legislation, as we all know; it is an adjustment of routes that we do not consider acceptable and desirable, we all know how to restrict access to the Ministry and to balance them with other interest groups, such as Tax Justice and civil society organisations? That is my second question. By the way, that also applies when you saw Shell setting up, even in the run-up to the debate. They sat there like a saint. I talked to them about that, too, so I'm just gonna say it now. "'We don't make constructions', but they have a construction to avoid the dividend tax you really need a whole army of fiscalists for. That's gotta be different. This week came out of the newspaper, and we got reports, that in an international context, real progress is now being made in tackling our own tax avoidance structures, both in the digital companies, Google, Apple, Facebook and the ordinary multinationals. The Secretary of State has always said: we are going to lead the way in the Netherlands. My question to the Secretary of State is: is that actually true? Are we even running first? Those proposals actually say: if you have deductions in one country, you have to compensate for that and there should simply be a minimum effective rate. But in the Netherlands we are far from that far. Is the Secretary of State prepared to really go ahead there? Is he prepared to introduce these measures in the Netherlands? The PvdA would be a great supporter of that. Because with only that bill of SP and GroenLinks we close one loophole in the law, but there are still a lot to follow. Is the Secretary of State prepared to go there? Finally, I would like to draw attention to another tax regime. It is very sensitive, I know, but I am happy to draw attention to it. It is a public secret that very wealthy, wealthy families in the Netherlands pay zero euro inheritance tax. They all make use of a company succession scheme. There's been a PhD on it once. The former Secretary of State had picked up half a sentence from that and then all the newspapers were filled again and he had to go back into the loft. However, I am really asking the Secretary of State to keep that regulation under review and to really ensure that wealthy families in the Netherlands simply pay their taxes and do not benefit from loopholes in the law that are not intended for that purpose. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u3	Thank you. We are now going to listen to Mrs Leijten from the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u4	For 40 years, the disposable income of families has barely risen. There is a raise, but the cost of living, care, energy, studying children and you name it a rise just as hard or harder. For 40 years, we have seen that workers in our country do not benefit from economic growth. We have a society where children can't go on a school trip because the parents can't afford it. There are people who can't afford the cost of energy and who have the heating in their house permanently at 16°C. That's energy poverty. In whole parts of the country there is no public transport and people depend on the car, while they may want to be much more economical. The food banks still haven't disappeared. In fact, the use of this is increasing, just as in the case of debt relief. People don't get care because they can't pay the care costs. If, during a hearing in this Chamber, you hear Shell saying that she doesn't pay taxes and doesn't contribute and you hear the other multinationals saying that they don't, then you're wondering: what's going on here? Why the hell was this made possible? Successive Cabinets have made everything possible to so-called reduce the profits that companies make, to pretend they don't make a profit. These are measures such as the innovation box........................................................................................................................................................................................................... Instead of closing those loopholes, we say, "No, we're going to do an investigation." Last week, the newspaper said that if Dutch big companies, multinationals, were to actually pay the 25% profit tax rate on their profits, we would have an extra 47 billion a year in the treasury. 47 billion a year! Mr. Chairman. If the economy goes bad, people pay. We are barely beyond the measures of Rutte I and II. The housing market's all over the place. There are major problems in the care sector, not to mention youth care. We're seeing problems with security and with the police. But where were the measures for these companies to contribute to the economy? They're not here now that things are going well economically. No, they'll get a tax cut. Mr. Chairman. It's time for justice. It's time we made the deal that you just pay taxes. Now there will be a committee, because the coalition parties have made some sort of flight forward. They have tabled a motion stating that a committee must be set up. It must look at the tax burden on large companies, but also at the locational environment. Of course, you'll remember where you're going. I want there to be independent people on that committee who are also critical, people who have been advocating a fair tax system for years. Is the Secretary of State prepared to agree to that? I do not want another column of tax advisors from the same multinationals, who have no moral sense. Finally. We can make all kinds of laws that prevent you from using certain constructions, but ultimately it's about the principle. I'm asking the Secretary of State to do the following. Would it be possible for us to reverse the burden of proof for these types of constructions that companies only use for the avoidance of tax measures and in which the Tax Administration is very difficult to prove? Companies will then have to demonstrate that their business structure is necessary for their business operations. Then all Shell's companies on Bermuda are superfluous, because then we know that they are only used to avoid tax. Would it be possible to reverse the burden of proof through this direction of thought: do you as a company show that it is necessary instead of the Tax Administration having to investigate a construction for years? I think that would be a solution. Then you don't have to change all those laws, but then the principle is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u5	Thank you. Then Mr Omtzigt of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We tax and collect to maintain public facilities. We levy this tax everywhere in the Netherlands, but also everywhere. If you earn the minimum wage, you pay around €150 tax per month. If you buy a bread, you pay 9% VAT. A while ago, we even brought the housing corporations under the profit tax. But, yeah, that's what we thought they could subtract too much, and so the government, because they paid too little tax, introduced a landlord's tax. That's a special tax on social housing. That's $2 billion a year. If you have a rental house with a WOZ value of 2 tonnes, the government will tax you over €1,000 and it will of course just come back in the rent. If you are a small entrepreneur and earn your profits, then you pay income tax. If you're a big multinational, you have a chance that you won't have to pay a profit tax in this country. The Netherlands has been working hard over the last few years to bring the headquarters of multinationals here, and we have lost some of that. Because while the headquarters and associated professionals have work on the Zuidas, the underlying work disappears elsewhere. Unilever has closed or divested several factories. Will the Netherlands be better with a one-sided focus on multinationals? The CDA fraction is leaning towards a nuanced negative response. Other countries are pulling away important Dutch innovations. Booking.com was a Dutch company and is also the only European company in the top fifteen new tech companies. It could have stayed in the Netherlands, but went away to the US. Dutch newspapers became a Belgian duopoly, because there are certain tax advantages in Belgium. Is this good for Dutch society? I doubt it. Taxation and tax exemptions lead to the acquisition of certain activities and the disposal of other activities. That doesn't always make the economy fairer. That is why the Chamber has already adopted a motion this week, Mr Leijten, in order to make the taxation of multinationals fairer. We have asked the government, as it has just asked, to make a proposal for the precise questioning and the precise interpretation of the committee. Because that's the point I have to give her: if you're going to take care of it in a certain way, you can already write down the answer. So we would like to see them before the committee gets to work. Did I challenge anything, Mr. Chairman? Oh, come on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u7	You'd almost think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u8	If you put certain people with certain interests on a committee to advise the government, you already know what the outcome is. That is what Mr Omtzigt is actually saying. That is, of course, a correct observation, but what does the CDA want? Does he want those certain people with those particular interests on that particular committee? Is VNO-NCW allowed on that committee, or rather not? What about the CDA in there?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u9	Several people can talk about that. If you set up a committee to talk about multinationals, it will certainly include someone from that world. But it doesn't say for nothing that I want a number of outsiders and independents in it. They'll have to be on that committee. So I would like to see a joint committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u10	You're gonna set up a committee to see how big multinationals pay taxes and then you're gonna put the chicken that's actually on the menu in that committee. What do you think? Shall we eat chicken or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u11	I'm looking at Mr. Van Raan behind you. It's a bit of a cackle that's not a good idea. Are we going to eat chicken? We're not gonna eat the multinationals. We're not gonna drive all the multinationals out of here. We're gonna look at an honest tax rate. 0% or 100% input in it seems like a big world of difference. I do not want a committee dominated by multinationals, but if you ask me if they can say something, yes. That's why we invited them here. So if you're going to make a list to file a motion later that says there should be no one in it who's ever had anything to do with a multinational: I'm not going along with that. If the question of whether we want to have some independents in it who have something completely different, then my answer is: yes, I want them on that committee. On this basis, I will check whether that is a balanced list, a bit within the framework I have outlined here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u12	...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u13	Well, I've never silenced Mrs. Leijten. That's a real first!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u14	We'll tell our grandchildren this!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u15	Normally she starts with me being completely wrong, but now she has to think, that must mean something.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u16	Where were you when it happened, we'll tell each other later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u17	I am thinking in particular about whether what Mr Omtzigt is answering offers a little clarity. For now there is a tax rate of 25% for the income tax. You think it's okay to go down while we hear they're actually paying zero. Now you set up a committee where you say: I actually think there should be a fair rate. Well, you just put that at 21% with the coalition agreement. So where does it end? I was thinking, what is this committee supposed to do? Is that committee supposed to tell them to just pay the 25% or the 21%? Do we have to change laws? Should we ban routes? Or are you saying that all this is open and that everyone can talk along, including those with the greatest interests?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u18	It's open. Because a number of companies manage not to talk at all about profit tax... uh, they also didn't want to talk about it... is my strong suspicion that the biggest recommendations could be to close certain routes. That seems to me to be the most logical outcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u19	Fine. You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u20	I have also seen a proposal from GroenLinks that I think was about the Bosal-hole. The motion tabled today by Mr Van Weyenberg calls for an overall overview of all the deductions and base narrowers in the Vpb... Who filed it? Oh, I'm in the app and I was in another meeting, but that was a motion I wanted to write myself. I have an alternative to that, so we did not even agree with Mr Van Weyenberg. Those who know the coalition know that Mr Van Weyenberg and I do not always do the same spontaneously, but in this case it seems like it is. I would also very much like to have that overview.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u21	We've had that for a long time, haven't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u22	No, we don't. I'm going to explain, because I hear Mrs Leijten saying that we do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u23	I'm gonna run your clock again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u24	That's what I was afraid of. We do have the overview in the ib of what the cost of care deduction, mortgage interest deduction and gift deduction costs. It's all there. If we look in the Millions note at which Vpb deductions we have, there are a number of things there, such as the innovation box, but the base narrowers like the cap and that sort of thing, are not in it. I'd like to know what's going on. I will say that I also care; I would like to have a cut with the big companies, say multinationals over 750 million and everything underneath. Because I feel that one category makes a little more use of that than the other category. Perhaps that is another suggestion for Mr Van Weyenberg. Mr. Chairman. Number two: will the government instruct the WRR to do a study on the tax mix? You can do that together with the CPB. What impact does this have on society and what options does the Netherlands have to make other choices? Do we want to keep newspapers here? Let me look in the direction of the green parties; how is the greening going? Let me take a look at the VVD; what do we do with box 3? Is it right what we're doing? Finally, Mr President. We must continue to work in the G20 and OECD context in particular, and I see the government doing the same because there are very great challenges there with the platform economy and Internet services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u25	Thank you. There is a short question from Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u26	As I have already done in the media, I would first of all like to congratulate the motion tabled by the coalition, because I think it is really an important position and also a change in the coalition parties' position to tax multinationals. I have a substantive question for Mr Omtzig on the OECD proposals. Is he in favour of introducing a minimum effective tax rate? I would be very much in favour of that, because in the end they will pay taxes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u27	That would require a very nuanced answer, because it depends on where what is paid. Not only will there be an effective rate. The big problem at the moment is precisely which country you allocate the profits to. I must say that in the proposals we have seen so far, for my group the problem is not so much that tax has to be paid, but that in these proposals the allocation of profits often ended in Germany or France and that those countries were allowed to tax profits. So it depends on how we deal with that kind of proposal. But the fact that taxes are to be paid if profits are to be made is clear to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u28	Of course, you always have to bear in mind that one country doesn't run away with it while the other country does it with nice pious talk. I agree with Mr Omtzigt. However, this would mean that, at European level, you really need to make proper tax changes in the legislation. Is the CDA prepared to do that? I would very much welcome that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u29	The CDA is ready to talk very seriously about the G20 and OECD proposals. There are no blockages on the table beforehand, but that does not mean that we agree to everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u30	Mr Omtzigt just said: I think companies should pay taxes when they make profits. But that's exactly the game they're playing: they pretend they don't make a profit. Does Mr Omtzigt think that is a problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u31	They do make a profit, but that profit just goes down in jurisdictions where you don't pay a profit tax. It is a problem when it comes to fictitious deductions. The problem is that the subtraction can always be done here, while profits then fall in areas where palm trees stand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u32	But what does Mr Omtzig actually say? Is it a problem or isn't it a problem? The constructions that have been made, for example partly by Joop Wijn, former Secretary of State...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u33	Just so we're clear...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u34	Does Mr Omtzigt of the CDA think that it is not supposed to be allowed for a company to pretend that it does not make a profit, which means that it does not pay any tax?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u35	Does Mrs Leijten mean profit in a particular country? Because I would like to see action taken against this. That is also covered by the scope of the motion. Or does it mean profit on the world as a whole? That's where I'm lost for a while in what kind of constructions she's talking about, so they don't make a profit anywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u36	Because they're crushing the base enormously because they're pumping a huge debt into a subsidiary. That's how they subtract them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u37	No, but that's what I mean...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u38	Because you can have it knocked down somewhere else, but you can also pretend you don't make a profit on paper. Then Mr Omtzigt does not go against that, because he says: I think a company should pay taxes when it makes profits. But these companies are trying to act like they're not making a profit. Is it okay if Mr. Ommzig does that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u39	Can you give me one example, I say to Mrs Leijten, of a company that manages to pretend that it doesn't make any profit anywhere? I do see companies that manage to make a lot of profits on the Bermudas and little profit in normal countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u40	Shell is making about a billion euros of profit here, and can put it all away against debts and even get money.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u41	No, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u42	That's the example I'm talking about. By that they say: we make optimal use of your laws and you have to adapt them yourself if you want to. If Mr Omtzigt says very unclearly 'when a company makes profits, they have to pay taxes', does he think it is right that Shell on paper pretends not to make profits in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u43	No, but that 'in the Netherlands' is the addition I just did. Where the profits are made, the tax must be paid. You gave a second example that there are multinationals that manage to make no profit. I didn't know that example. It referred to the first example. Indeed, this is about companies that manage to pretend to achieve no profits at a location where they have quite a lot of activities that seem to be quite profitable. For this we will look at previous solutions. We're also willing to take steps. Second. If it happens, I'd love to hear it. I didn't say in my last sentence that Shell could be a very easy one. I would like to highlight the challenges we face with the platform economy and the Internet: where do you consume a service? It's not about the physical deliveries. The Zalandos of this world can all be taxed quite easily, because we know where that package is. But with software installation or reading online content, there are going to be real problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u44	Rounding, short and pointed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u45	That is why I consciously say that we are prepared to look at the example of the company you just mentioned. But I couldn't come up with an example of a company that says I can't make a profit anywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u46	Very good. Rounding, short and pointed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u47	The question was: is it okay with the CDA if a company that makes a profit through deductions pretends it doesn't make a profit? Take as an example Shell, IKEA. We've also seen this or you name it. Is the CDA okay with that or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u48	A brief answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u49	The CDA believes that income tax should be paid where de facto profits are made. And at some point IKEA even had the status of a charity in the Netherlands, the anbistatus.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u50	Thank you. Then we will listen to Mr Snels from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u51	Mr. Chairman. This is a debate that starts with morality, with the statement that everyone, individuals and small and large companies, pays an honest share of taxes. It is a debate that has been going on for some time and has been dominated by tax avoidance. More importantly, the question is whether multinationals pay their fair share. This debate has an international and a national perspective. First the international. The G20 has recently taken a firm position. The OECD must come forward with proposals within a year to increase the burden on multinationals. The OECD has been working on this for some time, but now there is also the political commitment to work out concrete measures as soon as possible. That goes along two lines. Firstly, multinationals are going to pay taxes where they provide services and make profits. This is also going to have consequences for the large tech companies. Secondly, multinationals are going to pay a minimum rate if countries ultimately find that they have found all the loopholes of the law wrongly. The Secretary of State has previously indicated support for the OECD project. It is now up to him to make a commitment that we are going to work on this and participate in it. We have also adopted a motion on this earlier. It is sensitive because it affects national autonomy and it can lead to the redistribution of tax revenues. I'd like a response. The second approach is national. The Secretary of State is reluctant to comment on individual companies, but now mainly Shell, but also Philips himself have indicated that they do not pay a profit tax, zero euro. At Shell, it was even over a longer period of time, as far as we know. That's untenable. How does the Secretary of State feel about that? Does he have a judgment on that? Did the Ministry know for a long time that there are big companies that don't pay any income tax at all? A coalition motion has been adopted to set up a committee to come forward with proposals. I supported that motion. At the same time, we know in general what schemes contribute to this: the Innovation Box, informal capital, transfer pricing for head office services and the liquidation loss scheme. If I'm missing something, I'll ask the Secretary of State. I'm also looking forward to the coalition's motion. The argument has always been: headquarters are important, so what do we care if they don't pay taxes? Think of the debate on the abolition of dividend taxation. Now, if we're going to look at that in a different way, I'm going to ask the Secretary of State. I was very pleased with the interview with the group chairman of the VVD some time ago in De Telegraaf. This was a disappointment in the attitude of large companies. Even the VVD, which works hard to give their presents like the abolition of dividend tax, while those companies themselves pay zero euro tax, cannot explain this anymore. I now also expect support and cooperation from the coalition and the cabinet to limit all the arrangements I have just mentioned, so that large companies will eventually pay some income tax. I supported the committee of inquiry, but it should not be a delaying manoeuvre to delay measures. I myself, as you know, have prepared an initiative law with the Labour Party and the SP to limit the liquidation loss scheme. After the turn of the VVD, for which compliments, and the motion of the coalition, for which I congratulate, I expect a positive attitude towards this bill. The consultation has been completed. With even more motivation and optimism, I will take up the further preparation of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u52	Thank you. Then Mrs Lodders of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u53	Thank you, Mr President. Thanks to the rich composition of entrepreneurs and a lot of activity, it is nice to live and work in the Netherlands. We have the one-man business, thezzp'er, the start-up, the SMEs and large companies. All these entrepreneurs contribute to e.g. the Netherlands. To keep the Netherlands attractive to these entrepreneurs, my party always pays a lot of attention to the location climate. A good locational environment includes, for example, good accessibility, good education, effective business areas, good care, a social safety net and low taxes. The Netherlands has a good locational climate. We have that good education, we have good infrastructure, unique business locations and good workforce, from low to high-skilled, who can do the job. In the field of taxes we have some beautiful crown jewels. We must cherish our locational climate. Without companies, without entrepreneurs, there are no jobs for people. Without companies there is no sponsorship of the scouting on Saturday, or of the football club. But these provisions do have to be paid for. We ask everyone to contribute to this. That's what we ask the nurse, thezzp'er, the baker on the corner, and that's what we ask big companies. Mr. Chairman. Here I do feel a tension. Large companies operating internationally with a head office in the Netherlands can use different tax rules, as mentioned by previous speakers. In the past, for example, we have made it possible for companies to offset foreign losses with the profits they make in the Netherlands. This way they pay less or no income tax. That feels unfair to a lot of people, and I sometimes find that unfair. People read that the economy is getting better, but they don't see that enough on their paycheck, or they don't feel it enough in their wallets. When you read in the newspapers that big companies make profits and don't pay taxes on them, it doesn't feel right. That feeling applies both to the people, but also to the SMEs or the one-man business. This cabinet has taken a number of measures to make large companies pay more taxes. The VVD looks further. That is why we proposed with a number of colleagues last week to set up a committee of experts, a committee that will advise the cabinet within six months on measures to make the taxation of profits of multinationals fairer, while keeping the Netherlands attractive as a place of residence. This motion has now been adopted. My group is therefore looking forward to the findings of these experts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u54	Mrs Lodders outlined three sentences back the difference between multinationals that pay or pay less and SMEs, which also work hard and pay taxes. She sketched that that doesn't feel fair. So that's some kind of emotional thing. She says, "That's the way it is; it may feel annoying, but what is so, is so?" Or does she think it's really unfair and wants to do something about it? I hope that Mrs Lodder will be able to clarify the difference between feeling and being.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u55	In my view, I have already indicated that the cabinet has already taken a number of measures to increase the tax burden on these large companies. We have included that in the coalition agreement. At the same time I also indicated that the VVD is looking further. That is also why we used the motion tabled last week and put to the vote on Tuesday to ask a committee to advise the cabinet: how can you ensure that these big companies pay taxes in a fair way? I have a few comments to make on this later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u56	I welcome this clarification. So it's not so much the feeling. It is more about the fact that it is really unfair and the VVD is also willing to take steps in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u57	I am listening very carefully and I just hear Mrs Lodder say that this cabinet is already taking a lot of measures to increase the burden on companies. That's not the image I have of this cabinet. This is the cabinet for the multinationals. The dividend tax measure seems to have almost been chosen for those companies which, with the lower profit tax, could not actually obtain any more money: profit tax was not already paid out, but through that dividend tax. There is also 4 billion in relief for businesses, while people's wages are lagging behind. That is a very different reality from the reality you have just outlined. I am in favour of you doing that from now on, but you cannot say that this cabinet is taking great steps and has put more burdens on companies?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u58	I have always been very high on Mr Nijboer, and Mr Nijboer is well aware that the reduction in the burden on business, for example, including the Vpb, has also been brought in by business as a whole. In addition, a number of measures have really been launched. I'm just mentioning the deduction limit. These measures matter and we are going a step further, because I said that we are also looking forward. That's why we filed that motion. I think you have rightly congratulated us on this, but that is not a new story from us. We have also been very busy in recent years to ensure that the tax payment is fair.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u59	What I have always opposed and what I find really perverse is that tax avoidance measures, which counter tax avoidance, generate money and are returned as a reward at lower rates. That is, of course, what this cabinet has done; that is the four billion. Does Mrs. Lodders get off that, too? Or, in the end, does it mean that some circumvention measures are being taken again and that at the same time some is being returned, so that the costs of all those important things that she mentioned, i.e. education, care and infrastructure, are still being coughed up by the same people and companies are getting put up again, only by another way? Then we're not getting anywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u60	Look, we need to see the difference between tax evasion and tax avoidance. Tax evasion, that's very clear. And you can't accuse the VVD of not wanting to take it. I mean, you yourself contributed to this during the previous period. As far as tax avoidance is concerned, Mr Nijboer has also heard me say a number of times in various debates that not everything needs to be done. You may accuse companies of all kinds of things, but you have to look closely at the legislation. That is why we indicated in the debate last week that we should table this motion. Let us anticipate a number of other issues that we already have on the agenda and which I shall return to in a moment, so that we can be informed by experts within six months of how to do this more honestly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u61	Fine. Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u62	Yes, very briefly. I would like to make an agreement with Mrs Lodder that the proceeds will benefit people rather than being redirected back to the same companies via a route of which we still have a lot in the tax system.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u63	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u64	The fact that I've indicated that I recognize the feeling of people... maybe I can even say "recognize.".. indicates that we have to make those people feel it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u65	Figures from the Central Bureau of Statistics show that Dutch companies made a total of 290 billion profits in 2018. If you take that 25% of the income tax, you should get 72 billion or 72.5 billion. But it's only 23 billion. Doesn't Mrs Lodder agree that we need to know exactly where the other 47 billion is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u66	This debate has already been discussed a number of times in this debate. All I can and want to say is that I think that large companies should pay taxes in a fair way. I'm not going in a frame to avoid or evade taxes. Maybe it's right to ask the Secretary of State for confirmation. In fact, if taxes are knowingly evaded, we really have another problem. But we have taken a number of measures to do that, so I'm guided by that question. If companies comply with laws and regulations, but if you do not agree with them, then we need to adapt those laws and regulations. I think that Mr Snels is taking a step in that direction, and you signed it together with Mr Nijboer. The coalition parties tabled a motion last week requesting experts to make a number of proposals to see how things can be fairer. So you're gonna take those steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u67	I think this is a bit of a long answer. Look, as a Dutch democracy, we set our budget annually. It comes in through taxes. They are our tool to shape our society, to divide or not divide wealth, to reduce or increase income. There are always debates between the VVD and the SP and everyone else. Then what's being said? "'We think it's fair, we think it makes sense that there is a profit tax of 25%."' Over the past year, there have been series of parliamentary questions about what is actually being paid and what effective rate there is now, because we know that 25% is not coming in. You have to want to know why. It's about 47 billion! Mrs Lodders has just asked for a debate on 800 million, and it is also important for it to come in, but this is about 47 billion! And of this she says: yes, rules, laws, if they abide by it, then... And then she doesn't answer it. Actually, I think that's a little too little.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u68	I did answer the question. My argument here is based on fair tax payments. I assume that companies, whether small or large, are all complying with the laws and regulations. That's what we agreed on. Mrs Leijten is suggesting something that we must be very careful about. This is about companies, about entrepreneurs. There are a lot of entrepreneurs and small and medium-sized enterprises who work hard every day and pay income tax. They are also very much concerned with our economy, with jobs, with employment, with the good things we are asking for. So let's not have the debate too black and white either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u69	It is precisely those small entrepreneurs, who palpate, who may make a profit, who may not make a profit once, who pay taxes, and those large multinationals, who often compete away with these small entrepreneurs, who do not pay taxes. You heard them say it here last week. In fact, I find it bizarre that we are meeting tax rates here every year for people who work in those companies, in the government, in a health care institution or in education. Then we know exactly what they have to pay. It's automatically withheld. Then we say, okay, the companies pay at least 25%. And they don't pay for it. Isn't that the biggest shame the VVD is going after? Otherwise, you won't have to make any more appointments, will you? Don't you want to know what the effective rate they're paying is? Don't you want to know how much we miss?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u70	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u71	I'm going to repeat myself. My argument is based on a fair tax, especially for large companies. When there are rules, companies have to abide by them. Really, you can only say of the VVD that over the last few years we have been strongly committed to tax evasion and tax avoidance. Don't tell me it's not true. So if companies comply with laws and regulations, then we have to come up with proposals to adapt them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u72	May I make one comment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u73	No, I've heard you three times, Mrs. Leijten. I suggest you proceed, Mrs. Lodders. No, Mr Snels has the floor first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u74	I would like to move on to the debate that Mrs Lodders had with Mr Nijboer. We are all attached, at least to the coalition, to the burden framework and the coalition agreement, so there is not much room for burden relief for low and middle incomes. Now we're looking for room. We are doing this with our own-initiative proposal and perhaps the committee will also come up with proposals to make multinationals pay a little more tax. I think you are saying very loudly that this does not go back to business, but to people. I think it is even clearer, because if I understand Mr Dijkhoff correctly, it should even go to people with low and middle incomes and not to people with high incomes. Can you confirm that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u75	That is a statement by the group chairman, Mr Klaas Dijkhoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u76	So if we come up with new legislative proposals, which will make multinationals pay more taxes, then the VVD shares the line of opposition, which we have been trying to make clear for a few years, people over multinationals, that the space we gain by doing so goes back to people with low and middle incomes. So it doesn't go to business, it doesn't go to high-income people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u77	We know how the arrangements are going here. Of course, we're never going to anticipate business, revenue or otherwise. You are also somewhat ahead of your legislation. I look forward with interest to the moment you submit your law. Then we have the debate on this with each other. I have myself indicated that for the VVD it is important that we go for fair taxation for multinationals. That's the committee. Your initiative law may also be part of that. Then you're going to see where the load relief is going at that moment. Then I can only express the line expressed by my group chairman, Mr Klaas Dijkhoff. That is where we would like to focus. Mr. Chairman. I'm moving on. I mentioned last week's motion. Earlier, when dealing with the 2019 Tax Plan in 2018, I indicated that our tax system is in need of improvement. The Secretary of State has arrested the glove and announced a number of investigations. A part of these investigations is a future-proof tax mix, taxing revenues from digital platforms and also the future of corporate tax. They are also included in the letter on the future of the system in this way. In addition to these concrete steps, tackling tax evasion and tax avoidance remains an important priority of the VVD. I have just mentioned this in the debate on the interruption. We have taken serious steps in recent years to tackle tax evasion. That is quite right. As long as it takes, we'll have to keep doing it. Finally, Mr President. If we want to reduce taxation, I would like to say a few words in the direction of Mr Snels, so we will have to ensure that everyone makes that contribution. Mr Omtzigt challenged me to say something about box 3. That too is a great long-cherished desire of the VVD, to make that more honest. To be continued.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u78	Very good. I call Mr Edgar Mulder of the Group of the Party for Freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u79	Tax evasion is illegal and punishable. Tax avoidance is legal, totally legal even. But it is not acceptable for multinationals to achieve high profits and yet not pay a profit tax, because everyone has to pay taxes. Paying taxes is the basis of our civilization. Mr. Chairman. Work is hard in the Netherlands and every citizen pays his taxes without too much hassle. Our tax morals are high. But unjust tax avoidance, dubious tax constructions and the shifting of money are putting these tax morals on edge. For this reason alone, it is important that large companies, multinationals, pay taxes. The round table on May 29 was very embarrassing. Shell and Philips don't pay taxes, Akzo a little, I think, and Unilever 30 million. Mr. Chairman. Globalisation is increasing not only migration, terrorism and cross-border crime, but also tax avoidance. This parliament can change that. The beginning is there, with the renewed policy of this Secretary of State in the area of rulings. The PVV also supports the setting up of a committee that will come up with measures to make taxation fairer, especially because we are paying attention to our locational environment. The PVV doesn't want to drive companies away from the Netherlands, especially not from the more companies, the better the better, but there must be a basis of equivalence. The Netherlands provides infrastructure, well-educated staff and a safe country. Multinationals benefit from this, and then pay taxes like everyone else in the Netherlands, not somewhere in Africa or the Middle East, but in the Netherlands. That brings me to the discussion about the liquidation account. It is strange, of course, that a company may deduct foreign losses in the Netherlands, but that profits obtained abroad are not taxed. We will support any proposal to increase the amount of money in the Netherlands. I'm finishing up, Mr. Chairman. If the legislation is responsible for the current situation in which multinational companies do not pay taxes, and that seems to be the case, then it is the task of this House of Representatives, in this period, to amend the legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u80	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Weyenberg from the Group of... No, I'm sorry, Mr Van Raan of the Party for Animals is up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u81	Thank you, Mr President. In the meantime, we debate tax avoidance almost every week. That is a good thing, because tax avoidance undermines democracies, as is evident from Oliver Bullough's book, among other things. At the heart of the matter, tax avoidance is also very unfair; let us not lose sight of that. It is precisely the multinationals, such as Shell and Philips, that benefit from our Community-funded infrastructure and our education system. Without community money, no engineers, no designers, no Zuidas attorneys, no consultants, no tax advisors, no tax advisors working at very high remunerations by multinationals. And it is precisely those multinational companies that do everything in their power and also have the means to avoid the tax. They want to benefit, but they don't want to contribute. That is the foundation of these kinds of companies. We need to get rid of that. That is why, in the general consultation we have already held, we insisted on the need to reverse the burden of proof in constructions. Mrs Leijten already argued in favour of this, together with Mr Slootweg of the CDA. In that general consultation we did so and we are considering a motion on that point. Countries elsewhere are also in huge losses due to large-scale tax avoidance. Let us not forget this in the collective indignation about our own lost tax revenues. Mr. Chairman. At the public hearing on multinationals and their tax morals, one of the participants wiped the floor with this Chamber. Multinationals adhere to the law and in this house the laws are made. In other words, it was simply the fault of the Dutch parliament that companies do everything they can to avoid the law. These statements are proof that voluntary and non-binding sector initiatives on corporate social responsibility will not work. Companies, especially multinationals, comply with Dutch law. You're hoping for that, but after that, it's mostly the flood. In that same hearing, Shell indicated that it is willing to do a little bit of country-by-country reporting. This is it, and here it comes! To the satisfaction of NGOs and charitable organisations. Let that get to you. Shell is going to do public country-by-country reporting, to the satisfaction of third parties as well as charitable organisations. That's a lot, but the Animal Party wants this promise to have real value. We expect the Secretary of State to agree with us. Don't let this promise die without commitment. The Secretary of State has recently indicated that he considers this promise of Shell to be important, but that he sees only a role for himself to continue to repeat it in public speeches. What will the Secretary of State do to prevent him from becoming a crying in the desert with his public speeches? At least it's a good step from Shell. Is the Secretary of State prepared to make public country-by-country reporting mandatory? This way you get consistency in the data, with as cherry on the cake the desired level playing field for the companies. The fact that it is contained in a BNC sheet or European directive does not alter the fact that you can also do what you need to do. Finally, Mr President. Meanwhile, colleagues of the coalition parties have also come to the conclusion that tax avoidance by the Dutch multinationals has taken problematic forms. That's profit. At least, on the initiative of the coalition, the full Chamber asked the government to set up a committee to advise on measures to increase the level of taxation of multinationals in six months' time. That's a good idea. We also supported this motion. My question to the Secretary of State is whether the numerous studies already completed and documented by the OECD, the CPB, SOMO, Oxfam and Tax Justice are included. These investigations not only expose companies in and through the Netherlands to avoid tax, but also contain many recommendations. Is this new research going to be some kind of meta-research in order to be able to take all existing studies together? Do we really need another investigation? I would like to receive a response from the Secretary of State. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u82	Thank you. Then Mr Van Weyenberg of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For D66 it is clear: everyone has to pay a decent tax in this country, citizens and businesses, large companies and small businesses. Unfortunately, that is not yet the case. This proved to be the case at the hearing, for which I once again thank the initiators, in which multinationals with headquarters in the Netherlands indicated that they would pay no or hardly any tax. That frustrates not only D66, but the whole room. That is why I welcome the unanimous support for the motion of CDA, VVD, Christian Union and D66 which calls on the Secretary of State to work on this and to have a committee make proposals. I think the Secretary of State can see this as a real support for his approach. For for D66 it is clear: everyone has to pay neatly, including the Shells and Unilevers of this world. Mr. Chairman. Of course, this has to be done in a way where the Netherlands remains attractive to innovate and create jobs, but that can also be done if you pay taxes. I therefore think this is a good addition to the many actions already being taken by the Cabinet in dealing with tax avoidance, whether it is the reduction of interest deduction, the Innovation Box, the withholding tax or the fact that we will soon be getting an implementation proposal for a reporting obligation for tax advisors in tax constructions. Mr. Chairman. The fact that the Netherlands is not sitting still is also demonstrated by international reactions. The OECD's tax director said it sounded like music to him and that it is a fundamental change from the past. The European Commission recently recognised that we, as the Netherlands, are now taking real action to make the tax system fairer. But at the same time we were warned: you are not yet here; make sure that your beautiful plans become practice. And that's right. I have a few specific questions. At the G20 meeting last weekend, there was a lot of support for doing something really international, so that taxes are paid where money is earned and there are minimum tax rates worldwide. As far as the latter is concerned, it is no secret that D66 has long been in favour of it. I hope that the Secretary of State will also make a constructive contribution to these actions. Now I understand that formally the OECD pathway that has contributed significantly to tackling tax structures and tax avoidance is finite. I think it is important that, as a whole, we call on the Secretary of State to continue, of course, to launch new ideas and ensure that old agreements are respected. Quite specifically, I would like to have a more detailed overview, Mr Omtzigt has given a small sneak preview of my input from which base narrowers and deductions large companies can use. In doing so, it is indeed wise to distinguish between companies with a turnover of between 500 and 750 million and the really big boys. Indeed, I believe that the overviews we have received so far are still incomplete. For example, the liquidation account is not included. I'd like a response. In this context, I am also curious about the reaction of the Secretary of State to the news this morning in the Financial Daily that the Hoge Raad said that the Tax Administration wanted to tackle a construction but was whistled back. Is that also why the Secretary of State says that we should take a good look at this legislation? Around the country-by-country reporting I fully agree with Mr Van Raan. In my opinion, the Netherlands has been advocating this for a long time. The force field is tricky, but I also assume that if Shell, for example, is going to publish, she will distinguish between just neat VAT and payroll tax and the income tax. The latter, of course, is what we are so curious about: how much do they pay? AmCham is a lobbying organization of companies with ties in the US. I'm fine with the government talking about that. Companies aren't dirty. It's fine to talk about that and then politics decides. But now AmCham also has a tax committee that aims to translate it into Dutch to actually warn and signal when tax proposals might be bad for companies. Then what does my surprise sketch? That in the long public membership list I not only meet all kinds of people from companies fine, everyone can lobby.... but also someone on behalf of the Dutch government, on behalf of the NFIA. I will not read the name, although it can be found, but that is not at all my concern. Does the Secretary of State agree with D66 that you should separate the roles and that there should be no officials on tax committees of lobby clubs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u84	I have already had a lot of discussions with Mr Van Weyenberg about the cabinet tax avoidance measure, where I indicated that I think it is perverse that you reward companies that first avoid tax with 4 billion relief. Does he agree with Mrs Lodders and is he also prepared to say that what this new measure leads multinationals to pay taxes benefits us all? Does he share that view?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u85	Yes, even more so, in my own election programme, the burdens of companies increased as well. I agree with this. I also agreed with Mrs Lodders on another point. You keep saying, and you keep saying, that you are doing so on purpose, that there is 4 billion relief. No, we're taking money by taking tax constructions, and that goes back to companies. This does not specifically go back to those companies, but it goes back to the SMEs, to all companies. The measures relating to interest relief and the innovation box affect a number of specific companies and we give that money back to a much larger group of companies. You might have wanted to change that balance, but let it be very clear: people are going to pay less taxes with this cabinet and not companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u86	Constructions are being tackled, and that's worth 4 billion. First, about half of them would go to the dividend tax, the foreign shareholders, and that is now being returned in the form of lower profit tax so that the Netherlands also takes the lead in the race towards the bottom of profit tax rates, which does not change the ratio between what people pay and what companies pay. I do not want to make that difficult, because I simply disagree with Mr Van Weyenberg on this point, which we now see again, but I am pleased that the forthcoming proposals are being withdrawn from that position and that D66 does not say, as the VVD said in the past, that it must necessarily go back to business. That's profit. I hope we can get back together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u87	Sure. I repeat that all the reliefs from this cabinet go not to companies but to people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u88	I am pleased that Mr Van Weyenberg has just mentioned the role of the AmCham and has also mentioned the bad lobbying activities. Here's what I'm curious about. It is indeed written that there may be tax measures that are detrimental to businesses. Does Mr Van Weyenberg agree with the Animal Party that, in the eyes of the AmCham, this could also be measures that make tax avoidance more difficult, in other words that AmCham is fully involved in the idea that paying as little tax as possible is actually better for business?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u89	Any organization is free to lobby for what it thinks is sensible. Then it is up to us to listen to it or not. I notice that we are not dealing with a number of organizations; I just saw Mr Merkies sitting down from people from the tax world rarely get the advice to turn a little bit closer somewhere, because there is a lot of use being made of it. I agree with you in this respect that I would like to put the following question to the Secretary of State. We have ethical hackers in this country. Can we actually hire a couple of tax hackers to support the Tax Administration by looking at what trick they could think of to get out of a particular tax measure? I know a number of NGOs are already playing that role. But if the Secretary of State says "'please put me in service with the Tax Office" ', maybe the officials will do it themselves. 'I am in favour of that. After all, we have learned here that we have to rely on maximum creativity among consultants. So we need to be well prepared for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u90	I think that is an attractive proposal from Mr Van Weyenberg. We will support that. But my question was another one. I said that, in the language of the AmCham, an increase in measures taken by the Netherlands to discourage tax avoidance is seen as detrimental to companies. You don't think it's a bad thing that that's morale, do you? I'm just asking for a judgment. Everyone's free to do that, but I'm asking for your judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u91	Then I wouldn't have fully understood the question. Thank you to Mr Van Raan. I think it is very important for companies to realise that they work in an environment with open borders, with international trade, with a lot of benefits. Mrs Leijten mentioned a large number of them in her speech. Companies need to realize that this includes paying a decent tax. I think that's very wise. In fact, I think it is also extremely stupid to think as a business that you can go to the pit with threats every time. I also know that many companies don't want that either. Because they want to be part of the Netherlands. And then you don't become, and you don't have a support base, if you think tax rules apply to everyone all the time, but they can best be zero for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u92	I support Mr Van Weyenberg's remark that there must be purity of roles, that as an official you should not be a member of a lobby organisation, certainly not as an official in that office. In fact, I have been advocating a somewhat stricter separation in this whole tax advice area for a long time. The AmCham, VNO-NCW and the NOB are all actually going out with the same message. They all run down the Ministry endlessly. I call for a more restrictive attitude. Then why doesn't he support that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u93	For starters, I think everyone is free to make their contribution to the government. This must be transparent. The AmCham's membership list is very transparent. I think that's nice. That's the way it's supposed to be. I think people have a right to do that. I assume that, of course, the Tax Office, the Treasury, is not standing on one foot here, that people are also listening to critics, NGOs, tax justice, that they also appreciate those reports. That's what I always try to do myself. I would say, however, that a great many opinions, in particular the advice we receive from the NOB, are mainly about the legal technique. I'm just okay with that. With a clear, understandable law without technical uncertainty, everyone has been helped. But you are right: the lobby for less taxes is very large. But at the same time, I also see that people are saying more and more often: wait a minute; you're just supposed to pay honest taxes. I see an increase on that point. Then we have own-initiative laws and all kinds of proposals from the cabinet. So I call on the cabinet not only to talk to representatives of companies. I don't think this Secretary of State and the Ministry do either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u94	No, it is absolutely true that something has changed, not in public opinion, because I think it has always said "'How do we automatically pay taxes and do not do big companies or the real rich on earth?', But that here the language and the tone has changed. Even the VVD knocks on the chest that they're doing everything they can. Well, of course we know how much they're stopping. Anyway, at least she's showing off feathers that aren't hers. Then you have to be clear when you say now: we are going to set up such a committee. Actually, we already know, don't we? Van Raan also said: it's actually a summary of all those reports we've already had, from SOMO, Tax Justice, Oxfam Novib. Do you think that this committee should not be populated with all people with interests or with those interest groups when it comes to role purity?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u95	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u96	I really agreed with Mr Omtzigt on this. I want that committee to be diverse, that there are scientists in it. And that there's someone in there who says "'take care of business"' is fine with me, as long as there's anyone in there who says "yes, but wait a minute, let's watch out for the race down"'. For me, it's about the balance in that committee. Moreover, I do not entirely agree with you that we already know everything. We know a lot, but one of the things that I think is really additional is that we have talked a lot about international tax avoidance structures. I believe in international cooperation there, as you know, but we can also look here: hey, that's weird from the multinationals. According to the letter of the law, it is all right and we have the exemption from participation, but with the end result, I think we are all unhappy. So I do have questions, too. As you know, we are a fan of staples through a whole bunch of reports, but as far as I am concerned, I also have a real new job here when it comes to how we make these companies pay for their share.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u97	Fine, thank you. We now have the final speaker on the side of the Chamber. That is Mr Van Otterloo of the 50PLUS Group. He was sworn in last Tuesday as a Member of Parliament, as a new colleague. And normally, because this is his first plenary performance in this room, this would be a maiden speech. But Mr Van Otterloo has been a Member of Parliament before and has made his maiden speech. You can only lose your parliamentary virginity once in 1986. That was in the Old Hall. I looked it up. It was the second Lubbers cabinet and the Minister of Finance was then Mr Ruding. The world was still in black and white.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u98	Yes. And here's a patched-up virgin!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u99	I would never say that! So this isn't a maiden speech, but it's a little bit. You are therefore very welcome, I say to the Members, to interrupt Mr Van Otterloo; that is all possible. I'll suspend for flowers afterwards, because a flower girl has reported from 50PLUS, Mr Krol himself. I shall suspend for a moment, and if you would like to congratulate Mr Van Otterloo on his maiden speech, which is not a maiden speech, you are very welcome to do so. I call Mr Van Otterloo.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u100	Yes, Mr. Chairman, no problem with the interruptions. The debate today, of course, goes far beyond the question of whether Shell and the rest of the multinationals pay taxes. It is also important that large companies make their own contribution to the financing of our society, of our facilities, and not just to ordinary citizens and smaller businesses. Society revolves around the financial contribution of all members, which in the past was also called the Rhineland model. And besides all kinds of technology, the question is of course also today, how as a government you also adhere to international agreements and still don't want to be known as a tax haven. Look at the other side of the North Sea if you want to see what goes wrong when the proportions are skewed. Years of crooked relationships there made sure that the difference between who shares in the profits of globalisation and who has to pay the costs and the bill resulted in a vote for the Brexit. And then you might think the majority of the British are stupid, but if you, as ordinary citizens, hardly notice anything of economic growth and, on the contrary, especially austerity and burden-sharing, then it disrupts society. We of 50PLUS are in favour of a form of solidarity throughout society. Mr. Chairman. When I last acted as a Member of Parliament in this Chamber 25 years ago, the trend at that time continued. The share of the capital tax and the total tax revenue has decreased significantly. The share of taxes on labour and consumption is significantly higher. The labour income ratio, as it is called, has shown a sharp decline over the same period. We all know what that means: more room for profit and less room for pay. Even in 1994, a fair share of large companies was widely discussed. But then the corporation tax was 35%. That rate has been substantially reduced since then. This cabinet wants to go even further, so that we may even reach half. It scares me, even when I look at the distribution of burdens in society. The term 'race to the bottom' can of course also be abandoned today, because it does not go below zero, unless you also think that companies should receive substantial subsidies. The backside of that big boys hardly pay any profit tax is that the profit tax is mainly paid by the smaller companies and small entrepreneurs. Our tax system thus promotes hugeism. Not only here but also in the rest of the world you can see the unstoppable advance of digital superpowers such as Amazon, Google and Facebook. They like to use the Netherlands as a fiscal roundabout. That is the opposite of what 50PLUS should be like. I am also shocked by the contribution of VNO-NCW. They wrote: wasn't there a payroll tax and VAT paid? Perhaps the Secretary of State can offer them a course, because the last time I looked, the payroll and income tax was paid by the citizens themselves and should the VAT paid be deducted by the companies from the VAT received. What's going on here? This is where the pass-through door pretends to pay it out of their own pocket. I don't know if there's a course to go with that, but I'd like the Secretary of State to offer it to VNO-NCW. Moreover, the ordinary citizen can never claim to the Tax Administration that due to the storm a plumber came by to repair the roof or that he actually visited Albert Heijn or the Lidl today, because these are not deductible costs. This is quite different for companies. They do regard the losses they make as something they do not have to pay taxes on here. In corporation tax there are differences between large and small entrepreneurs, but if the big push-through abroad has opportunities to get to zero and small ones don't, then that story doesn't go away. This is really about the bottomline of zero. Large companies benefit from economies of scale and much better risk distribution. For example, they have a not to be underestimated advantage compared to smaller competitors and new entrants. If you can also move between different countries, then of course it is quite a celebration in the tax sense. Then we are faced with a legally accepted way of distorting competition, subsidised labour and state aid. You may write that down as a question to the Secretary of State. I would almost say: where is Brussels if you really need it? I share the indignation of Mr Nijboer, Mr Leijten and Mr Marijnissen at an earlier stage almost entirely. By the way, in the counter budget of 50PLUS, the reduction in corporate tax rates was completely reversed, resulting in many billions for a more social Netherlands. But that is clearly not sufficiently effective policy, because if the largest multinationals do not pay for it, then an increase in the Vpb is laughable for them. The baker on the corner will pay and the burger will swallow it. Unacceptable! 50PLUS therefore likes to think about and take part in additional legal measures. If we're past the race to the bottom, we can only go one way, and that's up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u101	Thank you. There is a question from Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u102	First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Van Otterloo on his near-maiden speech, but we were so expressly invited to interrupt that I am of course doing the same. I heard warm words about the importance of doing more internationally against tax constructions and preventing the race down. Those are words I like to join. Does this also mean that the 50PLUS Group will now be in favour of the minimum rates in Europe for the taxation of profits? That is what I would like to hear from this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u103	If that contributes to solving this problem, then yes. I'm just afraid that's not the end of the story. If we can arrange for a minimum rate throughout Europe to pay sufficient profit tax here too, then yes. Then there is the story of Mrs Leijten and the difference between the 47 billion. I did a quick math. I had four minutes. That's 240 seconds. So that's 200 million a second. So those are huge amounts of money when you look at what we're talking about. Not the whole 47 billion will be right in this, because it may also mean that there will be shifts over years, but I certainly think it is worth considering a minimum rate, along with the other measures that exist.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u104	You did have four minutes, but as a re-enterer you just took six.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u105	That'll be 150 million a second for my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u106	You are the successor of Mr Van Rooijen or you are not! Then you also have to walk a few minutes out of time, because otherwise we would have to get used to it too much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u107	It's obvious who gave him the course.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u108	It is absolutely true that a minimum rate is not the only solution. You have to do something about the foundations that have to be equal. You shouldn't sit still at national level. But I thought this was a hopeful answer, so I'm glad you're here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u109	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u110	I'm glad you're with us and that you've returned, Mr. Van Otterloo. If you stand in front of the rostrum, I congratulate you second and you will receive flowers from your group leader.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u111	It's my intention not to make a night's work out of it today. So if the Secretary of State can make a brief and pointy statement on all the points and the Members, if they wish to intervene, they should also do so briefly and pointy, Mrs Leijten! Then maybe we can just get ready for dinner. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u112	Mr President, what a wonderful endeavour! I'll share that with you. It would be nice, but of course I am waiting very carefully for the debate to take place, because it is an important debate. That is what I wanted to say, because this debate, which Mr Van Otterloo was not able to describe very well in his speech on maidens, is not just about the tax liability of multinationals, as is on the agenda. It's about more, because it's really about whether everyone who works in the Netherlands lives, lives and is present, can also pay a fair share to the collective facilities we have in the Netherlands, for example. That is actually the question raised in the debate. Isn't it true that large companies just have to do their part? Well, that's the heart of the debate. I really think it is a good debate. As you know, it is also one of my core concerns to spend a great deal of time on this subject with the Chamber. This is not just about combating tax avoidance, even if it is an important part, constructions and everything that goes with it. That's what we're working on. This is not so much about tax avoidance or evasion. Mrs Lodders asked me to underline that once again. This is simply also about the application of existing laws. So it may be that this is the discussion that we are having now, that in the application of the existing laws, there is still a widespread feeling in the Chamber that it is gnawing. That is why a motion was tabled last week, which I believe was unanimously adopted, to set up a committee to advise on the measures we could take to make it fairer. I'm taking it a little short. In the motion, I believe, there was already a good and rightful tension. On the one hand, we simply want an attractive location climate. We all want the Netherlands to be a pleasant country for companies to undertake. Real activities should continue to be welcome, but it was precisely those activities of companies which are not present because of a real desire, but who may be trying to close down tax in a different way. That is the part of tax avoidance and today we are going to talk about that other part. Let me first say on the motion that I really embrace it. I did that right away, because I think it's very serious as Chamber-wide support. That's, I think, what we need if we want to get on with this. We are going to talk about this committee, but of course we still need to know a lot. One of the reasons why, in my view, we have decided, in consultation with the Chamber, to fly it with a rather broad building block note, is because we want to know more. What kind of companies pay taxes? We want to know what kind of companies they are and what sectors they are. Is there a distinction between big and small? Who can already use the base narrowers? Moreover, this is a rather broad concept which is still difficult to fill in. I will explain why we do not yet have some items in the Millions Note. The reason for this is that we simply do not have a good understanding of some of the issues. I'll get back to you on that. The wish is, in any case, justified and I want it to be. We are actually very much in the process of looking at whether we could gain a deeper insight through the aggregated data we had previously and published in the Millions Note. In particular, you should remember that we are going to look for the level of attack. That means you can really look at what's going on in each company. Is such a company part of a conglomerate? Is it a multinational or not? That's not easy. I know we've tried that a dozen years before. At that time we were able to make something of a connection, for example between tax and commercial profits. But, I always say, it's not a law of binary realities. It keeps looking a little bit. The investigation is now under way. The starting point of the study was therefore the analysis of the Vpb receipts. The declaration dates are leading in this respect. Today, too, I say to the Chamber that, of course, it also looks closely at the multinationals. So we are also going to try as much as possible to establish a relationship with the contributions these companies make to our economy. We are going even further than that, by the way. The ultimate objective is that we try to deliver policy options in full breadth. At least this technical committee is going to deliver them for us. It is then up to us, the politicians, to make choices. The building block section "T" which this is actually part of, as Mrs Lodders pointed out, "T" is, with a very deliberate look, mainly a technical or otherwise. administrative route, where there has to be a lot of room for outsiders. So we do not really want a kind of political wish to be expressed in advance: 'Dear committee', you must or should not do so. I know that everyone here in the Chamber will have a different opinion on that. I think that we should first have as many facts as possible about how this Vpb is put together and what is happening I am repeating and that we can then go politically with those facts: what do we want and what do we learn from this? Then the outsiders in it. At the moment, the goal we have is to actively involve a reasonable large group of externals. That's what we said before. I agree with everyone in the Chamber who says that if we do that, it must of course be some sort of balanced group. It should not only include people from the implementation who know what is happening there, and it should not just include tax professionals. It is also important that we have people with EU law knowledge. We will certainly try, as I say to Mrs Leijten, to get professors who do not write praiseworthy reviews of cabinet policy every day, because that is part of it. So we are really going to try to fill the committee as balanced as possible and also to let the assignment that goes with it be broad. I had already planned to fill in the Chamber for the AO Fiscal Policy Agenda 2019 of 27 June, for which this building block letter is on-going. I say that again. I understand your desire to take a good look at that, so there will be a letter from the AO to the Chamber containing the staffing of the external guidance group, a report from the first meeting, which we have hopefully already had by that time, and an extensive research set-up. That's what I'm talking about with the committee. Then perhaps I can move on to some more specific questions that have been asked about parts of it. Normally I really have folders and themes, but here the number of questions is relatively clear. So I just wanted to go through them a little bit in the order in which they were set, because making folders seemed rather tricky.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u113	Mr. Snels first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u114	Thanks to the Secretary of State for the inventory he is going to make with the Tax Administration of the real economic activity of large companies, multinationals and sectors. There is a point of attention, perhaps in his reply I would like to give him with it, and that is that a lot of our tax policy and our tax legislation have been inspired by our desire to have head offices here in the Netherlands. Of course, that's true when it comes to Shell and Unilever. We do not want to lose them, but what is the point of Scotch whisky and Italian cars being a Dutch company now? In my view, this discussion also has to do with the way in which we, as politicians, look at the locational environment, where headquarters are concerned. How does the Secretary of State feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u115	There will be a comprehensive answer about the headquarters. I've got that in my set somewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u116	Now that motion was adopted on Tuesday and there is already a great deal more to be said about the implementation of the research. That deserves a compliment. I wrote along. Are the tax arrangements and the best way to set up your multinational company to pay as little tax as possible also included? Because if we're going to analyze which Vpb companies pay, you can actually put that down, but the question is what's behind them, for example, that they don't pay that 25% or much less.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u117	Sure. The reason is that we want to know. I'll be on that tax mix in a minute. The building blocks must really be a broad part: where are we now and are we satisfied where we are? Part of it is in the discussion that we now have a lot of about what is actually going on with our corporate taxes, whether they are honest and all the discussions we have had about them. My point is that this was specifically about the need for those dates. We now only have aggregated data and we see that we actually have too few control options. It is very difficult to see in the declaration whether a company that pays taxes is perhaps part of a conglomerate or a multinational, which is quite interesting when it comes to where losses are or are not. So indeed, the broad question you are asking is in any case on the agenda. For example, we are also going to see if we can simplify things further, so less bells and bells, which can also be used occasionally. We are also looking at measures to tackle tax avoidance unilaterally. That's part of the research question. And we will also pay particular attention to the multilateral development in the field of VPBs, which is what the OECD is doing and what we can learn from it. So I'm actually totally in agreement with Mrs Leijten. The point I was just talking about was mainly about data.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u118	In the course of the parliamentary questioning, we have heard clearly from the Tax Administration that when they see a structure that is purely tax-driven, it is very difficult for them to resist when there is a thick, bulky report from a tax advisory office, the so-called pleasing position. I asked the Secretary of State to think about turning it around. So not: we use this, because it is allowed; even if it is fiscally driven, it is legal. I'm asking you to reverse it so that companies have to prove that they really need those companies on Bermuda, "'cause there's a beach tent" or something. Is he willing to have that looked at, too? This makes it easier for the Tax Administration to say to a company: interesting business structure, but that is really only tax, and we don't accept it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u119	Again, I would answer that, but I understand the hunger for an answer, so I'm going to do that right away. We had two discussions about this. One was about those rulings. For example, we also had a discussion in the AO about these infocalps. To see the following, is actually relatively simple for the service. Suppose there's a company that has to prove a fact complex and says, "That's the way it is." When we see, for example, that a transaction goes directly to a tax haven, we say: "'We have seen enough. Cut through. You don't get a ruling. End of story." I made that clear at the time, and I am saying that now. That's how it goes. What you are saying is even more legal, if I understand correctly, namely: do you have to turn the whole Vpb into a different kind of tax, in which the burden of proof is reversed? I will check with Mrs Leijten to see if that is what she means before I answer the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u120	As far as I'm concerned, that doesn't just apply to the Vpb. When we examined tax structures, we were not allowed to look at multinational companies. We were only allowed to look at the rich and how they do it. It's applied for a lot more laws, but it's always about pretending that certain assets aren't yours for tax reasons, so you don't pay taxes. Now the IRS says they can't handle that. Especially when there is such an opinion, such an advocacy, they do not actually begin to do so. If you have to prove that you need Switzerland or Bermuda in your property structure and that there is a plausible reason for that, then the Tax Administration can say more easily: this is really about avoiding or avoiding taxes, so we just won't do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u121	I think I understand Mrs Leijten's question. There are two levels at which I can answer them. One. Here is the suggestion that it is very difficult for the Tax Administration to deal with this. I don't think so. The tax authorities are not unhappy with the measures they can take. The Vpb is, of course, a tax return. That is an important difference, even when it comes to the burden of proof involved. But step one is always that the taxpayer, the company in question, must make it plausible that it is. Step one is with them, not with the service. And the service can ask questions about that and say: we do not find that plausible. So step 1 as a whole is that the company has to make plausible why that is. The burden of proof is not yet in the picture. They're the ones who have to prove that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u122	Okay. The Secretary of State is continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u123	Yes, because otherwise we will come to a rather long discussion...................................................................................................................................................................................................... That's interesting, too, but maybe we shouldn't do that now. I actually wanted to answer a number of specific questions, including those concerning research and building blocks. We have already talked about questions from Mrs Leijten about those outsiders. Who is it about? We have a number of people in mind. Again, we want to make a balanced group with people of various plumage, as it is so beautifully called. I don't want to give the names yet because I haven't formally asked them. Soon we'll take steps in that. Among them are fiscalists, economists, people who specialise in EU law and people who come from implementation practice. We want it as wide as possible. As I just promised, I will inform you about it as soon as we have the names, but at the latest before the AO. That includes the research assignment. Mr Van Weyenberg and, if I have noted it correctly, Mr Snels asked more precisely which basic narrowers were to be dealt with. The innovation box, info cap and all others were mentioned. I already promised I'd come back to that. It is not so easy to quantitatively picture all the base narrowers because it is not possible to get everything out of the declarations. Let me give you an example of personnel costs. Those costs are deductible, so they're a deduction. At the same time, you will agree with me that we do not see it directly as a sort of fundamentalizer. We need to take a closer look at the arrangements for this and whether they come up in the declaration. Of course, we always have the problem that if one is exempt from something and one does not report it, we do not know what such a thing is worth. After all, no report has been made about it. So it's not as easy as it looks. That is also one of the reasons why we have said earlier that we are trying to give your Chamber more insight into this in the first quarter of 2020. I think the motion asked to do so within six months. I don't know if we're gonna make it through six months. Q1 2020 we are going to try to get something. We can always give intermediates again before, but if you really want that data, it's good to be heading a little bit at the beginning of 2020. Mr Omtzigt also asked for this. He asked for insight through the deductions and exemptions. That is a bit of the same problem. Many of the structures we know, such as infokap, which we have talked about so often, are often included in a general item as interest costs. It is not easy to see from the declaration whether the interest costs are in the context of an info cap, because info cap is nothing more than the claim that at least business costs must be calculated for a loan. That didn't always happen. Again, it is a little less simple than it seems to be to draw up a list of exemptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u124	A word about the ambition, including the committee. The committee will be presenting a report and an opinion in about six months' time. I just want to make sure that it is the ambition of this Secretary of State to come forward with legislative proposals for this cabinet period.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u125	This is, of course, entirely due to the opinion and the proposals. Anything that can and for which we have a majority to do so, I will not fail to do so. I just don't know what they're coming up with yet. That's what I think is right about it. But I do think we can talk about it when they come up with an opinion to amend a law that I and a majority of this Chamber believe in. So sure, that's what I think it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u126	Especially since I'm working on an initiative law myself. I think it is important that this ambition is really highlighted in this debate, because that also gives a little clarity to society that we are going to work hard on the more burdensome burden on multinationals. I think that statement is important.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u127	The latter goes on, namely that there is an objective to increase the burden on multinationals. I wouldn't agree with that. If we unanimously felt in the Chamber that we should look at a fair distribution, we would not be worth a slap in the face if we did not intend to take the advice seriously from the wonderful path we have with outsiders who are going to advise us and who are going to come up with things. So the answer is quite clear: yes, taking into account that the small target you mentioned should not be the starting point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u128	I don't understand that very well. The objective is that multinationals will pay more taxes, right? Some of them are paying zero now. That's what the Chamber wants, isn't it? Isn't that the whole background to that motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u129	It is important to achieve a fair distribution. But if it is said that no matter what comes out of it, multinationals will have to pay more... If all multinationals were to lose for years, I find it strange to assume that they always have to pay more than they do now. I think it is important that they continue to be part of society and pay part of the costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u130	I don't think even the SP is in favour of loss-making companies paying taxes. It's called "profit tax." It's not a loss tax. It seems a bit like I'm talking to a VNO tax advisor, because they always come up with all kinds of reasoning. Then you think you've got something, and then it turns out it's different.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u131	Don't worry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u132	We have a political debate here. All intentions are clear. The arrangements are highly technical and complex. There's gonna be a commission. It's being widely compiled, balanced and I don't know all about it. Eventually, at the bottom of the line, it will have to be said that Shell, Philips, Akzo and Unilever simply pay a normal amount of tax in relation to their profits?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u133	We have had the same discussion once before about, for example, digitalism. Now there's a country close to us that calls a number of companies. It uses the abbreviation GAFA, Google, Apple, Facebook and Amazon, and says: those are the companies we want to target. I think it is serious that tax legislation and tax policy should never be directed at a specific company. You say: we think Shell should pay more; you should make a law for that. I'm in a different place. I would also like to say that it is a bit of a wanted fight that you are trying to create here, because we are reporting everything. We want it to be more honest. We're gonna do something about that. We're gonna ask for good advice on that and we're gonna follow that up. You will say: yes, but you must now agree in blood that you are in favour of the heavier work, no matter what happens. I think that's a weird starting point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u134	Finally. I wasn't going to stand up at all, but when Mr Snels said "the objective is that multinationals pay taxes, right?', You said: well, that's not really the objective.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u135	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u136	That's what I was working on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u137	Okay. Good. Then we'll move on. In my view, Mr Van Weyenberg also made a brief reference to an FD article in this respect. I think Mr Snels did the same indirectly. Of course, that's about an individual company. You will understand, I say it over and over again that I cannot say so much about it. At the same time, I would like to have a good debate on what is behind it. This is a case in which, as you know, the Supreme Court has already stated earlier that such information-type situations should have a legal basis. We do. Here it is specifically about the year in which a liquidation takes place, I'm sorry, I just meant the liquidation loss scheme. Well, there's a discussion about that. It happens all the time. We have a lot of clear laws for which we end up in a court of law. That's what this case is about. But, of course, I cannot say much about the individual case here. Mr Van Raan also asked about the same investigation: is it the case that this committee also takes with it all the other investigations that have been carried out before? Whether it's all the other investigations, I don't know, but this is exactly the core of what we're going to do in those building blocks. There will not be another consultative commission and another opinion and so on. We already have a lot of material. That's what the NGOs give us. We also get that from tax advisors, even when they see things they think: watch out, that's what is going to be structured through. Of course, we also have people who see a lot in it, because they are experienced. So we really get a lot of insights. You mentioned Tax Justice, I believe; they too are really active thinkers. It's appreciated. The building blocks committee will, of course, continue to take these insights into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u138	Very briefly. By the way, that example of that company is anonymized, isn't it? The journalists speculate on which companies are involved, but the ruling of the Supreme Court is anonymous. But the political point, of course, is that we see it happening a number of times now, in the case of infokap and in the case of the liquidation loss scheme, that the Supreme Court says: the law is as it is; we are all really unhappy with it in this case even the Tax Administration was unhappy with it and so we have to amend the law. That is, of course, the underlying tone in this debate. If we find that the committee is going to work on the fact that there are arrangements that are being applied unhappily, but it is the law, then it is up to us to amend the law. Surely the Secretary of State will agree with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u139	Here too there is a small pars pro toto in Mr Snels' reasoning. He says the IRS is unhappy with the law, and that's why the trial is here. So it's not. The Tax Administration doubted the way in which the liquidation loss scheme was applied in this situation. That's what they're in court for now. I'm not going into the individual case, but that does make it a little different. Mr. Chairman. Mr Nijboer spoke about the succession scheme. He said we should take that into account. I agree with him. So when he asks whether we are going to keep it under review, I can say that we have also appointed the BOR scheme as part of the Building Blocks Committee. It is therefore dealt with in the company's follow-up facilities in general. We have therefore also tackled this point in the building blocks. Finally, I come to the question of the Committee of Inquiry. Mr Omtzigt had the question of whether the government would instruct the WRR to conduct a study on the tax mix and its consequences. I think it is a very good idea to look at a future-proof tax mix, but it is one of the six key points in our building block note, which I have agreed with your Chamber. This study shows exactly what the tax mix is, whether it is future-proof and whether it could be less disruptive and/or economically less complicated. I also explained it in more detail in the building block letter of 15 April last. I can imagine that if there are any more questions left, we will discuss them during the AO on 27 June. At the moment, it seems to me that it is a little too good to ask the WRR for that too, when we have just set up a committee of inquiry on precisely that point. Then I come to a few general questions which are also in line with this. Mr Nijboer and Mr Van Otterloo asked whether I think it is fair that multinationals do not pay taxes. I think that's the summary. I just said something about that. I think it is important that everyone, including large companies, continue to pay a fair share of the tax. Companies have to pay for their profits. If they don't pay for their profits because they don't have them, I can't say that's fair or unfair; it's the outcome of the law. It ultimately depends on why no tax is paid. It is precisely in cases where no tax is paid, for example, because there is evasion or abuse of existing facilities, that it is clear that I do wish to deal with them. Then it's not really about whether they have zero taxation anymore. Then it's just obvious that they've been avoiding taxes. At the same time, Mrs Lodders has always said that a good business environment is of course also important for all of us in our society for other reasons. Because all those companies that do pay taxes also contribute to our collective provision. Mr Snels asked for a more individual case. He was talking about a number of companies that have been heard and he was actually asking: did you know that these companies have not been paying any income tax for a long time? Mr Snels probably already knows my answer to this: I cannot say anything about individual companies. As you know, the Tax Administration implements the law and enforces it with all individual taxpayers, including large companies. He also asked whether, while we are all looking at this world a little differently and now that there is a broad-based motion, we are also going to look at the location climate for headquarters quite differently. That question just came up. Headquarters are still important. They are important, and not just because the economic image of the Netherlands can really be helped and because other activities come to large headquarters; we know that. Headquarters are often also important for follow-up investments in the same company. All in all, working in our country, converted into FTEs, 1.5 million Dutch people at multinationals; we had a discussion about this. There is also a great deal of work for SMEs as a result of the presence of these multinationals. Multinationals come to the Netherlands for a lot of reasons. We're glad. Taxation is also an important consideration. So yes, headquarters remain important. We're no different from the way we were in there. I have always said that if even a head office or a real company finally decides to do a mailbox at the back of its business premises to a tax haven, it will find me on its way again. That's actually the mantra I talk about all the time. Thus, headquarters remain important, but they too must make a proper contribution to the collective provision. I have another question from Mr Van Raan about the country-by-country reporting. It could be very important. The Netherlands has, of course, always supported in Brussels that we would do more. We believe it is important that we do not only do this nationally, but that as many countries as possible participate at the same time. But you asked me if I am in favour of making this compulsory, regardless of the fact that some sectors already have this obligation; I will come back to that later. In itself, I understand that wish. At the same time, I say that it is about accounting law. That is not my domain; that is typical of the Minister for Legal Protection. He knows how we stand in this: we think this is important and we think that this is particularly helpful, not only for shareholders but also in the social debate. But I am prepared to bring your wish to the attention of my colleague again so that he can hear it from you. You also indicated, more specifically going into the Shell company, that that would have said it wants to make its tax payment public. It is true that Shell is already obliged, on the basis of accounting law, to publish an annual report on payments to public authorities. That's because they work in the oil sector. This obligation therefore stems from the Accounting Directive, which has now been transposed into national legislation. This concerns, for example, all payments, including taxes and royalty concessions. So they're already obligated to do that. And this specific disclosure obligation applies in the extractive industry, but also, for example, to the logging of primeval forests. There are, for example, a number of sectors which already have to do something about this. There are no further commitments yet, but since 2016 we have been expanding public country-by-country reporting in Europe. Yes, I will continue to look together with Mr Van Raan at that commitment, regardless of the fact that they already have an obligation to do so. I hope they might go a little further. I think Shell and everyone else are "promise makes guilt."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u140	I've been trying to figure out whether this is indeed an interruption, but I'd like to hear it more accurately from the Secretary of State. Is he now willing to make that public country-by-country reporting mandatory in the Netherlands, in anticipation of what is going to happen anyway, with the advantage that there will be a level playing field? That's one. Two: Shell has indeed publicly said 'we are going to do so, to the satisfaction of NGOs and charities'. That is a far-reaching commitment. The question is, what is the role of the Secretary of State? He said about this in the AO that he will do so in public speeches "if appropriate and if it is to the benefit of"'. I'm just gonna add that last part. The question was also what he's going to do to make sure he's not the only one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u141	Two is actually a subject of one. Under one, Mr Van Raan asked me if I am prepared to take legal action now. We have indicated that at the moment we are mainly engaged in doing so in Europe. That is also the cabinet position. In the end, the answer to Mr Van Raan's question is whether I would like to do it nationally, that he should actually ask the person dealing with the annual accounts. That's not me, that's my colleague. I did say, however, that it is our objective that we should do so as widely as possible. I'm still guessing that we're actually gonna get something done at European level. The track record in Europe is much better at these kinds of points in recent years than it was a few years ago. I'd be happy to pass on the wish to my colleague. With regard to the second, I would point out that they already have those legal obligations, so I do not need to call on them to do so. My call is also not addressed to a specific company, but to many more companies. I think it is important that we think more about a tax code and corporate governance, including on taxes. You know that we want a little more, because I have said something about this before in a programme, and I have said it before in your Chamber. I am convinced that, sooner or later, companies in the public debate will have to tell us how they are actually opposed to their taxes and what their tax morals are. You asked for that. "'If we want to pay taxes, how do we organise our tax policy, where do we pay taxes and why?"' Things like this are going to happen sooner or later, not only because there is a directive, but also because society is asking for it. I'm sure of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u142	I can live with that answer. We'll wait and see what the Secretary of State's gonna put into practice. I'll come back to Shell's public duty. That's right. What was new and what goes on is that they have now said for the first time, in public, in a hearing, that they will do so to the satisfaction of NGOs and charities. That's what the Acts say. Of course, that goes a step further. Does the Secretary of State also recognise that this is a step further in the, let us say, 'discussion' on the public morality of companies such as Shell? Does he at least do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u143	I wasn't there, let's just say, so if they said this literally, I wish them luck. I always find it difficult to say: 'I'm going to make you very happy, but you can decide when it is'. That's actually what's happening. Look, the point is that I think Shell wants to make it clear that they want to take a step. I say, like I just did, "promise makes guilt." I think that goes for Shell, too. If they have said this, then we can look together to see whether promise is indeed guilty.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u144	Rounding off, short.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u145	Yeah, rounding up, short. It's nice to see the Secretary of State Shell's wish for success. We wish them that, too. That promise has been made very hard, in public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u146	Mr. Chairman. I'll continue with a few questions we still had about the BEPS project. Mr Van Weyenberg had questions about this. For example, he asked if it was true that the current BEPS Inclusive Framework project will end after 2020. The answer is yes, that's right. This was then set up with a fixed deadline so that results could be achieved. I think it would be wise to do that with this kind of thing. So that's done. At the same time, the mandate must be renewed. We in the Netherlands very much support that. The initial mandate of the framework is already being discussed in detail and how we could extend it for the next phase. That's also called BEPS 2.0. We are very much in favour of this. We have seen how effective it was for us not only to talk about directives in Europe, but also to make indicators here in G20-BEPS. So I think that we are in a good position to do so and that we really think that we should continue with this, even if that means adding new parts to it. We have always been constructive in this regard so far, we have said. We're gonna stay that way. The same applies to the work plan of the Inclusive Framework. I think it was Mr Omtzigt who asked for it. At least, he said more that it was okay that we went through with it. So that's what we're going to do. Mr Snels spoke a little more about the two pillars according to the OECD. It goes quite far in the technique to do that, but I think his summary of the two parts was already quite accurate. In that second part there is always a discussion. They are mainly talking about a kind of minimal effective tax. I always say, "Watch out." So I am also trying to explain to my colleagues abroad that it can still be very complicated to put that into practice and that we in the Netherlands have an alternative to that, namely withholding taxes. We're just gonna make one blacklist, and if you go up there, you're gonna get hit by our taxes. We can, but it is up to us to convince the other countries of this. It may also be that the other countries convince us that things have to be different. I have said a number of times in the Chamber that I am constructive in this, always with the aim that, if we want to tackle tax avoidance, we can do better with each other and not alone. Mr Nijboer wondered whether I really thought we were still ahead. He also mentioned the BEPS 2.0. I can do two things. "No words, but deeds," Mr Nijboer may address. At least we did something. On the basis of that blacklist, we have already taken measures that are really going to be effective. Many other countries are not there yet, so I still think that we are at the forefront of that. I also think that we are at the forefront of the MLI. We ticked a lot of crosses at the information exchange. So yes, I'm sure the OECD, too, if you asked someone from the secretariat around BEPS or OECD what role the Netherlands plays, are they dragging their feet, using a wrong translation, or are they in the vanguard? It would be said that the Netherlands is in the vanguard. That's a place on the football field where I feel at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u147	You'll have to tell me more about that some other time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u148	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u149	I hear Mr Omtzigt wants to play the front-runner. What's your place, Mr. Nijboer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u150	I was just going to say, Mr President, you better leave me on the line, because that's not gonna work out. I almost lost it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u151	Along the line.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u152	Yeah, along the line. The Secretary of State mentions a number of examples where the Netherlands is at the forefront. That is good, but it is also, of course, about whether you will be making some European agreements and also turning in a little sovereignty to tackle this world problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u153	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u154	That is, of course, quite a problem in this coalition. We know that. One yellow card follows the other, if you make a little suggestion for that. That is why I support you in doing something about it. That is also why I note that it is probably less rapid than would actually be desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u155	The reference to a yellow card is helpful with a football metaphor, so even though he was standing along the sidelines, he has now managed to draw a yellow card. I get that. That is indeed a real choice. That is actually pillar 1 of the OECD. A number of contributions were already about the choice how you want to deal with the distribution of those profits. It was said: beware, in the digital world this becomes even more complicated. That's right. So where are you gonna make a profit and who's gonna tax it? We had once devised a system for that, a lot of transfer pricing. Actually, we notice that it's quite complicated, because it still leads to undesirable outcomes. For example, if you change that system and focus more on where the profits are actually made in markets, that can also mean something for the outcome of a country. That's absolutely true. I think sooner or later you should be willing to make choices about that. That's what we need to keep talking about when we get close. You can also stand where you stand and do nothing, but then it may well be that you won't have any basis to take anything at all. I think that's much worse. So I think I support the concerns you have. In support, too, if Mr Nijboer asked me to do so, the fact that we should continue to look at this constructively and not put the heels in the sand and leave everything to the old, because then we will not get there either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u156	It's good to hear that. For that, you take and you get all the space in this room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u157	Mr. Chairman. Then I have a few creative questions to ask. Those other ones were also very creative, but one question I found very creative, I had to think about for a moment about the ethical hacker at the Tax Office. Creative would be my first judgment. But you should always be careful not to respond to creative thoughts too quickly. When it comes to testing where there are gaps, we have our coordination groups. That's really the technique we need to do that. I do not dare to say that they are always there, but as I said just now, fortunately we have a number of active thinkers. I would just like to say this: it is not just NGOs, but also the tax advisory practices and the NOB that warn us. When, for example, we come up with legislation to close something, they say: beware, here you leave a hole open. So it's not like they're just happy. They also see that a tax system should ultimately be able to work reasonably. So they're looking into that, too. There's a second thought I had in there. Now suppose we let these ethical taxhackers do that and show them: look, through this door, at the Vpb, you can come in with a very complicated article number if you do it a little handy. That's public, and you know, capital has found its way in a microsecond. We still have to fix that. That is perhaps one of the most important reasons why it will be quite difficult to do so in public: until we have closed that hole, and you know that it is not so one-two-three that the locks are really open. Anyway, the creative way of thinking, so that we have to test that, I fully underline, and fortunately we also have some very experienced people who help us with that. And maybe they're our own tax hackers. I don't know if the next thing in the block is creative, but it's in the block good to know. Mr Van Weyenberg also said that in the tax committee of the AmCham there is someone who also works in the NFIA on paper and that he had reservations about it. I think I can see that. I don't know the situation, but at first sight I think: that feels a little uncomfortable. Moreover, the NFIA is an implementation organisation of the Ministry of EZK and the responsibility lies, I think, there too. So I will send that message directly to my colleague and say that he must be able to give a satisfactory answer. At least I don't know that now; I don't know the situation either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u158	I get that. Then I would like to have a reaction to that within two weeks, including the answer to the question of whether there are any other of these types of clubs. I know, for example, that we also have such a club with British industry, in which officials are in it. If that could be transferred within two weeks, I would appreciate it very much. Because once again, there's talk in clubs like this to share experiences, I'm fine with it, but I don't think you should be a part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u159	I will pass on your question to my colleague from EZK. Then there is one final question that I have not answered, from Mr Nijboer. He said: I'd think it would be a good idea if some people, some interest groups, got some kind of entry ban from the Treasury Department. I may take it a little too faintly, but I really think that the legislation I make should ultimately be open to everyone. I've said that a lot in the Chamber. It's up to us to make sure we do that a little balanced. I know my schedule and meetings are pretty public. If you look at who I have or have not received in the past two years, you will see, and I hope NGOs will share that with you, that we certainly have not closed the door for them. We invite them to all the brainstorming sessions we have, and we make sure they have direct access. We've had Oxfam visit again recently. I cannot talk about my predecessor and his agenda, but the idea that I would keep asymmetrical agreements is, I think, not exactly the practice as it is now. I would like to remind Mr Nijboer of that. We now also have an internet consultation with every legislative proposal. We then ask everyone, all sections of society, to express their thoughts to me, because good legislation deserves input from all sides of society. Mr. Chairman. Those were my answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u160	Thank you. Is there any need for a second term? It is not mandatory, but the applicant for this debate is persisting. So I give the floor to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u161	It may be, Mr. Chairman. We had a Prime Minister who for more than a year was convinced to the depths of his fibres that the dividend tax had to be abolished. It was an irresponsible risk to the locational environment and the Dutch economy not to reduce taxes on companies. Today we hear a very different sound, actually Chamberwide. I'm pleased to hear that. You need to forge the iron when it's hot, so I'd be happy to file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas some multinationals do not pay a profit tax on their activities in the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas proposals to change this are now being developed;]] [[calls on the cabinet not to channel the proceeds of the measures to be proposed back door back to companies, but to allow us all to benefit,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Nijboer, Mr Snels, Mr Leijten, Mr Van Otterloo, Mr Van Raan and Mr Edgar Mulder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31369-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u162	Mr President, one final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the OECD is developing legislation to ensure that multinationals are subject to a minimum rate of taxation both in the digital economy and beyond;]] [[calls on the Government to wholeheartedly support this initiative,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31369-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u163	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his commitment to keep the company's succession scheme under review. There's still a lot of loopholes in that, so I'm looking forward to those analyses. I do not need a motion for a resolution because I have been given that commitment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u164	Thank you. Mrs Leijten is still making a motion. She keeps the tension in and she'll be the last to speak and then file that motion. I now turn to Mr Omtzigt of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u165	Thank you, Mr President. I just want to straighten something out. I assume that we will get a proper letter on my motion on how that leads to a separate committee and that this does not exactly go along with those building blocks. That is the motion adopted last week. I think it is very important that there should be a separate opinion on this point with a separate route. I'd like to hear about that. Mr. Chairman. For the rest, we are clearly seeing a kind of consensus here that it is good to look at fair taxation. In addition, the building block note will be discussed later. On top of that, we think it would be wise to ask for an opinion with a slightly larger helicopter view on how to proceed with taxation over the next ten or fifteen years. We are seeing great changes. That is why my group proposes that the Scientific Council for Government Policy, within the scope of their programmes and the CPB, should look together at this optimal tax mix. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that tax rates and exemptions favour certain economic activities and affect others;]] [[considers that there are not always sufficient cost-benefit assessments;]] [[calls on the Government to submit an opinion to the WRR and the CPB on the optimal tax mix, its economic and social impact and on the principles relating to capacity, equity, food security, one- and two-earner balance, single and household, debt and equity, labour-capital ratio and impacts on the climate/environment, strengthening economic growth and innovation and improving employment rates,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt, Mr Lodders and Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31369-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u166	It is very important to look at that. You can see from the list how many things we want with taxes. At the same time, we want to maintain simplicity. That is why it is good to have an opinion a little further away from practice. I am also very curious to see what this opinion on multinationals will look like in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u167	Thank you. There is another question from Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u168	That will be a comprehensive opinion. I can imagine. Have you also considered asking the ESC for this opinion? It has also issued similar opinions in the past, which formed the basis of the new tax system.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u169	I thought it would make more sense to ask the WRR and the CPB. I also suspect that we will have a number of a- and b-options. Depending on your political preference, you can move a little more in one direction or the other. I wish the ESC very much success at the moment in doing that pension reform.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u170	Thank you. Then Mr Snels from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u171	Mr. Chairman. No motion, but a determination and four very brief political conclusions. The conclusion is that after the trauma of the dividend tax and shortly after the investigation of Trouw......................................................................................................................................................................... That is an important and good debate. I'm happy with that turning point. As far as I am concerned, four very brief political conclusions follow from this debate. I put them a little sharp, but I think they're being shared pretty widely. The first political conclusion is that it is the commitment, the commitment, that on the basis of the committee that is now going to work, that this cabinet period legislative proposals are still coming to the Chamber. This means that even in this cabinet period there is still room in the burden framework. The second political conclusion is that any revenue from adjustments to the tax on profits does not go back to business. The third political conclusion is that these revenues do not go back to reducing the burden on the highest incomes either. The fourth political conclusion is that, as a matter of priority, this extra money, this extra space in the burden framework, is used to support the purchasing power of all those people who have not yet felt much in their pockets of economic growth. I would like a response from the Secretary of State to these principles, and I thank him for his answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u172	There is another question from Mr Van Raan. Short and pointy, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u173	My question concerns the third and fourth political conclusions. For GroenLinks, can the political conclusion also be that it is not going to reduce the cost of purchasing power but that it is being used for the energy transition, to counter the climate crisis?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u174	I do not rule that out entirely, but I have driven a bit from the burden of the cabinet. The coalition is sticking to that burden framework, and I understand that. At the same time, we will soon be receiving all proposals from the Cabinet on the climate agreement. I hope and expect, for example, that there will be a CO levy for large companies. As far as I am concerned, some of them are also being used for the energy transition.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u175	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u176	What preference can GroenLinks already express? Buying power or fighting climate crisis?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u177	We're a green party. Climate change is about the reason for our party's existence. This is also one of the most urgent problems that we will have to solve in the coming years, but we can only do so if we have sufficient support for this. This support also means something in terms of a fair distribution of burdens and requirements, and hence the burden and desire of economic growth.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u178	Thank you. Mrs. Lodders of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u179	Mr. Chairman. A beautiful country, a rich composition of entrepreneurs, a good locational climate and good facilities. That was the basis of my first-term input. The VVD considers it extremely important that we keep the Netherlands attractive for entrepreneurs, that the Netherlands remains that attractive country to live in and work in. On the one hand, it means cherishing our locational environment and our entrepreneurs. At the same time, I have indicated that it is also important to ask for a fair contribution in terms of taxes, not only from the people as I have outlined them, such as the nurse and the SME's, but also from large companies. I think that the cabinet and we in the Chamber have taken a number of important steps. My group is looking forward to the examination of the motion tabled by Mr Omtzigt, but also to the committee as we proposed last week. That committee is looking at concrete recommendations on how to shape that fair tax. I look forward to that, and then we will work together to ensure that we get these proposals here in the Chamber. Mr President, I would like to stick to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u180	Here's to it. Mr Mulder waived his speaking time. I call Mr Van Raan of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u181	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Secretary of State for answering the questions. Also thank you for the commitment to pass on the request regarding that public country-by-country reporting to the right rulers. He won't blame us for putting forward a motion for that. I also have a motion that was actually meant for the VAO that I couldn't participate in, so it's a bit of a catch-up motion. And Mrs Leijten will also be tabling a motion on my behalf. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Shell says it wants to do public country-by-country reporting;]] [[Whereas there is no certainty that this will provide information that has helped society;]] [[noting that many companies do not do public country-by-country reporting;]] [[calls on the government to make public country-by-country reporting mandatory,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31369-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u182	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the government is going to implement policy changes in the ruling policy in such a way that a number of companies are no longer provided with advance security for tax structures designed to avoid the tax;]] [[noting that the government does not, however, amend the legislation;]] [[noting that this still makes tax avoidance possible;]] [[calls on the government to draw up a benchmark so that it becomes clear to the Chamber and the government how many tax avoidance structures continue to exist;]] [[calls on the Government also to establish enforceable targets in this context,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31369-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u183	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u184	Thank you. Then Mr Van Weyenberg of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u185	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I look forward to the answer on the membership of the AmCham Tax Committee by a colleague of the Secretary of State. I co-signed Mr Omtzigt's motion because I think it is important for the Secretary of State to have control over the building blocks. At the same time, I always agree with the need for external advice. We can all take advantage of that. Mr. Chairman. Then two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Notes that 125 countries, including developing countries, cooperate through the inclusive framework of the OECD BEPS project to tackle tax avoidance and evasion through base erosion and profit shifting;]] [[noting that the mandate of this project runs until 2020;]] [[Whereas it is desirable to monitor the implementation of measures and the impact of these measures beyond 2020 and, where appropriate, to adopt new actions;]] [[calls on the Government to promote the extension of the mandate of, and cooperation within, the inclusive framework of the BEPS project within the EU, G20 and OECD framework,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Bruins, Mr Omtzigt and Mr Lodders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31369-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u186	I expect a lot from that sequel. Then there's the second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the first priority of this Cabinet's fiscal policy agenda 2019 is to address tax avoidance and evasion;]] [[Whereas, at the request of the Lower House, a committee will give an opinion to make the taxation of profits of multinationals fairer;]] [[Whereas it is helpful for this Committee and the government's fiscal policy agenda to have a complete overview of all deductions, tax reductions and tax arrangements in corporate tax, the associated budgetary losses and the distinction in use by large companies with a turnover of more than 750 million euros, and SMEs;]] [[invites the Cabinet to send this exhaustive summary to the Chamber as an annex to the Millions Note,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Omtzigt, Mr Lodders and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31369-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u187	I heard the Secretary of State right. Perhaps there is some phasering possible, but the list of what it is, we should at least have it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u188	Thank you. Then Mr Van Otterloo of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u189	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the answers he has given, but I still need some clarification from him. Maybe that's because it's the first time I've been working on the tax side here. Then you can ask some stupid questions. I have experience of intervention in housing companies because there is distortion of competition and through state aid. In the same way, I see people getting involved in this. I am surprised that, only on the basis of the adage that each country may have its own tax system, you can invent things that actually amount to state aid, which actually amounts to subsidised labour, and which, in fact, also create distortions of competition. I can't rhyme with those things. Shell says it might cut 500 to 700 jobs. I was wrong to have had to fire more than 1,200 people in a previous period outside the Chamber. I know how hard that is, but that's nothing compared to what's already happened to job losses. When a company such as Shell talks about the loss of 500 to 700 jobs, I say that's nothing. I wonder how we can justify that, if the EU is a body focused on transparency and market forces, then you can operate through your own rules in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u190	Thank you. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber, now with her motion, is Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u191	Mr. Chairman. There really is a new wind blowing, at least in language and tone. Whether something's actually gonna happen, we'll see. A good English proverb says you don't know how to taste a cupcake until you eat it. That also applies to this, because we have seen the retreating movement in recent years. "'We're doing an investigation into the Panama Papers, but the companies aren't allowed in"', that sort of thing. We'll see. Is it true that the committee that is now being set up on the occasion of the motion actually already existed and that the building blocks committee was future corporate tax? Is it also true that the list of external organisations does not include civil society organisations? I'd be very sorry to hear that. I would like to call on the Secretary of State to include them. Then I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that measures taken by successive governments did not have the effect of making multinationals pay the tax they owe according to the spirit of the law;]] [[noting that the purpose of the assessment of whether a tax structure and the (tax) fact complex of large companies in particular is to avoid tax payments, lies with the Tax Administration;]] [[noting that the use of an advocacy position offers multinationals and wealthy people the opportunity to reduce tax payments, even in ways not intended by the legislator;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the burden of proof that a tax structure and the factual complex are not intended to circumvent the tax payment is placed with the owner of the construction,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Leijten and Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31369-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u192	We'll go through the motions briefly and pointedly, and we'll be outside in ten minutes. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u193	If I were to do so, I would ignore a number of questions that have still been put to me. I'd like to answer that briefly, but maybe not everything. I will try to do it as briefly and as pointy as possible. Let me begin with the question that Mr Omtzigt and Mrs Leijten put at the beginning. They went into the motion and asked whether there should be a separate committee. There could be the misunderstanding that there is one committee of fiscal building blocks. There isn't one. We have a lot of parts in our system and at some point we have agreed with the Chamber that we would like to give them a different weighting. This concerns the tax mix, capital tax versus what is taxed on, for example, income and all kinds of other elements. That was five big pieces. A piece of it is very specific about corporate taxation. There is a motion on this: I want a committee to do so. Well, that independent committee was already in the plans; I want to take several groups of people into it. That committee can help me with this. I think that's in the motion. I embraced that and I stand by it. I think it's important that that committee is here. The fact that the committee is ultimately operating under the umbrella of what we are all doing anyway, I would just find it helpful, because here we are bringing everything together. You may be able to ask questions about that again, but again, I have just promised that I will send a letter. Before we talk about these building blocks, I'll come up with a letter. In this respect, I will specifically address this point: how I think it is best to do it and how I can meet the wishes of the Chamber. We have a debate on that. If you want it to be different from what I am proposing again, I think that what we have is a very good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u194	There has been quite a twist in the motion in the sense of: now it is finally going to happen, you know; finally there is going to be tax paid by the companies, and that is what the coalition wants. But here the monkey comes out of the sleeve. Here the Secretary of State simply says: we were already working on that committee; that motion fits in perfectly with that, but that committee was already there. It is a good thing that that has become clear in this debate, but then I do think that there has been a bit of a game with the idea of 'we really need to pay taxes'. So that was already in jugs and jugs and that was already put in place. Good, that it is put in place, and good that it is investigated, but then the show from last week is a bit tricked.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u195	Well, that sounds like a misunderstanding to me. I believe that the motion that was adopted last week indicated something else. There was a clear wish in that regard when it came to the distribution of taxes. There was also a very clear wish that it should be done differently in the future. I have always seen that as a serious step of the Chamber, and it now seems quite unanimous. The Chamber thinks it's important. So everything behind it is fully supported. The only question is: do you have to set up another committee next to that committee that we already have, for which we have six external partners in mind, which we are going to ask to help us do so, and also another committee from outsiders? Probably gonna be the same group of people. I said: I do not think that is the intention. At least I think so. When I supported the motion, I also said: this seems very sensible to me, because that is how we do it. I'm gonna write a letter about that. And if it turns out that the Chamber wants it to be different, then we can also talk about it more closely in the relevant AO.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u196	That was exactly the commitment I was looking for. I would indeed like a separate letter with the very precise question so that if the Chamber wishes to amend something, it can add something to it, delete something or something like that. And I want a proposal on the composition. I hesitate for a moment how public that is, because you do not want to mention too many names, if they can then be taken out again. It's up to the Secretary of State to determine how he treats it properly. Maybe we can add someone else. That's always a little more pleasant, that's possible. But he has heard very well what the Chamber's wish is, even when it comes to the mixed composition. The question of whether it will then be placed under the umbrella or not was not the essence. The essence is that proposals will then be made within a few months.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u197	That's right. I have also endorsed the very essence of the motion. Again, I also said: I will inform the Chamber in that letter. I also agree with Mr Omtzigt's last point. We must be careful not to get some kind of political weighting from all the candidates. The desire to do that balanced, we take it with us. I have heard a number of suggestions for this today. I'll write that down in the letter and he'll come to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u198	I have nothing against this M.O., but I do have one concern. There's gonna be a broader committee that's gonna think about corporate tax. There are also very fundamental discussions. I refer to the tax unit and the participation exemption. These are important discussions, but that is a little further away in time, while the motion of the coalition is about the very concrete measures that we need to take in the short term. There may be tension in that, but I do think that we should also be able to make legislative proposals that mean something in the short term, regardless of the more fundamental discussion. I'd like to see that care taken away.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u199	I have just indicated that this is a very clear wish expressed in the motion. It is just sensible that we should include a number of external partners. That is what we want, otherwise we have something that we still cannot go on with in society. There must be something out of it in which politics can ultimately make choices. I couldn't agree more. I said just now: that building block journey is not just a Wednesday afternoon commission. That's a lot of parts with a lot of people that we want to report on different things. It has also become a building block note for a reason. You mention a number of other elements which I also think are important. They're gonna join us. But one doesn't stand in the way of the other. All these things need to come up with building blocks so that we can finally make a choice. Well, you can say, if you're talking about building blocks, that sounds like something that's going on in 80 years. We have talked about this before; that is not the intention. Some building blocks are very fundamental. They're really about a new set-up of a system. We won't have one in a year. And there might be parts, building blocks that we say: we want to do something with them in concrete terms; there's a chamber motion, so let's do it. Well, that's what I'm for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u200	Thank you. I think this is a great search for how to mix different assignments without creating a proliferation of separate clubs. I'll wait for that letter with interest. I understand the Secretary of State that he wants to take a broad look at corporate tax, that he was already planning to do so. These can be things that need to be faster and more fundamental in a formation. That could be all kinds of things. In addition, due to the Parliamentary motion of the four coalition parties, there is a separate search light on the key question that multinationals simply have to pay fair taxes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u201	Yes. I'm just checking to see if I should say something to this. I think you're making your point very clear. Mr Van Weyenberg saw another question in it, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u202	Sorry, Chairman, I didn't say it right. It was the question to confirm that there is a separate search light in the wider search for the Vpb.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u203	Oh, yeah. That is what I was trying to point out to Mr Snels, and I am doing so again to Mr Van Weyenberg. So I say to Mrs Leijten: if you do something like that, perhaps we should not talk about names but also involve social bodies; that would be a good idea. I'll take it with me. Mr Van Otterloo had another question, or more of a call: how could I have seen so many things happen in the past that led to state aid? And how is it that we have a debate here that shows that some companies pay nothing at all and that this is not state aid? I believe that this is part of a surprise which has also been expressed by the Chamber earlier and which we are actually standing for here today. So, yeah, I get perfectly well where that wonder comes from. At the same time, I also say that, when it comes to really state aid-like things, it is ultimately up to the Commission. By the way, the Netherlands, or at least companies operating in the Netherlands, also sometimes get to hear about this and they also have to answer for it. The Netherlands always works generously and warmly, I would almost say, because it is important that our system does not lead to state aid. I'm getting to the motions. Then I shall begin with Mr Nijboer's first motion and a large number of others, who ask the Cabinet not to close back the proceeds, as it says, but to allow them to benefit all of us. That is in itself a fairly open wording. In principle, I think it is so, apart from all the discussions about burden frameworks and what you do with them, that you always have a sort of integrated decision-making moment. We all think that's wise. Then there will be proposals. They can cost money, they can make money, and we try to bring them together nicely, and we can make a decision on that. But with the idea that proposals should change, namely that we would apparently now have all kinds of back doors, I cannot agree. And that's put there a little bit. I think that is a mistake, and that is why I will, of course, advise against the motion. We have a very nice integrated decision-making process and I would like to keep it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u204	If it's in that back door, I'll get that back door out. That's not the point at all. The point is, of course, that we have seen with this dividend tax: that was a ridiculous measure; the cabinet must withdraw it and give it exactly one-on-one again to business. We have now had a debate in the Chamber. There also the VVD and D66... Even the VVD said, "No, that should go to the people too." I'd like to cash that in. If the Secretary of State says 'the whole Chamber has said so in the debate, but the Cabinet ignores it', then perhaps we should do it differently. I don't have a problem getting rid of that "through the back door" thing. But I do care about that statement that that's not one-on-one again...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u205	I thought that "through the back door" was quite tendentious. Look at what you, and with you a number of others, really ask the cabinet: asks that the measures should not be redirected back to companies. But again, that doesn't happen at all, we don't have to change anything for that. There is always an integral moment of decision-making. This also includes the technique of burden developments. We have made agreements on this and, of course, we are going to try to shape it in the cabinet. So I think that this is an integral decision-making moment and I really want to stick to it. That, by the way, does not rule out a lot of things that you might want to do either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u206	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u207	It's just that it's not right that you shouldn't be forced to put anything back on someone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u208	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u209	Yes, but that is of course what this debate is about today. This debate today is about paying large companies neatly, or should people cough it up? And if that is not the outcome of this debate, I would find it very undesirable. Of course there will be an integral decision-making moment, and me-this and me-that, but that is what the Chamber has said. So I will take that sentimental comment out of my mind; I will consult with the co-sponsors, but that must be the main message of this debate, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u210	Once again, I agree with what we are talking about here today, and I think that has happened very well and solidly. But some sort of motion transfer, that it should not be thought through an integral decision-making moment, I simply find unwise. At any moment, at a time when we have that decision-making moment ahead of us, we simply need to be able to adapt our policies to that. So I'm gonna keep dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u211	Does the government, like me, see that, according to this motion, it becomes impossible to channel the money that comes in when multinationals start paying more taxes back to, for example, small or innovative companies, which are now paying taxes?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u212	Yes, I think that the latter is precisely the fear that Mr Omtzigt has. You can't think "'it can go back to business"' anymore and we don't agree with that. So I see Mr Omtzigt's reading too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u213	The Secretary of State didn't go into my conclusions, but they're kind of connected with this. I didn't do it on purpose in a motion because I also know and understand that integral decision-making moment. However, I assume that the Secretary of State has heard the breadth of the Chamber: not back to large business, not to the highest incomes, but to use it to support the purchasing power of those who have not yet felt economic growth in their pockets. I think that is a broad starting point for the whole Chamber. I assume the Minister has heard that and will take it to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u214	I understand that there is now another attempt to bring that motion in by saying: in view of the debate, you can see that the whole Chamber... It really isn't. I think that the whole Chamber finds that at least I have read the motion that we should look for a different, fair distribution. I said that this is important, because it is also part of the agenda that I myself have. This motion deals directly with the way in which we organise our decision-making and I am not in favour of changing it. That's why I don't recommend the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u215	I think the term "all" covers everyone. This means both businesses and citizens. A proper distribution must be found for this. But this motion is about the fact that the money does not remain one-on-one, as happened with the dividend tax, in that one jar to redistribute it there. All of them are. That is also the big business that has to pay more, and that is also the smaller companies that can take advantage of it. But it is mainly the citizens, and they are still in the majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u216	The Chamber has budgetary law and the Secretary of State always makes us a proposal. We can then try to scrape away a few nickels or quarters somewhere for a good cause, for which we have worked hard and for which we have lobbied. But getting out of here, if it's okay, just get extra income. Now we all know what the rules are: go, repayment of sovereign debt. But we also see that there are major social problems. What we are doing here is giving a little direction: if there are extra income, because we are going to pay a little more tax, then we are all going to go about it and then it has to be for the benefit of all of us. That is actually the most friendly request you can make as an opposition.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u217	It also applies to the national budget: it belongs to all of us and to all of us. That is indeed at the heart of the issue. This motion is, once again, very strong in the way it is. If there is an integral decision-making moment of all the measures we are going to propose, both on the revenue side and on the expenditure side, then we want to bring it together neatly. And I think we are doing this in a very good way, and the Chamber has a role to play in this. We all agree on that. This motion would not be necessary, because we all think so. This is really about something else. You can try to dissect it semantically by saying that "of all of us" includes business, but of course that is not the thrust of the motion. The thrust of the motion is that if you want to impose a burden on business in the near future, it should not be allowed to go back to business. Again, I think that's a wrong... That's what the motion says, and that's what I'm reading here, and that's why I'm not telling her.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u218	If I understand correctly, the Secretary of State says: if you are afraid that every euro that I collect from a few large multinationals always goes back to those big multinationals, don't be afraid, because I'm not going to do that at all; I'm going to look at everything in the decision-making process and nothing is certain. Anyone who thinks it's going to those companies automatically will answer no.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u219	No. It wasn't, and it should never be. That's why I think... All right, well, I think I made my point. Then I come to the second motion, the motion in part No. 16 by Mr Nijboer. It says that the OECD is discussing these two pillars and I therefore believe that the government should wholeheartedly support the initiative to introduce a minimum rate of taxation. That is, in a sense, a little handy from Mr Nijboer, because that is exactly the essence of what we discussed in the previous debate. So we are not just in favour of a minimum tax rate because we see all kinds of problems. For us, it is important that ultimately all companies pay taxes at a fairly fair level. This includes, for example, what we do. We make the choice that if money is diverted somewhere to tax havens, we reserve the right to raise it. That is a bit different from a minimum tax rate, so yes, we are constructively involved in discussing such discussions, but to support the introduction of such a rate wholeheartedly, that will be understood by Mr Nijboer really goes a bit too far, so I would advise against this motion. Then I have a third motion...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u220	One question from Mr Nijboer, because I really want to go through it point-by-point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u221	I don't think all those words in the vein of 'I'm running first'' are worth much. We were just talking about locking back; Dijkhoff goes even further than this D66 Secretary of State. And now he's betraying another motion that had really put some shit on the dike.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u222	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u223	Nice try, but of course this is not very credible. I said it's not like you can only lead the way if you're at a minimum rate. You can lead in a lot of other ways, and I've indicated how we do it. This was a little bit of an extension of what I really do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u224	It's okay. The motion in part No. 17.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u225	Then I'm at the third motion, the motion-Omtzitzit c.s. in piece No. 17. This is a request for advice from the WRR and also from the Planning Office. I've been chewing on that for a while. In itself, you can always ask for advice, why not: even more people who think along are okay. I do not, however, think, even if only because the WRR itself is about its own work programme, that this will be faster or could lead to new insights in a more timely manner. We are continuing with what we are doing at a rapid pace and I have nothing against it if the WRR thinks something about it at some point, if they already decide to pay attention to it. But I would like to warn you that I cannot force the WRR to put something on their agenda that should be finished in six months, because that is not how it works. However, having said that, and bearing in mind what I just said, I will leave this motion to the House's discretion. Then I come to the Van Raan motion on part No. 18. Actually, he's saying in that one more time what we've just discussed. He wants the government to make a public country-by-country reporting mandatory. I have already said that it is not the cabinet's commitment to make this national obligation first. The commitment is precisely to find a solution in Europe. Mr Van Raan knows that, so he won't be surprised that I am deceiving this motion for a resolution for that reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u226	Thank you. A question from Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u227	All understanding; the WRR does not deliver reports in six months. There was no time limit in this motion either, but if it is adopted, I assume that a request is made to CPB and WRR to see how it can be implemented. I understand that there are modalities for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u228	That is also stated in the motion: 'Ask the government for an opinion', 'I do not think the word'request for an opinion' is correct, but I will leave that for a moment, and the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u229	Mr Van Raan on his motion, briefly and concisely.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u230	Yes, of course, because the Secretary of State has also promised that he will at least pass on requests to see what is possible, I am going to continue my motion anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u231	At the request of Mr Van Raan, I propose his motion (31369, No. 18). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u232	Then we'll get to the motion in part No. 19, also by Mr Van Raan. It actually wants a benchmark with settleable goals, so that it becomes clear what to do. We have talked about this extensively before. I believe that a motion has already been adopted by Mrs Leijten and Mr Van Weyenberg, who is actually asking for exactly the same thing, namely that we should monitor the effects and that I should also refer to that motion when discussing the forthcoming Tax Plan. I therefore reject this motion because it has already been requested in a motion which has already been adopted. Then the motion-Van Weyenberg c.s. in piece No. 20, which calls on me on the BEPS to call again for an extension of the mandate. I have just indicated that I think that is very good. I see this as something that is helpful and leave it to the Court to decide the same way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u233	Mr Van Raan still has his motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u234	In view of what has been said by the Secretary of State, I do not rule out the motion in part No. 19 are moving in.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u235	But not yet. You let it float above the market. We're going to have an exciting weekend together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u236	Mr. Chairman. Then I'll move on to the motion in part number. 21, also by Mr Van Weyenberg and a number of other signatories. I think we have also discussed this before. It is good to show more what it can mean, including the Vpb figures on attack control. He is actually asking for this to be done as soon as possible, with the Millions Note. As I have already said in the debate, I am absolutely committed to this effort. We want to speed up. At the same time, I can't break iron with my hands. In the end, the figures we're talking about have to be right. I see it as an effort obligation. If I have anything of an intermediate position, I'll say something about it in a letter. All in all, I agree that this is going to be important, so I would like to give a ruling on this too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u237	You have it in the pocket, Mr. Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u238	The balloons and the pendulums will be hung. The fact that it is so complicated also shows to me why it is so important to draw it up. Apparently, it's not as unambiguous as you might expect at first sight. I'd appreciate it if we had some sort of gross list of measures, without numbers, around the Millions Note. No one has been kept to the impossible, but I would be extremely happy if we had the numbers when we deal with the Tax Plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u239	Here too, planning, which is already quite ambitious, is in the first quarter of 2020. I understand the hunger for numbers. I always have my own. I cannot go beyond the commitment I have just mentioned. If it's not there, it's not there. Nevertheless, it is extremely important to get an insight into that, so I will do my utmost to have things ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u240	Then motion to part No. 22.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u241	The motion in part No. 22 is a very complicated motion. It is actually a major change in the way we put our tax systems together. The taxable person must, however, continue to make a correct and complete declaration. That already gives a lot of room for the tax inspector to find some of that. This major change of legislation, which we cannot yet see, is not in our policy intentions, so I will not recommend this step.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u242	Thank you. A brief question from Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u243	The committee that has been set up is going to look at everything. Could it not look at this, at what the possibilities and objections are?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u244	I don't think that's wise. I have just said about that committee that there are all kinds of things we are going to investigate. One of the important elements of this is how the Vpb is dealt with here, with its distribution and honesty. It has just been said that I have already explained that we have to be careful not to put so many cars on it that that thing will not be ready until 2021. We need speed at this point. This question is really different: how do we deal with the way we set up our tax system and what are the rights and obligations of the people who have to report it, citizens, businesses and that sort of thing? That is a completely different discussion from the one we are having today about the way the Vpb is paid for. The only thing I can see is that it's a super-large project that I at least have no capacity for right now and do not prefer. Nor do I think it is entirely appropriate for the discussion we had today. That's why I'm betraying her at least now. But if there are any other ideas to give that more hands and feet, I would like to hear that I would like to see Mrs Leijten's future.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u245	Rounding up. Short, pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u246	The Secretary of State says that he wants to hurry up with that committee, but that he still offers us the opportunity to comment on the composition of the AO Fiscal policy agenda. Is it true that the committee has already been set up and that it will meet on Monday?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u247	We have, as I have just said, all kinds of committees within that building block route. One of the committees that we have in mind is a committee that is going to help us with the Vpb. That is why we have asked a number of people, outsiders, to watch. You seem to know from one of the people present that we have them together on Monday. That was also the time when I was not myself, but we would have liked to see if these Members could see a role for themselves there. That's absolutely true. That's exactly what we're saying here. You are asking whether this committee should look into all these other things, and I would say that I do not think that is appropriate. We really want these people to do things. Then there is the question you are asking whether I am going to ask who should be in it. Mr Omtzigt suggested the same thing. That is where I think we would have come to the conclusion that before we give the order, I am going to send a letter about what we are going to do there. I'm not gonna make some kind of political weighting of all the people we have for that. I really don't think it's wise to do that here in the Chamber. I have said, and I do, that we are really going to think about a balanced committee. I have already said to Mrs Leijten that there would probably also be people who are not always positive about cabinet policy. In short, there are also critical thinkers in it. That's what I'm gonna stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u248	I know now that that committee will actually meet next Monday...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u249	Mr President, it is not yet a committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u250	... and I do not have the guarantee that this includes civil society organisations. If I had known that earlier, I would have tabled a motion to ask the Chamber to pronounce: we still think it is important that there are civil society organisations in it. The Secretary of State says he will think about it, but that committee is already meeting. I do not want to look at it with suspicion, but it is said that the Chamber can still think about it. But that's not really possible. I find that a little uncomfortable. I have heard the Secretary of State say that he wants it to be balanced and that he will listen to civil society organisations. Then he should just arrange it, and not organise a first meeting without presenting it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u251	I'm gonna say again, there's no commission yet. Those people... Again, I don't want to talk about names. We have a list of people from whom we think they could do well. We haven't asked them yet. So that committee isn't here yet. Maybe these people say, "I have better things to do than that." Of course, we already had people in mind who would think along anyway. Then came the motion, which says we should turn it into a committee. I thought, "Well, what a good idea, let's do it." And I thought, couldn't we ask these people who are already thinking along for that? Now is not the time; that moment is yet to come. I have nothing to hide at all at this point and I don't have to be shy about it at all, because that's just the way it is. I hope that we can get these people to join us and that, if necessary, we can also include people from whom we can also think that they can help us with this. That's what we're gonna do, and I'm gonna write a letter about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u252	That's the commitment I was looking for. There's no committee yet. That committee's coming up. And those outsiders, those independent thinkers, are not only in sounding board groups or external contacts, but are on that committee. It must be a limited commission. This includes a number of officials, but also a number of people who think very independently, preferably from science or from elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u253	I hear these wishes. They've come to me in six different ways before. And I tell you every time I get it, because it's important. So that's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u254	I have paid tribute to that motion, and I shall stand by it. But I do get the uncomfortable feeling that there is already a committee. I see the Secretary of State sighing now, so I have to say it very precisely. The coalition has all invented words for this. People have already been visited and people are already being targeted. The subject would already be examined, but a motion would add a little bit more to it, whereas nothing actually changes. If that's the way it is, I do feel a little bit like we're being fooled. I hope that will not be the case at the end of the day. We should not sit here and talk a little bit about it when the coalition already knows something is happening, a motion is being tabled and this is actually happening. It doesn't have to be that you kind of take it with you, but it doesn't change anything. That can never be the outcome of such a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u255	I fully agree with Mr Nijboer. I think something has changed since the adoption of that motion. So that's changed, and we're gonna work on that. I find it almost regrettable that this mistrust arises, because I think it was an important moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u256	I would like to say that I do not endorse the summary as put forward by Mr Nijboer. I would like to mention this here, because otherwise the debate would go out in a very strange way. This is really not the spirit of this debate and of all the steps we have taken in the past period.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u257	So far. I thank the Secretary of State for his presence today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u258	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-11.u259	We shall vote on the motions on Tuesday. I'm suspending until 6:45. Then we're gonna start with the VAO Police. So that's 15 minutes earlier, 6:45 p.m.
