ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u1	The next item is the proposal for a law of Mr Raemakers amending the Childcare Act in order to encourage parents to choose between children's centres which may or may not allow children who do not participate in the national vaccination programme, Section 35049. I would like to welcome the initiator. He is supported in box K by Mrs Sabeth de Boer, policy officer at the D66 Group. I would also like to welcome the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment and the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport, whom I have not yet mentioned. Maybe he'll come in later. Both Secretary of State will act as advisor to the Chamber in the examination of this bill. Today we are discussing the first term of office. The continuation of this legal process will be planned in consultation with the initiator.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u2	I now give the floor to Mr Gijs van Dijk on behalf of the PvdA Group. And the Secretary of State is coming in now. Welcome!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As the first speaker, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Raemakers, because I know from my own experience what it is like to have an initiative legislative proposal in preparation. I announced it in preparation and last year with the same Secretary of State. So I know how much work it takes and how much time it takes. You get fantastic support from employees, but you still have to do it all yourself. So all the compliments, including for speed, and thank you for letting us talk about that now. The initiator has chosen a very important topic, which you might have thought a few years ago: the vaccination of young children in the Netherlands is well organised; we have a National vaccination programme that works, because fortunately children are no longer sick. We may be incredibly happy about that, but something has arisen in society. Concerned parents have risen, wondering if there are any adverse effects on vaccination. In addition, we know a permanent group in the Netherlands that makes a different choice from his own religion. But that group has grown, precisely because there has been some kind of doubt. For the Labour Party, every young child must be able to grow up in a healthy and safe way. I remember when I had a young boy, I was very worried and thought at every table leg and edge: oh, there goes his head against it! That you're on the bike and at some point you had never thought about it... think: maybe I should put on my son a helmet. I didn't do all that, but those are real concerns you have as a parent, especially as a young parent. Especially when it's your first child, you're constantly checking to see if it's safe enough. This is also part of the development as a parent. At least I learned with my son that you just have to give him some space, and if he comes home with a bruise every now and then, then he's learned something from it. But when it comes to getting and suffering from a serious disease, you're talking about a completely different security risk. A safety risk that you cannot overlook as a parent and for which we have fortunately developed a good program in the Netherlands, allowing us to ensure that all children in the Netherlands grow up in a healthy way and do not get sick. But there is a danger now, because the vaccination rate is under pressure. The initiator rightly has concerns about the places where young children meet; the childcare is, of course, the place where children from 0 to 4 years of age interact with each other. There have already been two or three outbreaks at childcare centres. There is a danger that children who are not allowed to be vaccinated, children up to 14 months of age, will become ill because of a choice made by another parent for her or his own child. That is a very worrying development. The Labour Party believes that the safety and health of the child is always paramount. Therefore, in order to ensure the health of each child, it is important for the government to ensure that the vaccination rate goes up again and that the standard is that a child should not become ill because of the choice made by the parent of another child. I have four questions which I would like to put to the initiator and to the two State Secretarys. The first one. The initiator chooses to give child care information on whether or not a child has been vaccinated, where the location or centre itself has to consider whether or not to allow it. But is it not, even in line with the Vermeij Committee and the advice we have received, the right government to set a standard? Why didn't the initiator choose not to give childcare that choice and simply say that every child who goes to the shelter should be vaccinated? That is also the question to the two Secretary of State. They argue in a cabinet response to the Vermeij committee that they will deal with this as a matter of priority, but does that also mean that the initiator is now submitting a good law, which we also support, but that the cabinet is going to go a step further? That step forward is actually even better. I'd like to hear a response from the two Secretary of State. The second point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u4	Mr Van Dijk first said that the government should be the one to set the standard. I very much agree with that. Then he says: we are going to support this proposal. That's a little bit off. The proposal put forward by the author, Mr Raemakers, is precisely that the daycare centres should set the standard. How can you say on the one hand that the government must set the standard and, on the other hand, support the petitioner who says that nurseries are going to set the standard?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u5	Thank you for the question I think is right. We support the initiator, but we do know that the government should take an extra step. We cannot predict the future and we do not know what the coalition thinks about this internally and whether they are going to move in a clear direction. We'll call on the coalition to do that. But at least you'll have a first step. We'll give the childcare sites the information. But you heard me right, I want the government to set the standard. In principle, I do not want this choice to lie with the childcare centres. But if the cabinet does not take that step, at least we have taken the first step towards transparency, so that parents and childcare centres can make their own decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u6	But critics and experts and scientists are saying that this law, however well-intentioned, could be counterproductive. It could simply mean that we are getting a harder separation between nurseries where 100% is vaccinated and nurseries where a relatively lower number of children are vaccinated because those children are no longer able to go to another place. So that's exactly the opposite of what you're getting. You set the standard at daycare, but you run the risk of creating fireplaces. If an infection hits there, there'll be a lot more casualties. This is contrary to the objective which I believe the PvdA should also have, namely to protect all children in childcare.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u7	The aim is to protect all children in childcare, absolutely; hence my input. There is a possibility that you might, for example, be in Amsterdam Oud-Zuid or in the bible. I do not just mention these examples, because that is where this discussion is going to be full of reception centres where you have to go as a non-vaccinated child. That is a very undesirable development. I would add that there will also be a lot of locations that we know are safe. Better safe than sorry in that case. But I agree with the SP, actually we should take the step that the government sets the standard.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u8	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u9	Mr. Chairman. My second question is why the initiator only opts for childcare and not for the host parents. The Vermeij Committee also advises to do something as a government for all types of care from 0 to 4 years. You should set a standard there. The third question is mainly addressed to the two State Secretarys. We received a call from the Vermeij committee to look at the lower limit of the vaccination rate. RIVM has also said something about this, namely that they cannot determine, on the basis of scientific data, for example, whether 90% or 95%. They're playing the ball back to the government. RIVM states that if necessary, the government must set the standard. Do the Secretary of State perhaps have an own standard in mind which they consider to be at least the lower limit that we as a government set? My third point concerns workers. In theory, it may also be the case that childcare workers have not been vaccinated and may also pose a danger. Can the initiator respond to this? Mr. Chairman. Finally, I am particularly curious about the timing of the cabinet. That is my fourth point, and that is a question for the two Secretary of State. We have just discussed that the initiator is making a good proposal, but that it would actually have been better if a proposal had come from the government. I think the initiator finds that in his heart, too. The cabinet indicated that it should be dealt with as a matter of priority. When can we expect a proposal from the cabinet, so that this initiative may no longer be necessary? After all, it is up to the government to set the standard that is necessary here. That's what we have a government for, and that's what we call it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u10	Thank you, Mr. Gijs van Dijk. I now give the floor to Mr Hijink on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me also begin by thanking the initiator and his support for the work they have already done. There will undoubtedly be a lot of work to be done, because that is what happens when you submit an initiative law. I always think it is very good that Members take the trouble to do so. I am also very pleased that we are here today to have this debate, although I may not agree with the solution chosen by the author. But we're gonna talk about that extensively. Mr. Chairman. According to the World Health Organisation, the vaccination limit should be 95% to prevent and eradicate highly contagious diseases such as measles, but unfortunately in recent years the Netherlands has not been able to achieve that percentage. A falling or low vaccination rate may not sound that serious, but with a falling vaccination rate, the risk of dangerous infections, of high-risk diseases, including diseases that can kill you, will increase. This, of course, only makes the urgency of this problem clearer. All over Europe, the number of outbreaks of fatal infectious diseases is increasing. Since January 2018, there have been measles outbreaks in 47 countries in Europe. 100,000 people were infected in these outbreaks. 60,000 people ended up in the hospital and more than 90 of them have unfortunately died. Now these are figures and statistics, but when it comes to the major health risks we face, I am thinking in particular of the discussions we have had as a Chamber in this building with victims, with people who have become ill and have fortunately recovered or have partially recovered, but also with relatives of patients who have died from these terrible diseases. I am thinking, for example, of Mother Meggy, who was very brave on television telling her story about how an infection with meningococcal bacteria put an end to her daughter's life Sammie. We have also spoken here with parents who have lost a child and with young people who have suffered life-long damage because they had not been vaccinated or could not yet be vaccinated against diseases that are very dangerous. We must make every effort to protect the health of all children in our country. That is also the constitutional task of the government. But then, Mr. Chairman. Mr Raemakers' proposal concerns an amendment to the Childcare Act. The petitioner wants transparency in the sector to be promoted. He wants daycare services to be able to choose whether or not they allow children who have not been vaccinated at their location. You can label it as a profit that the daycare centers that children can refuse. The question is whether this is new. I would like to receive a response from the government, but also from the author. What exactly is new? It's possible now, isn't it? It happens in some places, too. Can the author explain why this proposal is actually being tabled if he wants to deal with something that is already possible? At an earlier stage, the SP raised objections to Mr Raemakers' proposal. As far as we are concerned, the law is inadequate and does not have the right objective. This is also established by the Council of State. It notes that the final problem is a falling vaccination rate and not a lack of choice. According to the Council of State, the law must be considered in the light of vaccination policy. The SP wholeheartedly agrees with that. By taking the freedom of choice of parents and transparency in the sector as the starting point, D66, the proposer in this case, prefers private choice over the importance of public health. This importance concerns the protection of all children and child care against dangerous infectious diseases. I would ask the applicant if he can explain that choice again, because with his choice to explicitly not take the law's objective of increasing the vaccination rate, the applicant is taking a great risk as far as I am concerned with the SP. I have just had that debate with Mr Van Dijk: if, as a result of this law, parents will choose child care with purely vaccinated children even more specifically, then at the same time there will also be locations with a much higher number of unvaccinated children. Children of deniers and doubters will only be able to go there. This, of course, increases the risk that a disease can be caught much faster at these locations and, unfortunately, can cause more victims. We must prevent such fires, if you want to protect the health of all children. That is also what the various experts have said in response to this law. I ask the petitioner if he shares these concerns. How does his proposal aim to prevent unvaccinated children from being concentrated on a limited number of reception sites? And does he realize that his market-oriented and consumerist approach clashes with the fundamental debate to be held here, namely how to protect all children in our country from the dangers of infectious diseases? I would also like to hear the opinion of the government, of both directors, on this. Mr. Chairman. The author of this law threatens to get himself into legal trouble. He wanted the childcare centres to be able to pursue a more explicit policy of refusal on vaccinations. Such a refusal policy may be at odds with the right to equal treatment. The Council of State makes this a major point in the package leaflet to this law. I quote from this: 'The refusal of unvaccinated children must not constitute a prohibited distinction on the basis of religion, belief or any other protected basis within the meaning of the General Law on equal treatment', says the Council of State. It is therefore permissible to make an indirect distinction. You may, but only if the difference in treatment serves a legitimate purpose. That's what the College of Human Rights writes. There is, of course, that goal. There's a legitimate purpose, just not in your law. The legitimate objective is to protect public health, the rights and freedoms of others by increasing the vaccination rate to protect children's health. The point is, of course, that the petitioner has clearly not made this legitimate objective of protecting public health, the health of all children, the aim of his legislative proposal. There's a problem. He chooses transparency and freedom of choice. That in itself, as far as the SP and the Council of State are concerned, is not the most convincing argument to distinguish on the basis of belief or belief. Mr. Chairman. The applicant indicated that it would prefer to take light measures first and to place the responsibility and choice at the children's centres themselves. In the event of insufficient effectiveness, he states that more binding measures must be taken. That is a line that the SP Group supports. After all, nobody is waiting for unnecessary urge or compulsion at the point of vaccinations. In fact, my group would like to see us not having this debate at all and that we would not have a problem with a stabilising or possibly falling vaccination rate. We would rather not have a problem with that, but it would be very naive to wait quietly until things get right. I therefore ask the applicant if he considers that lighter measures are not effective. Perhaps the government can also answer that question. At what point does he think that more urge is needed in vaccinations? And is it wise to wait for legislation in this context until the moment when it is? Or is it wiser to prepare legislation now, so that it can enter into force immediately if necessary? How long do we want to wait for legislation to be drawn up? I'll put that question to the cabinet, too. Mr. Chairman. There is another objection to the proposal tabled by Mr Raemakers. He sets transparency and freedom of choice in the sector as the main objective of his law, as I said. Although this is its objective, the law can ultimately have a very different effect, which is far more far-reaching. After all, the daycare centres are given, or unintentionally, a certain responsibility in the vaccination policy in our country, without the same rules being laid down by law for all daycare centres. That is very strange and, in my view, not good either, because serious decisions which nevertheless affect the protection of public health must not be left to private sectors, such as childcare. If we do make other demands on childcare, for example on the installation of stair gates, the closing of electrical sockets and the number of staff to be present per group in order to ensure that all children can stay safe and well, why do we leave such a serious consideration of whether or not to allow vaccinated children to stay in the sector itself? I can't explain that. It does not serve the sector either, but it does not serve the protection of all children in care. I ask the author if he can respond to that argument. Mr. Chairman. Recently, the Committee on Childcare and Vaccination, commissioned by the Cabinet, has sought solutions to address parents' concerns about the situation in childcare, in the light of the decreasing vaccination rate. This committee, too, strongly notes that the primary responsibility for taking measures under vaccination policy lies with the government. I hear Mrs. Agema sneeze. Cheers, Mrs. Agema! Here we go again. Are the meds back up? Oh, she's got them again. I'm completely distracted, Mr. Chairman. Responsibility for measures under vaccination policy lies with the government and not with childcare. The cabinet actually writes that in its response last week. I quote: although the social problem is reflected in childcare, it is a public task at the heart of the matter. That's what both Secretary of State wrote in their letter from last week. It goes without saying, of course, that the SP is very much in favour of this. The recommendations made by this Vermeij committee, and which the cabinet itself in fact claims to follow, are sensible. As long as the vaccination rate stabilizes or even improves, a legal obligation to vaccinate in child care is not necessary and, above all, not desirable. Other measures, such as better information, the fight against ghost stories and good conversations with doubters, may then be sufficient. The SP has always supported the government's plans in this respect. However, should the risk of infection grow and the vaccination rate fall below a critical lower limit, it is obvious to make participation in the National vaccination programme mandatory for all children going to the care facility. That says not only the Vermeij committee, but also many experts we have heard in recent months. Mr. Chairman. The SP therefore considers it necessary to change the objective and the elaboration of the proposed law. We have tabled an amendment to this law which provides that daycare centres and host-parent care facilities may only accept children participating in the National vaccination programme if the vaccination rate actually falls and falls below a critical lower limit. We therefore follow the advice of the Committee on Childcare and Vaccination, which has just issued it, and in fact also the principles of the cabinet. For the SP, this amendment is the elaboration of a crucial supplement. We cannot live with a law that carries the risk of a separation between nursery homes with purely vaccinated children and, on the other hand, nursery homes with high levels of unvaccinated children. This may serve the transparency that Mr Raemakers is seeking, but it does not serve the public's interest: public health and children's health.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u12	I have a very substantive question with regard to the amendment. Indeed, the Vermeij Committee has written a report on which a reaction has come from the cabinet. A distinction is made between a green, an orange and a red scenario. I now understand that the amendment aims to prepare the legislation in terms of timing, in order to be able to move quickly when the critical limit is reached. I have a substantive question on that. The amendment refers to a large-scale committee which then has to decide. Does the SP think that we have that situation at the moment? We're already in the orange scenario. Is this amendment aimed at moving as quickly as possible to that overall obligation or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u13	No. That is what I have just tried to say. I would prefer not to take further measures if this is not necessary. However, it is not up to the SP Group and certainly not to myself to determine whether or not we have reached that critical limit. We have the science, the RIVM and the Health Council for that. We have a lot of sensible people who can give a ruling on this. Our proposal, including in our amendment, is that a committee in which such experts and scientists are present should come up with a well-behaved opinion. Then it is up to the government to decide. In the end, of course, it is a political decision whether to take such a measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u14	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u15	Mr. Chairman. Our amendment also provides for the law of the petitioner the legitimate objective currently lacking in the law, namely to pursue a policy of refusal based on the protection of public health, and specifically the health of all children in care. We do not believe that we should wait for the adoption and implementation of measures until we have fallen through that border. You can just be late. And maybe it isn't necessary at this point to make an urge, but you better have the instrument ready in case you need it. Strangely enough, the author himself has proposed this; that is something I should like to say. On the day in July when the Vermeij Committee came up with its research and proposed that we should organise precisely what is in our amendment, Mr Raemakers said in the newspaper: now that the Vermeij Committee advises the Cabinet to set a minimum threshold for vaccination in childcare, we see this as a reason to add this measure to our legislative proposal. Then I thought, "That's a good case." As far as we are concerned, it is already code red, says Mr Raemakers. He said that in July. If you use such big words, then the question is where the proposal is. If you're in the paper screaming murder and fire that it's code red, where's the proposal? I think we should be careful about this. When you use such big words in a debate that is sensitive, you have to operate carefully. Then you can't say on the one hand that you're going to change the initiative law within a day after the advice comes and then sit in box K months later and haven't written that adjustment down. I don't think that's possible. Why make so much noise in the newspaper and not actually come up with that proposal now? Can I at least assume that Mr Raemakers will now support our amendment? That is in line with what the Vermeij Committee says. In fact, it is also in line with what the cabinet says it is working on. It is also exactly in line with what Mr Raemakers said in the newspaper on 1 July. We think it would be wise to set up a committee in the near future, including the RIVM, the Health Council and other scientists, in order to identify the critical lower limit, which could include additional measures. I would ask both Secretary of State to respond to this proposal. Can they get on with that yet? I am not asking for this because we want it so badly, but because it may be necessary to prevent further outbreaks of serious diseases. For this reason, my party, the SP, will not wait. We will work together with the VVD, with Mr Hermans, to draw up an initiative law which, in line with what the Vermeij committee and the cabinet say, will prepare further proposals in case it is necessary. If a critical lower limit is reached, then there are proposals. So we will come up with an initiative law and we will undoubtedly come up with a lot of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u16	On that last point, I have a more procedural question. There is an amendment from the SP to this initiative legislative proposal. Then how does that relate to your own initiative proposal, together with the VVD, that there is still to be?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u17	We're just gonna wait and see the reaction later. But I also have a political antenna. You won't be surprised. My feeling is that this amendment is not long-lived. I don't think we should wait. We shouldn't be dragging our feet. We just need to keep this on the agenda and make sure that the right measures are in place when necessary. It may well be that, in my opinion, the amendment is not going to make it. I want us to just go through with it. That is why we take the initiative together with the VVD to continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u18	I find this a little complicated, because I have studied the amendment and have just asked a substantive question about it. It now seems that the SP says in advance that this amendment is not going to make it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u19	If you're gonna support it, we're gonna have a new situation. But my hunch is that that's not the case. Anyway, if you say you're very willing to support it, I'd like to take another round here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u20	My question also has to do with the point of the SP on timing. Because there is a difference in the time it takes to deal with an initiative proposal or an amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u21	I don't understand the question, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u22	We can soon vote on the amendment, but we still have to wait for the initiative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u23	In a way, that's true. But if you say now that you want to support the amendment; be my guest! I've been poking around and I'm trying to tell you that there's not a lot of support for it right now. I think it's a shame to wait. That is why we take the initiative together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u24	I also believe that RIVM and the Health Council should advise us, but they indicated a few days ago that they could not. That actually puts the whole design, the whole construction of Mr Hijink in the water, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u25	No, that is not true, because RIVM has said: we cannot name one number on which you can say that the border has been reached and you must take such a measure. That's what RIVM said. There is also something to be said for that, because it makes a big difference, for example if you go regional and see where you are going to picture the vaccination rate. If you go to places in the bible or get to Urk, you will already reach a vaccination rate that everyone here thinks is frighteningly low and is therefore a problem. RIVM has said that it cannot at the moment mention one hard number on the basis of which the Secretary of State can then decide to proceed with an obligation. It has also said: you can do research in a different way and set certain values. In the end, it is a political decision of the government to proceed, on the basis of that information, to introduce or not introduce an obligation to participate in the National Vaccination Programme. So not one number, but a combination of numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u26	RIVM indicates that this is very complicated at the moment, because there are large differences in the country between diseases and their consequences. But it has not said that it can in the long term. In your amendment, proposals and thoughts, that critical lower limit is very important, but it cannot be established, at least not in the short term. How are you gonna fix that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u27	In my opinion, the most important thing RIVM has said is that you cannot ask us to designate one number on the basis of which you can proceed to far-reaching legislation. I understand that, because that will always be a political consideration. You cannot say: because the vaccination rate in the bible is now too low, we are going to introduce far-reaching measures for the whole country. You will have to look at the vaccination rate as a whole, at the different degrees of vaccination associated with the different diseases, the relevant numbers and the combination thereof. In the end, you will have to reach a political judgement on the vaccination rate at that time. It's complicated. You can ask the Health Council, RIVM and other experts about this, but in the end the ball is back with the government to say: okay, we have this information now and on that basis we decide that now is the time to proceed with such a measure. You can't just point out one number, and I'm not looking for that either, and I'm saying, it's 94.6% now and so... It's too flat.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u28	But then we will slide down to the level of a banana republic, when, ultimately, politics will decide where the border should be. It seems to me that only professionals can do that. And if they can't, it's still a very complicated situation. You can't say: then the Ministry has to make a decision. I don't think that's possible at all. I think Mr. Hijink's proposals in that respect are extremely vulnerable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u29	I understand the point, but it's incredibly complicated. The opposite is also very strange: we would agree that RIVM can decide on its own when the House of Representatives and the Government will take very far-reaching measures. Wouldn't the world be too small? Imagine if we wake up on a Monday morning and the RIVM has established that we have gone through a border, which suddenly brings into force legislation that we as a Chamber and as a government have nothing to say about. That's the other extreme. So you have to find a way based on advice from the RIVM, by the Health Council, by other experts. That must be a serious advice, and I think that the Secretary of State should come from a good house, let me put it this way, to depart from such an advice at such a time. But at the end of the day such a decision, because it interferes with people's lives, must be taken in this Chamber. That can't be on the RIVM sign alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u30	Finally, Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u31	I think it is good to clarify this, because it is an extremely important point. It seems to me that the professionals are looking at the critical border, including differences in the country and differences per disease. Politics is ultimately about the consequences, but not about where borders lie. I think it would be extremely debatable if politics were to decide where the border is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u32	No, but I'm not saying that either. I say: experts, RIVM and Health Council determine, on the basis of their scientific measurements and knowledge, the degree of vaccination and whether we are reaching a critical point. If that is the time, we are here and the cabinet is in a position to decide whether to proceed with an obligation to participate in the National vaccination programme in child care. I think that is the order and you should not want just an opinion or a communication from the RIVM to be enough to move on to such legislation. In the end, the decisions have to be made here. I'm done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u33	Yeah, that's what I thought. Thank you, Mr. Hijink. I now give the floor to Mr Renkema on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u34	Thank you, Mr President. In the eighteenth century, Immanuel Kant called on his contemporaries to be brave, to show the courage to use their own mind. He argued for autonomous thinkers: the man who thinks for himself and does not let himself be guided by others. That plea was a support in the back of many enlightened thinkers and researchers. The church's dogma made way for science. And that science has brought us a great deal. A highly contagious and life-threatening disease such as smallpox is no longer a danger to us thanks to scientific research and the development of a vaccine. A highly contagious disease such as measles, which used to be very common, has become rare. But a measles-free society is not self-evident. In 2017 and 2018 dozens of people died of a disease that is avoidable in Europe. The vaccination rate has also fallen to too low a level in the Netherlands. If that continues, the group immunity, as it is called, is at risk. Increasing the vaccination rate is therefore important. That is why I have previously made proposals such as training more youth doctors, and I have spoken about the introduction of a vaccination passport. A place where many children who are not yet protected by the National Vaccination Programme meet is child care. My group understands the initiative proposal now before us. My colleague, Mr Raemakers, deserves a compliment that he, also an autonomous thinker, has consulted himself on how he can improve policy. But that does not mean that we do not have any critical questions about the proposal that is now before us. Mr. Chairman. The initiator states that increasing the vaccination rate is not the purpose of the bill. The aim is to make it possible for parents to choose a safe environment for their children. And as noble as that is, my group does have questions about that. Childcare centres will now have to decide for themselves whether to adopt such a policy of refusal. This may also create childcare centres that children will not refuse, which will enable them to receive relatively large numbers of unvaccinated children. That is why I ask the petitioner how he will ensure that children are not put at extra risk in these centres. How does he guarantee that the legislative proposal will not have the opposite effect, because this bill will create childcare centres where vaccination rates are too low? Mr. Chairman. My group also has some doubts about the choice made here to invest in individual organisations and in individual childcare companies whether or not to introduce a policy of refusal. Vaccination policy, also in view of what the Constitution says about public health, must be primarily the responsibility and responsibility of the public authorities. As far as we are concerned, this should be standardized, set limits and possibly even prescribe what is desirable in the context of public health. I would therefore like to ask the author whether he agrees with GroenLinks that the government has the greatest responsibility in the first instance and that this responsibility is laid down in Article 22 of the Constitution. What does he think of the recommendation of the Vermeij committee, which states that "the primary responsibility for taking measures lies with the government, not with childcare"? That committee has been mentioned a few times this afternoon. Does the petitioner share GroenLinks' concerns that this bill places a very heavy responsibility on the childcare centres? Mr. Chairman. We also see a number of implementation problems. For example, this proposal does not require childcare centres to keep a register of whether or not children have been vaccinated. Without such a register, childcare centres can never be 100% sure that they can fulfil the promise they make in this refusal policy. Children under 14 months of age have not yet been vaccinated, but even if childcare centres were selected very strictly at the gate, they would never be able to keep a record of whether children who were initially under 14 months of age were actually vaccinated. Also, children who are taken care of by host parents are not protected. I therefore ask the petitioner how he looks at the compulsory registration to avoid any ambiguity about this. How does he look at the idea of such a vaccination passport that I introduced? Could this have a significant role to play in overcoming this problem? And how does he look at the position of children in host care and their parents? Why isn't host care included in this law? Finally, I would like to hear a response from the author to the rather critical assessment of the legislative proposal by the Council of State. Of course, this has also been done in writing, but I would like to hear a response to this in the second term. I would also like to ask the following question. Should this legislative proposal be adopted, will the author be prepared to have an assessment in a number of years of its consequences, its effects, especially as regards the critical comments I made on the possibility of a number of crèches in which vaccination rates have fallen? Then I will stop, because I see Mr Van der Staaij at the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u35	I was reminded by what Mr Renkema said: it is in the Constitution. But that means that the government has the primary responsibility for health. What's he getting that from? For I see the Constitution: the government is taking measures for health. Very well, I wholeheartedly support that. But how does he make the leap to that it is the primary responsibility of the government and not of citizens themselves?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u36	It is always a responsibility of citizens and organisations to take measures to promote their own health. We also had this discussion during the Prevention Agreement. The Constitution states explicitly on public health: "The public authorities are taking measures to promote public health." If there is one measure that is proven effective when it comes to protecting the health of the people, then the vaccination policy has been. A lot of vaccinations have led to a lot less mortality among children and that was an initiative of the government. Well, I guess it's a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u37	But taking measures can also mean that there is a national vaccination programme and that you bring it to your attention. But that does not mean that it would also be the responsibility of the government to force that, as it were, on citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u38	I don't think I said that either. I have just said that at the moment this bill places quite a lot of responsibility on childcare centres to make their own choices, and that we believe that the government is the first to make the move when it comes to this type of policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u39	Following this little debate on where the responsibility lies, I heard Mr Renkema ask a critical question to the initiator: do we not place too much responsibility in child care? It's supposed to be in the government. At the same time, I heard you critically about the amendment and if the amendment is not adopted, the SP's own initiative proposal and the VVD. That is precisely where the responsibility lies strongly with the government. So what does GroenLinks want the government to take responsibility?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u40	I have just said something about this, that this bill does not really aim to increase the vaccination rate. It wants to give clarity to parents. When we say that the vaccination rate should be higher and that a place where many children come is child care, I think the government is the move. I have put some substantive and procedural questions to Mr Hijink of the SP about an amendment or an initiative proposal. I have asked these questions from the background that I believe that the government has a responsibility to protect public health and should therefore also make choices with regard to vaccination policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u41	Clear. Then my question is very specific: if you say that the government is going to do so, what is the move that the government has to make according to GroenLinks?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u42	I'll come back to that in a minute. If this is also a substantive question about how we look at the amendment, I have to say, as I did in the vaccination debate that we had a few months ago with Secretary of State Blokhuis............................................................................................................................................................................ Not because of the fact that we are in advance opposed to coercion and duty, but because of the idea that if the government, as a state, forces things on citizens, which in some of the citizens rather leads to mistrust and distance rather than dialogue and understanding for each other. That is why we support government policy when it comes to vaccination, which is why we strongly believe in this dialogue and also in the conversation with reluctant parents. A number of things are being done for that. As far as I am concerned, we have not yet achieved the latter. If it is true, which is also very clearly stated in the committee's report, that there is ultimately a falling vaccination rate, GroenLinks does not hesitate to say: now is the time to opt for more compulsion from above. In the context of public health, just to finish.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u43	Mr. Hijink, you're in doubt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u44	Yes, because Mr Renkema does suggest a little as if freedom of choice is more important now, as if it excludes one another. That's actually my point. Of course, you can do fine. I have just said that in my own contribution to give more information, to engage more in the conversation. That's all super important, you have to do all that. But that doesn't change the fact that at the same time you have to have something ready as a rearguard in case it is necessary. Now I ask Mr Renkema if he agrees. 'Cause now he's acting like it's one or the other. I think it's the art that you do one and set up the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u45	I think Mr Hijink and I are in complete agreement. During the vaccination debate, we also supported a motion in which the cabinet was asked to put together all conceivable scenarios for increasing the vaccination rate. Indeed, "all conceivable scenarios" include much more mandatory measures than just information and communication.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u46	So Mr Renkema agrees with me that freedom of choice is important. But freedom of choice, i.e. the freedom of one parent to decide not to vaccinate, must not be at the expense of the freedom of other children to live in good health at care. Does he agree with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u47	I approach the whole debate not from freedom of choice, but from effectiveness. At the moment that it turns out that through communication, dialogue and all kinds of measures, I have made some proposals for this myself, which are effective in achieving an adequate vaccination rate in the Netherlands, then that is wonderful. Then you shouldn't do that anymore. When it turns out that this is not the case and that it is not effective, you have to make commitments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u48	That's what you said. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u49	Thank you, Mr President. I've also come to the end of my contribution. I started with Immanuel Kant and I end with Immanuel Kant, because this philosopher argued for autonomy and for the self-thinking man. Then we will return to the topic we have just discussed in the debate with both the VVD and the SP. Different groups in our society have doubts about the usefulness and need of vaccination or have fundamental objections to it, which arise from a belief. In fact, they also practice autonomy, but do not rhyme their ideas or choice with a broad shared scientific and social consensus. But as far as my group is concerned, it is precisely for this reason that it is very important to give much more information, as has just been mentioned, to have a real conversation with these parents and to seek dialogue. 18% of parents in the qualitative research in the report of the Vermeij Committee are actually asking for more information. Fortunately, the cabinet has worked on this. After all, a choice of vaccination of one's own and voluntary nature will always be much more effective than obligations. My group looks forward to answering the second-term questions and thanks the author once again for his commitment. I see another question from...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u50	...Mr. Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u51	I'm still looking. On the one hand, GroenLinks says: we are mainly going to help parents to make the right choice with information. The cabinet has already said that you shouldn't let that happen anyway. For me, however, the debate is also under way as to whether we are going to choose to have children vaccinated if they are given up for child care. Then you can have a lot of conversations at the same time, but at least make sure that the reception locations are not at risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u52	What is Mr Van Dijk's question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u53	Mr. Gijs van Dijk, what's the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u54	The question is: does GroenLinks agree with the Labour Party to set a standard? When you put your child at the shelter, you have to commit yourself to a standard, namely that you have to vaccinate your child, with which it is no longer a choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u55	My main aim is to promote the vaccination rate in the Netherlands. If we do this properly in childcare by at least taking measures there, we must not forget that this alone is not enough to prevent these diseases, because children are not all vaccinated. Up to fourteen months they are vulnerable, even if they go to a playground or come to another place. In my view, therefore, our approach must be to ensure that this debate is conducted in such a way as to ensure that all children in the Netherlands are protected. For that, a vaccination rate above 95% is so important.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u56	I agree with Mr Renkema, but there is still the question: will we take a step together now by introducing a public vaccination requirement for reception sites?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u57	No, at the moment, I'm not in favour of a vaccination obligation in child care.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u58	Thank you. That too is clear. I now give the floor to Mrs Hermans on behalf of the VVD. Is it true that you have 20 minutes of speaking time? Oh, thank God that's not the case. Mrs. Hermans.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u59	Thank you, Mr President. This month, my niece is 14 months. Very soon she will get the first shot to protect her from measles. "Of course" she gets that shot, I'd like to say. Of course; that leads to no doubt with her parents. It is for her own health and for the health of her nephew, my little brother's son, that, if everything goes well, hopefully will be born healthy in February. The choice to have your son or daughter vaccinated was made by all my colleagues in the group a long time ago or just now. I keep saying "choice," but actually it's something you just do. Fortunately, this still applies to the vast majority of parents in our society. More than 90% of parents have their child vaccinated, for their own health, the health of their own children and the health of everyone in society. That's the norm. Yet there is cause for concern. That's why we're here today. Because although more than 90% of parents have their children vaccinated, that percentage has decreased between 2015 and 2018. Fortunately, we did not see any further decline in the past year, and let's hope it stays that way. But that decline shows that what we all seem to find so logical and what seems so self-evident is far from logical and self-evident. So it demands our attention all the time. For this reason alone, the VVD Group congratulates Mr Raemakers and his support for his own initiative proposal and for the social debate that he has also helped to stimulate and implement this proposal. Now it is up to us, politics, to take real steps, starting with the debate we are having today, at least to some extent. It is important, because we, as politicians, have a responsibility when it comes to vaccination, to protect children, our society and our public health. We have a national vaccination program for a reason, which is monitored continuously. It is supplemented and adapted to the latest insights of science. In the Netherlands, about 700,000 children go to a nursery one or more days a week. When you bring your son or daughter there, you want to make sure that the quality is good, that it is safe and that it is a healthy environment. Now everyone understands Mr. Van Dijk also mentioned that where children play and sit on each other's lips, accidents happen: a hole in the head, a bruise. And a flu can just skip. A flu and maybe chickenpox, but no diseases like measles or whooping cough; diseases with great consequences and diseases against which we can protect ourselves. If you just do that because you think it's logical and normal, you can expect it from others when they take their baby to daycare. The question of whether day care centres can now take action on this issue is unclear in parents and in daycare centres. Mr Raemakers' proposal removes this ambiguity. We give daycare homes the room to choose, to send a signal and to say: we care for your son or daughter with love and dedication, but only if he or she is vaccinated. If he or she doesn't, there's no place for us. For example, daycare centres take responsibility and remind parents of their own. And that's how we protect the kids at our daycare center. The VVD supports this proposal. It provides clarity for parents and clarity for daycare. But clarity will only come about if it works well in practice and is well arranged. Let us take an example of Berend Botje's daycare center, which is already pursuing this policy. Then I come to my first question to the initiator. Does the initiator intend to implement it according to Berend Botje's policy and practice? I'd like a reaction to that. It has already been discussed a few times: how does the initiator look at the potential risk of the infections? I'm just gonna use that word. So it's about those places where most of the kids are gonna end up who haven't been vaccinated. The VVD read the response of the initiator, but finds it a little too lean. So I would like a more detailed and detailed explanation of that question. Furthermore, the Council of State is also concerned about this: in order to be able to refuse unvaccinated children, there is one way or another a need to register data. How exactly does the initiator see that? Who is allowed to access this data and should we limit it? Then I have one more question about control. When you're told as a parent that at the shelter where you're taking your baby, no unvaccinated... Now I'm using a double denial. If you're told that you're taking your baby to a shelter where only vaccinated children come, then you should be able to assume that. Who's gonna check that that's actually happening? Mr. Chairman. These questions concern the implementation of childcare. I would therefore also like to put these questions to the Secretary of State for Social Affairs. How does it view these questions, also in the light of the critical comments made by the Council of State on this matter? Mr. Chairman. I told you. We support Mr Raemakers' initiative. It's a good move. To be precise, it is a good first step. As far as the VVD is concerned, this cannot be the case, especially when we find ourselves in a situation where the vaccination rate is going to fall again and we see that health risks are really increasing. Then we must be prepared. As a parent, you should not depend on the choice made by the daycare center near you. Then you should be able to count on a government that sets a standard and also sets a standard that states that participation in the National Vaccination Programme is a condition for access to childcare. In other words, no shot, no shelter. This isn't just anything. This has to be done carefully and we have to answer a few difficult questions; it has already come to an end in the debate. Then what is the lower limit and how exactly do you define it? How do we deal with exceptions for children who cannot be vaccinated for medical reasons and, of course, the youngest, who are still too young to be vaccinated? How do we manage the administration and control? Mr. Chairman. These kinds of questions take care. Carefulness, and yet we want to continue along the lines of the opinion of the Vermeij Committee. We had good hopes for ambition and decisiveness from the cabinet. Again: careful but ambitious and decisive. Mr Van Dijk of the PvdA already asked about the pace of the cabinet. We had, I say, a good hope that there would be speed, but that hope was somewhat lost when reading the cabinet response to the opinion of the Vermeij Committee. Mr. Chairman. I've seen a lot of those letters come by in the last two and a half years that I've been sitting here in the Chamber. I am sorry to have to say, but the letter does contain endless sentences that point to barriers, intricacies and other complexities. There are many reasons why we shouldn't have to make a difficult decision for the time being. At least that is how it came across to my group. It seems that this difficult decision is being pushed forward. Because yes, this is not an easy decision. But it is a decision that we must take as politics and consider. It is a decision that people in this country can expect from us. Then it would not be appropriate for us to hide behind procedural arguments not to conduct the debate on beliefs and yes, ideologies as well. Mr. Chairman. I told you. My group lacks ambition and decisiveness in the cabinet to take these steps now. That is why we are tackling this ourselves, and that is why we will work together with the SP to come up with an initiative proposal. I sincerely hope that this law will never have to enter into force, but we must have it ready in case the vaccination rate falls below a lower limit. It has been said a few times, but I also repeat it on behalf of the VVD Group. In the meantime, we must do everything we can to ensure that vaccination is the norm, in our communication and in our information and information, in fact, as Mr Renkema pointed out at the end of his speech, all with the aim of increasing the vaccination rate. The Secretary of State of VWS in his letter Further with vaccinate last November formulated a number of actions that deal precisely with this issue. The Vermeij Committee, which actually characterizes the current situation as the orange scenario, also points out that we must now vigorously take additional measures in the areas of communication, information and information. In the light of that advice and the letter from the Secretary of State of VWS, I have a number of questions to the Secretary of State. We can see that the differences in vaccination rates are large in regions. They are not always explained by a religious background or an anthroposophical impact. What does that explain? Is that the way the conversation is conducted with parents, for example? The Secretary of State indicated that he's investigating this. The question is, what's the score? Are we taking steps here now? The Vermeij Committee also advises again: now actively engage in the conversation; let healthcare professionals engage actively in the conversation with parents who decide not to vaccinate their child. The Secretary of State also wrote in the letter last year that he is talking about this with the field. How's that going? Is that happening now? Are parents now being asked for a call? And are professionals getting the right handles to have this conversation? The Secretary of State has also written that he lists how professionals can best be supported. Is there more insight into this and steps are being taken there too? Are the professionals getting the support they need? Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna finish up, and that's way under 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u60	That's very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u61	As I said, it is good that we are having this debate today. Once again, it is good that Mr Raemakers took that initiative. For example, as a chamber, as a political one, we are taking an important step for safe childcare. I say it again: it is a first step. Now it comes to the follow-up, namely that we are preparing for a situation that we hope will never reach: a situation where vaccination levels are too low and the risks to our public health are too great.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u62	Mr. Renkema. Mrs. Hermans, you were already done, weren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u63	I've got a little bit left.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u64	Well, then, I'd like to suggest that you finish your story neatly. Is that okay with you, Mr. Renkema?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u65	Of course, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u66	This is about our safety, about protecting our children. It's not just about your own kids, it's about someone else's kids. We are talking about something that should of course be done in a country like the Netherlands, namely that you have your child inoculated against scary diseases, diseases that used to kill a lot of children. The latter doesn't have to happen now. So let us do everything we can to prevent it from happening. Let's do everything we can to make sure the vaccination rate goes up. We must do what we can for this, without taboos. For my niece and my nephew, and for all the children in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u67	A beautiful and glowing speech by Mrs Hermans. Thank you for that. I just have a very technical question about this initiative proposal. She announces that she will submit this together with the SP. What is the difference between that bill and the amendment that the SP is putting on the table today?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u68	It is quite in line with Mr Hijink's amendment, but it is important for the VVD to deal with it separately, because it is really about something. I hope I have been able to make that clear in my contribution. It is really a fundamental choice that we make when we say that the government is going to impose such a standard, and if the government is going to say that your child needs to be vaccinated to have access to childcare. So I think that if you do something so fundamental, that also deserves an independent and independent debate. In addition, there are a number of issues where we really still have to find out very precisely. The lower limit has already been mentioned. How do you arrange an exception for children who cannot be vaccinated for medical reasons? We have to take our time. But again, I find the time the cabinet takes too long. That is why we are putting our own pace.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u69	I can very well imagine that a separate legal process is desirable because it is a fundamental question. It still raises the question of what the VVD thinks of this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u70	We support Mr Raemakers' proposal as it stands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u71	And the SP amendment isn't?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u72	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u73	Okay. Thank you, Mrs Hermans. I now give the floor to Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u74	Mr. Chairman. By vaccination, you protect your child from nasty diseases and indirectly protect other very young children, who have not yet had vaccinations. You'd say, "What parent doesn't want that?" The Christian Union therefore considers the National vaccination programme to be a great blessing. We also agree, I think, very quickly that a falling vaccination rate is a major risk to public health. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, we must therefore work to get the vaccination rate back up. This is about the health of all our children, now and in the future. That justifies government interference. First of all, the government can do much more to convince parents of the usefulness of vaccinations. An earlier report on the National vaccination programme showed that parents no longer swallow everything for sweets. A different approach is needed. First of all, parents need a firmer call for their children to be vaccinated. If you don't come to the consulting office, you won't get any letters, reminders or reminders. That's where the government can step up. The compelling profession of doctors with an eye to parents' concerns can also help to pull parents over the line. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll get to the bill. My group appreciates the work that Mr Raemakers has put into this initiative law. The idea that a childcare organisation can decide for itself who is admitted or not, in itself also fits well with Christian-social thinking and the principle of sovereignty in its own circle. As parents can freely choose whether or not to inoculate their child from their own sovereignty, a daycare centre must also be able to fulfil its sovereignty responsibility to protect the group of children as a whole. However, my group has doubts as to whether this initiative law is a solution to what we see as the real problem, namely the falling vaccination rate. I would therefore like to raise six points. Firstly, the bill is in fact designed to give parents the comfort they can safely bring their child to the shelter. It focuses on parents who already have their child vaccinated. In addition, the question is whether the proposal can provide the certainty that is being suggested. My group believes that we should focus on measures that actually increase the vaccination rate. The Vermeij Committee, which recently presented its opinion, also states that we must first examine alternatives to consider the best measures to increase vaccination rates. In this light, the Committee is critical of the present legislative proposal. The committee describes a green, orange and red scenario, but according to the committee this initiative law is not a solution in any of the scenarios. Moreover, this bill does not contain a lower limit, whereas the cabinet itself is looking at it. I'd like a reflection of the initiator on this. I would also like to hear how the Secretary of State looks at the initiative law in the light of the report of the Vermeij Committee. How does the Secretary of State of VWS view this bill as a result of the efforts to increase the vaccination rate and confidence in the National Vaccination Programme? Can such a proposal not also have a negative effect? Secondly, is the law necessary? Childcare organisations are private companies, which can decide for themselves who they provide their services to. They can already refuse children. They do not need an explicit legal basis for this. So if the bill is necessary, I ask the petitioner. In the explanatory memorandum, the complainant states that the purpose of the legislative proposal is to clarify in particular that an entrepreneur has this right, but that can also be done in other ways. Creating a special legal basis does not seem to be proportionate; we already make so many laws and rules in this house. I think it is very important that we continue to look critically at whether it is useful and necessary, also bearing in mind Compatibility Act Article 3 (1). If childcare organisations are not well aware of what they are and are not allowed to do, then we need to do the right thing. Third, is the law gonna work? My group has questions about the functioning of the legislative proposal. If you want an adequate refusal policy, then it is necessary for children's centres to keep a complete record of the vaccinations obtained per child. The initiator states that he does not consider such a registration necessary, but that showing evidence of participation is sufficient. Can the initiator explain this further? Does the bill not miss its purpose if there is no adequate registration underlying the refusal policy? I note that the Council of State is also critical of this. Fourthly, it has already been mentioned earlier, is this law not increasing the risk of fireplaces? I also want to put my finger on that possible side effect. If the majority of children's centers will refuse unvaccinated children, then only a few children's centers remain where unvaccinated children can go. Such clustering creates the risk of fireplaces. This is not only a risk to the location in question, but also to the rest of the area, the region and ultimately our entire country. The initiator writes in the note following the report in fact that he takes this risk for granted. My group is concerned about this. This point should be better addressed. Mr. Chairman. Fifth. As the report by the Vermeij Committee and the cabinet response to this report reveals, there are still a lot of complex issues in this area, both legal and implementation. That is why it is not advisable to make hasty decisions which are likely to have an effect. In the policy response, the cabinet announces that it will further investigate various scenarios and possible measures. Therefore, if this proposal is not to come too soon, I ask the initiator. For example, should we not first look at specific measures aimed at regions where vaccination rates are much lower than the national average? Sixthly, discrimination. The initiator has added in a letter of amendment that it is justified by this bill to make indirect distinction on the basis of religion or belief. But this addition surprises me somewhat. Because people who do not allow their children to be vaccinated for religious reasons are a very small minority in the Netherlands. The number of anti-vaxers has increased considerably in recent years with highly educated parents, who opt for this for non-religious reasons, for example on the basis of their own internet research. I therefore believe that the religious component in the addition is unnecessary and raises questions. What exactly does the author mean by this? I would also like to make a comment on the Heink amendment. Mr Hijink has tabled an amendment to the bill which is, in fact, in anticipation of what the cabinet is currently investigating, namely conditional access to child care linked to a critical minimum vaccination rate. In my view, the amendment is careless, because not all the hooks and eyes have yet been examined. In any case, Mr Hijink's antenna is correct as far as the Christian Union is concerned. Above all, however, the imposition of such an obligation by my group is far too far-reaching. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State how they look at the amendment. I wonder who should set a possible lower limit, now that RIVM has indicated that there is no scientific basis for a hard lower limit and that it is a political choice. What does the Secretary of State of VWS think of this view of RIVM?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u75	I can imagine that the Christian Union believes that the SP might be a little too far ahead of the troops. It's possible. However, can Mr Bruins agree with the basic principle of our amendment that, given the decreasing vaccination rate, it may be necessary at some point to make participation in the national vaccination programme compulsory in child care? Doesn't he think it makes sense to prepare in time?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u76	Public authorities need to be prepared for all kinds of scenarios; this is true in all kinds of sectors. At the same time, I do not believe that there has been sufficient action to bring the vaccination rate back up. I look forward to the actions this cabinet intends to take in order to focus on them first. As long as it is not clear whether that works, I think that further steps are still coming too soon at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u77	It is not for me to take further steps now. In my own contribution, and I believe that Mrs Hermans has also said so, I have made it quite clear that we do not want to introduce more robust legislation at all, but there may be a time when this vaccination rate will continue to fall, and you want to be prepared. This means that the law must be ready to be implemented quickly if it is to be necessary. That's why I'm asking the question again. I am not asking whether you agree with the main thrust of doing it now, but whether you can imagine that there will be a time when it could be and that is why it is wise to prepare it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u78	The Vermeij Committee has really established a periodicity. The report states that all kinds of actions are needed before you reach such a point. So I can imagine anything if the sky falls down, we all have blue hats, but first there are a lot of actions to take before you get into such a scenario.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u79	I heard the Christian Union say that it is concerned about the situation that might arise as a result of this bill, for example that a crèche would have a very low vaccination rate and that there could be a danger to children and others, in my opinion, even 'the whole population'. At the same time, the Christian Union is mild when it comes to people who refuse because of religious objections. I think there's a marvellous contradiction in that. Is the Christian Union not now concerned about the level of vaccination in the bible?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u80	There are very few people who do not allow their children to be vaccinated for religious reasons. This issue is again on the agenda because a lot of highly educated parents, as a result of their own research, come to the conclusion that they do not want to have their child vaccinated. It has actually become a new phenomenon. As a result, the vaccination rate is stable or falling. That's not because of the bible. The parents we are now so worried about again are not normally Christian Union-like.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u81	This is a fine line of reasoning. Actually, the Christian Union says: vaccination rates in the Netherlands are falling and we find that a problem, but it is not our problem; it is not the problem of the biblet, it is not the problem of religious deniers. Research shows that it is not highly educated but rather quite diverse: low-skilled and highly educated. It is also very diverse when you look at the regions; in all places people do not enter. But stable in that fact, also in the percentages, is what is being trivialized by saying "it's only a very small number" which in a number of regions, which can be identified geographically, the vaccination rate is low. I am surprised that the Christian Union is not concerned about this but about the groups of which it says 'it is not our people'.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u82	Mr Renkema specifically addressed me to people who, for religious reasons, decide not to vaccinate their children. It's a small group. It's a very small minority. It's also stable in the Netherlands. During the time that this was the only group that thought so, it was also the case that the vaccination rate was sufficiently high and this subject was less on the agenda. This subject is now on the agenda because the vaccination rate is falling dangerously. That's because of another group. That is also a group that I am concerned about, because it can also focus geographically when you get childcare places in certain neighbourhoods where vaccination is mandatory and all those parents who would normally not have a geographical focus are going to focus geographically on a particular location where you can still bring an unvaccinated child.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u83	Finally, Mr President, because I do not think we are getting out of this. The last measles outbreaks were in the bible. Tens of thousands of children were sick there, and children also died. That's a fact. The last question I would like to put on this subject is again, I do not think we are going to get out of this. I have advocated communication, information and dialogue. Does the Christian Union think that, as a government, we should also go into the bible to say "that vaccination rate should be raised"?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u84	I believe that all the people in this country should be reached, and that the government should also be more present in those regions and should be more strongly encouraged to have children vaccinated. Vaccination is a blessing of modern times. Please, let's convince as many people as possible of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u85	Then you all agree on something, Mr. Renkema!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u86	Let me return to the opinion of the Vermeij Committee. Mr Bruins is right to say that the committee says that at this stage of code orange there is still a great deal to gain in communication, information and information for parents. But the committee also says that it is precisely in this scenario that we need to prepare ourselves for the situation that we are unexpectedly going down to the red scenario and that we really find ourselves in a critical, risky situation. Does the Christian Union say that it wants to wait and see what additional communication and information will have to do with the vaccination rate and then whether legislation needs to be prepared? Or is Mr Bruins following the whole opinion, which says: extra communication and preparing a law?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u87	Let me at least address Mrs Hermans here. I am faced today with the idea that there will be an initiative law from the VVD and the SP. At least we'll assess every initiative law on its merits. We are not in favour of such a proposal in advance or in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u88	But today we are talking about Mr Raemakers' bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u89	Yeah, exactly. It is difficult to take a position on a future initiative proposal now, but we are simply going to look at the content. We'll see if we can back that up. Or maybe we'll even amend it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u90	That seems very sensible to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u91	Finally, Mr President. I appreciate Mr Raemakers' commitment to caring for vulnerable children. I do not think that reassuring parents who do want to vaccinate their children should be our first goal. Above all, let us focus on the measures that help other parents to overcome their fear of vaccination, as I promised Mr Renkema. As a result, the vaccination rate can rise again. Hopefully the refusal of children at children's centres or even the imposition of vaccinations as suggested here is not necessary. I look forward to hearing the answers of the initiator. I would like to congratulate him once again for all the work he's put into this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u92	Thank you, Mr. Bruins. I now give the floor to Mrs Agema on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u93	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. What a beautiful sight to see Mr. Raemakers sitting there in Box-K. That suits him, doesn't it? Mr. Chairman. The issue of whether or not to require vaccination has been the subject of discussion since the invention of vaccines. For example, in the Netherlands in the nineteenth century, even before the introduction of compulsory schooling, we had a mandatory vaccination against the copox. You had the so-called smallpox note back then. If you couldn't show that, you couldn't go to school. Because smallpox was virtually eradicated in the 20th century, mandatory vaccination was abolished in 1976. That was a great result. And yet polio has also been virtually eradicated without a vaccination requirement. Information, the visibility of the disease and information combined with a free vaccine were key to a successful National Vaccination Programme. In the meantime, we are living in a different time, in a digital age in which other standards have taken precedence. This initiative proposal is not about the obligation, but rather about informing, informing and making choices. My compliments to the initiator for discussing this bill and for his attempt to make it easier for parents to determine what kind of childcare they bring their offspring to. The bill calls for transparency and for the right to refuse, to ask for it and to cancel an agreement. It also regulates the inclusion of the state of play in the National Register for Childcare, with an effective date. However, enforcement is still inadequate. We received an e-mail this afternoon, and I think that several of you have also received screenshots of social media, from forums where it was indicated that there are already parents who are misfilling questions, who are already shuffling, who think there is. There's a doctor who wants to fill out a note. I would like to ask the author to what extent this enforcement undermines his proposal, because of course you want the certainty that this initiative proposal wants to offer to be there. Outbreaks are not purely theoretical. We are not merely having a theoretical discussion here today either. We saw it last April at a daycare center in The Hague, where four children received measles. I think this legislative proposal could mean something to that effect. For example, there may be an outbreak on a daycare facility where a child of two or two and a half is not vaccinated, who has contracted something abroad and is placed in a group with children under 14 months of age. That's where the contamination can take place. That is why I think it is very important for parents to know what policies are being pursued at the daycare facility where they are taking their children. Mr. Chairman. Then I also have a question for the Secretary of State. I don't know if I've suggested this to him before. I apologize if that's the case, but I'd like to ask the U.S. Secretary of State to think about the idea of letting parents who decide not to vaccinate their child have a conversation with pediatricians. We had a conversation with our two pediatricians in our room. They would very much like to pick this up to put a reasonable conversation with a professional across from what these parents all read on the internet fora. That was their proposal, and that seems to me to be a good thing, because you do not want to lower that vaccination rate any further and you would like to raise it a little. If that's fair enough, I think you're a bacon buyer. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the story about RIVM. I think it's a strange story that politics is about to move on. I don't like that either. We're not a banana republic. We're "but" politicians. We're not professionals. We don't know how things work. We need to be informed. We also need to get some advice that may or may not help us. Then we deal with the consequences; we should not discuss the content. So I'd like to hear the U.S. Secretary of State on what he's about to do. As regards the follow-up steps and a critical lower limit, for example in the context of Mr Hijink's amendment, I will ask my group to take a position on what to do. In that respect, I am not going to anticipate matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u94	Then I have a very practical question for Mrs Agema: what is she proposing? If she does not think that it should ultimately be a decision of the cabinet, but that the ball is with the RIVM or any other body, who will ultimately decide whether further action should be taken?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u95	I'm not going to make a decision as a politician on nothing. There's nothing there now. There is now no proposal from any organization that we can rely on in this respect. I also understand that it is an exciting time, but that critical lower limit has not been reached. I am therefore not going to anticipate matters in this respect either. I'm not an expert, and I'm not sitting on an expert's chair either. So we will only have to force what needs to be done from the field of experts in a different way, but I am not going to come up with that myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u96	No, but that's what I said. As a politician, you shouldn't decide what that border really is. That seems logical to me, but the question is whether Mrs Agema believes that RIVM or anyone else should come up with such a clear critical limit. Does she think that RIVM or any other organisation should investigate this and actually determine what a critical lower limit looks like and what that point would be instead of what they have said now? 'Cause that's possible, isn't it? I don't think that's a crazy idea at all. Or is she okay with what RIVM has actually said, namely: we cannot name one number, but we can combine a series of surveys and numbers and issue an opinion on that basis. Of course you can. What's her preference?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u97	As long as the advice comes from the RIVM and the responsibility is not placed on the Ministry's plate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u98	Let me get this straight. In the opinion referred to by Mrs Agema, the RIVM does indeed say that it cannot name a single number on scientific grounds. It's called a bandwidth. You are also right that we are not yet at that percentage. RIVM says it remains a political choice in the end, but there is of course a lot of information available at RIVM and at the Health Council in order to reach a balance. If all this information comes together and comes together, does Mrs Agema agree with the VVD that we should ultimately say politically here: on the basis of this information, whether that is a bandwidth or one number, do we make this decision?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u99	In the end, we only do that on the basis of an opinion. I'm not gonna get my own advice based on something I should be getting from somewhere. I'm definitely not gonna do that. I'm not a professional.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u100	Clear. Thank you, Mrs Agema. I now give the floor to Mrs Diertens on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u101	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Over the past year we have been alarmed again by a number of outbreaks of measles at daycare centres. Many frightening and contagious childhood diseases have gone out of the picture, making it easy to underestimate their severity. Meanwhile, there are more and more vaccine doubters, parents who have been deterred, sometimes only by scientifically unsubstantiated stories on social media about side effects, while there is irrefutable evidence that vaccinations are safe. As vaccination rates continue to decline, I think it is time to protect parents who are worried. In diseases such as measles, the vaccination rate should be 95%. Now this percentage is at risk of falling below 90. That's gonna break group immunity. It is particularly dangerous for babies, who can only be vaccinated for 14 months. Parents who do inoculate their children are rightly concerned about the effects of falling vaccination rates. Therefore, D66 wants childcare organisations to be able to choose to refuse unvaccinated children and in that case to ask parents for proof of vaccination. Parents with different beliefs can still choose whether they want to inoculate their children. Crèches and toddler care services are free to make their own assessment and only allow vaccinated children. But D66 wants to give parents who want to vaccinate the opportunity to choose one or the other child center. This protects young children from risks of non-vaccinating. In crèches, this is particularly true of babies under 14 months of age. You also stimulate the parents who have doubts about vaccination to have their child inoculated. In this way, we do not unnecessarily expose children to contamination with dangerous diseases. Some childcare organisations already do this on their own initiative, but they run the risk of being dragged into court. D66 does not consider that this social problem between parents and childcare should be fought in court. We want to provide these organisations with a legal basis. My D66 colleague Rens Raemakers' bill, which is now before us, makes the market for children's centres transparent. This is in the interests of the parents who are concerned about whether they are taking their children to a safe environment. For example, parents can make a well informed choice for a child center for their child. For this, it is also necessary for children's centres to inform parents about the extent to which they can remove parents' concerns about their child's safety. After all, there is always a chance that an infected child will infect an unprotected child. This is particularly the case when a child under 14 months of age, who could have contracted the disease outside the children's centre because it had not yet been vaccinated, infects another unvaccinated child of that age in the children's centre. On the other hand, it should be clear to children's centres that they may refuse unvaccinated children and, in this context, ask parents for proof of vaccination. Of course, this applies only to children from 14 months of age. That is the age at which they are vaccinated in the National vaccination programme for measles, mumps and rubella. It is particularly important for children under this age that they cannot be infected by older children. As soon as they reach the age of 14 months, a vaccination certificate will be requested from their parents. Holders of centres of children may include in their contracts with parents that they may terminate this contract if the parents do not demonstrate that their child is actually taking part within a reasonable period of time after a child is eligible for the National Vaccination Programme. Mr President, I shall conclude. My group sees the need to set such a lower limit. How does the initiator view this? I therefore ask the Secretary of State to have completed his investigation into determining an argumented lower limit as soon as possible, as RIVM leaves that to politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u102	Were you ready? No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u103	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u104	A brief question from Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u105	I would like to ask D66 why they called very strongly in the newspaper in July that we now need to come up with additional measures and move forward, in fact in line with the proposal that SP and VVD are now going to make, but have not subsequently included them in the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u106	Well, at least I want to make it clear that we are at a lower limit and that we want to have it determined. The only question is how to get that shape. In previous questions to my colleagues it has already become clear that there is still a great deal of water to go through the Rhine in order to determine where that border is to be determined and who will set that limit. That is why it is necessary to examine this issue as well. We would like to leave that form to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u107	Finally, Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u108	But I didn't ask a question about a lower limit at all. I asked why D66 in a very large piece in the newspaper promises to come up with an adjustment of the proposal in line with what VVD and SP are now proposing and in line with the amendment that I have tabled. Actually, I think that's a little weird. You say in the newspaper "we're going to amend our proposal because after the Vermeij committee we see that other measures are needed," and then you're sitting here in the benches and you didn't do what you promised in the newspaper. My question is, why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u109	In substance, we support the idea of a lower limit, but I would like to hear from both the initiator and the cabinet whether an amendment like you have proposed is also legally the right way to deal with it. In substance, we agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u110	Finally, and not repeat the same question again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u111	No, don't repeat it, but why didn't D66 amend its own proposal, as promised?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u112	That's the same question. That's the third time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u113	Anyway, Mr. Chairman, if I don't get an answer twice... Mrs Diertens answers questions I do not ask. I ask one question: why did you not amend the proposal as promised?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u114	That's the fourth time the same question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u115	The answer is the same, namely that we agree with the content of setting a lower limit. Only the RIVM said it's hard to determine. Following on from previous speakers, I say that is something that needs to be determined. We welcome the fact that this will be clarified. That's what I'm supposed to do. We therefore agree that we want to have a lower limit, but we do not yet agree whether an amendment is the right legal way to deal with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Diertens.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u117	That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u118	Good. Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs De Pater-Postma on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u119	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. First of all, I very much appreciate all the efforts made by Mr Raemakers and his collaborator to table this bill. Own-initiative legislation always requires a lot of time and patience. It's quite a job, so compliments for that. The CDA Group, like Mr Raemakers, is concerned about the decreasing vaccination rate in childcare. It must be avoided that this trend continues, so that the vaccination rate is reduced even further and the safety of our children is put at risk. Recently RIVM reported that the vaccination rate is fortunately rising again. That's hopeful, but not enough to sit back. You won't. As the Secretary of State for VWS has already indicated, communication on vaccination is being improved. More emphasis will be placed on the importance of vaccination and on the questions surrounding vaccination. The cabinet is fully committed to providing care professionals with the best possible equipment to have conversations with parents who have doubts about vaccination, so that more parents can be convinced of the usefulness of this vaccination. That's good and important. We saw that again at Berend Botje, which has already been mentioned. The conversations with the parents just worked very well. It is good to realise that, because of the various vaccination programmes, there can never be a 100% vaccination rate in childcare. This also means that children's centres with a refusal policy cannot always be completely safe, because children under 14 months of age cannot be vaccinated against mumps, measles and rubella. There are also children who cannot be vaccinated because of illness. In view of the infectiousness of measles and the severely reduced effect due to group immunity within childcare centres, the risk of an infected child infecting unprotected children is therefore always present. Mr. Chairman. The aim of this proposal is to allow the applicant to refuse children who have not been vaccinated to children centres. But children's centers already have that opportunity. In our written input, the CDA Group expressed doubts about the added value of this bill. Those doubts have not been fully resolved after the written reply. I have a number of questions in this first term. Mr. Chairman. Can the petitioner explain in detail exactly what the practical usefulness of this bill is, now that it is already possible in practice to refuse unvaccinated children? How does the petitioner view the fact that the difference in vaccination programmes and the age of the children never make it possible to be completely safe? Isn't the petitioner afraid that this bill will increase false security? Fireplaces have already been mentioned by a number of other groups. How does the proposer intend to prevent crèches where only children are left who have not been vaccinated, thereby increasing the risk of an outbreak of measles, for example? Has a quick scan been made of the scenario that crèches are created with unvaccinated children alone? Let me take a look at the cabinet: if no, would the Secretary of State be willing to have such a quick scan done? What about the administrative burden? Is the author not afraid that they will increase? And, also very important, why weren't the host parents' agencies included in this bill? Is the applicant not afraid that not taking the host parents' offices will be at the expense of parental choice and a level playing field between childcare centres? These are all questions that we would like answered before we decide our position on the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u120	Thank you, Mrs De Pater-Postma. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u121	Madam President. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Raemakers on his own-initiative proposal. It is always quite a job, alongside all the other parliamentary work, to be on the table with an initiative legislative proposal. It also bears witness to his great commitment to this issue, as we have seen in previous debates. So much for my complimentary words.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u122	Short and powerful. Now the rest!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u123	Mr Raemakers saw the coming, given our position in previous debates, that we are questioning the path of this initiative law. In those previous debates, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I said that we understand the concerns about the decreasing vaccination rate and that we think it is important to focus on information, dialogue and communication. The SGP considers it important that parents make a careful, conscientious choice about the vaccination of their children on the basis of correct information. In municipalities, which have an important task in the light of the National vaccination programme, we see all kinds of developments. People are going to work on it in concrete terms, and they are going to start the conversation. It is waiting to see whether this trend is continuing, but we also see from reports from around the summer that the falling vaccination rate is coming to a standstill and that there seems to be an increase again. Mr. Chairman. The SGP is against any form of vaccination obligation. With such a compelling measure, you get too much into personal, constitutional privacy. When we talk about it within our party, I notice that the party was founded about one of the main arguments that we were against the existing vaccination obligation. There was a huge address movement in the twenties of the last century, because then there was also a vaccination, the cowpokinenting, which had quite serious side effects but which was mandatory. I see some head-shaking gestures in the room. The situation today is indeed not comparable to that at the time; we shall soon be able to agree on it. The side effects that are now being discussed are incomparable, medically speaking, with what was at the time, but I would like to outline the historical background, because it sometimes matters for the sensitivity of such a theme. As a party, we are opposed in principle to any form of vaccination obligation. Once again, this has been discussed in previous debates, but I thought it appropriate not to deal with this legislative proposal in a technical manner, but also to outline the starting point for my group. Mr Raemakers wants to lay down in the law that child centres may refuse children who have not been vaccinated. I have three basic questions. First of all, can he indicate more clearly what problem he wants to solve with this bill? Is it mainly about parents' concerns, the alleged ambiguity of childcare centres, or the falling vaccination rate itself? That is not very sharp, in my view, on the basis of the documents, and I think it is useful and valuable to focus on this. It is, of course, clear that the legislative proposal is motivated by concerns about the nationally declining vaccination rate, but we do not really know exactly what is going on with the vaccination rate at the daycare centres themselves. Maybe that vaccination rate is just over 95%. That's not even out of the question. That's unclear. In doing so, the initiator himself states that he realises that there will always be unvaccinated children under 14 months of age at child care. 100% certainty not to get infected is not there. It is therefore a question of whether the legislative proposal does not achieve some sort of sham reality. How does he respond to that objection? The bill does not directly contribute to increasing the vaccination rate in general. The Council of State also points this out. Why does Mr Raemakers no longer opt for proposals in this direction, which can contribute more directly to increasing vaccination rates in general? Then the second question: where does this end? If you zoom in completely on this bill in itself, you can say: it is a relatively light measure, which is close to what is already the case in legal terms. The childcare centres can simply shape such a policy. But what are the next steps? The initiator states in the note following the report that he does not share the SGP's view that there is an indirect vaccination constraint when a daycare centre moves to refuse non-vaccines. He noted that a significant proportion of the child centres were likely to pursue a closed admission policy. This will be a direct consequence of the bill. The initiator even expressed the hope elsewhere in the note on the report that the legislative proposal would contribute to a slight increase in vaccination rates. But isn't it precisely the intention to bring these parents to vaccination by means of this bill? Is that a purpose or not? So that is a lack of clarity that I would like to have another reaction to. Mr Raemakers does not exclude that a national vaccination obligation will ever be necessary in the interests of public health. On page 13 of the report note, it is clear that the initiator would also like to go further with possible compulsory vaccination for schools, although he acknowledges that this calls for other, more far-reaching legislative changes. I always agree that if you have something in mind, then you just make it explicit in the debate and not just let it see through technical points. I actually feel that if you say "yes" to this, that means that the following will actually be within reach. So is this really something that is completely in itself, is this an end in a particular discussion? Or is this step 1, which will also be followed by new steps? For us there is also an important hesitation in this proposal. And then there's my third and final question. Is the measure proposed by the author of this proposal not too general? I should also like to look in particular at the letter of amendment tabled by Mr Raemakers. It states that when a child centre enters into a closed admission policy, this is in all cases justified by recourse to Article 2 (1) of the General Law on Equal Treatment. In all cases, the applicant considers such a measure appropriate and necessary. Our question is, can you just say that? Are there no situations in which a balancing of interests is made and you say: no, you cannot just follow a closed admission policy? Or at least you will have to apply a hardness clause to do justice to those standards of the General Equal Treatment Act. Because, in fact, it calls for a special balance to be struck between a particular situation. What about, for example, a child living in a region where there are few opportunities to move to an alternative daycare facility? What about the medical objections to vaccination, which may also be there? And it doesn't just apply to children. What about staff who've already had measles? Couldn't that also provide a comparable level of protection? Then you actually say: it's new policy; you just don't get in. Is that even proportional in such a case? You're actually saying with that letter of amendment: whatever's going on, it's always good to refuse. Isn't that way too common? I have also looked at other legislation. Isn't that also a very unusual construction? At least I cannot immediately find that it is regulated in another law in this way. This is an important letter of amendment. Would it not be appropriate to seek further advice from the Council of State on this matter? That is the final question I would like to put to the initiator. Mr President, so much for my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u124	Mr Renkema, a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u125	I have just had Mr Van der Staaij's introduction working on me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u126	And don't sum it up!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u127	I'm not going to sum it up. I do not know the history of the SGP as well as Mr Van der Staaij, but I believe that party has been set up against insurance coercion, against women's right to vote and against vaccination. If I understand correctly, Mr Van der Staaij says that resistance to vaccination was related to the fear of side effects. I have always understood that it was religious beliefs that led the SGP not to vaccinate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u128	It is true that the SGP was against all kinds of coercion. That freedom was an important point. Those arguments did indeed play: the religious argument, what does confidence in providence mean? No one has ever said that trusting in the providence that God leads your life means that you should not take precautions. On the contrary, the Old Testament laws state that if you have a balcony, you have to put a law around it, so you don't just fall off. But the discussion was about the following. Precautionary measures? Sure, very important. There's actually no discussion about that. But the question was: is this a normal precaution, if it can make you sick? Of course, that was the case with the cow-pokinating. That is why it has been abolished at some point. Of course, that resonates. We cannot ignore the fact that this specific, also quite Dutch, discussion is still working on, especially with people who are used to thinking historically and who also have old books in the closet and who read them. All that also plays a role. I actually like how the government has dealt with this in the past, by saying: we make sure that there is a brochure that shows that you can also look at it religiously differently and we give information to youth doctors on how to deal with these kinds of arguments. I think that this is a good route for the government, to try to get to grips with other target groups, which are sometimes more difficult to detect, because it is important that everyone makes a careful and conscientious assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u129	My information is that smallpox has disappeared because of the vaccination and not because of the fear of side effects. I would like to add a question to this in connection with the debate between Mr Bruins of the Christian Union and myself. He said here this afternoon: I think it is very good that information and communication should focus specifically on religious groups in the bible, because they have a low vaccination rate. Does the SGP share the Christian Union's position?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u130	First of all, I think you should do the Christian Union justice. If you are really interested in the various grassroots groups, then the objections are, also in the bible, more in a part of the SGP constituency than in the Christian Union. Honesty commands you to say that. On the contrary, I think the customization is right and proper. That's what I advocated: now go and see where those objections live. What's the best way to talk about that? The special thing is that this has just happened for the reformer's supporters. This should also be done for new groups, which are sometimes subject to very different arguments. The brochure on reformatorical supporters says: pay particular attention to the argument of faith and shows that there are different views. That's what the brochure shows. Don't keep stressing that it's so bad when you get a disease, because people know that. They'll take that responsibility seriously. I am indeed an advocate of this kind of targeted information provision. I will come back to the first point, because he said in an intermediate sense that smallpox did disappear because of the vaccination. It is true that he has made a positive contribution to this. But in the early days there was a high price, due to the side effects. There were people who got meningitis after smallpox or died from it. That was part of the reality of that time. Once again, I would like to add that the current vaccinations are not comparable to those of that time. The medical information is simply that side effects are generally very limited.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u131	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u132	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank the author very much for submitting this legislative initiative. I would also like to congratulate him on turning his concerns about parents' freedom of choice into action in the best interests of the child. I'd like to start with that. Vaccinating makes the moods and the social debate very exciting, and not without reason. Every parent or caregiver wants what's best for his or her child, right? What's best about that is fores and opponents of vaccinees are so disruptive that some people have just stopped listening to each other's arguments. I understand that very well. As a mother, I fully agree that there is nothing in this life that I will fight harder for than for our children: for their happiness and their health. I, too, am extremely careful, and that is why I, as a mother, am very much in favour of vaccination. But my baby's been 11 months and going to daycare. As the mother of a child who has not yet been vaccinated against measles, mumps and rubella, I can sympathize with parents who are worried about the recent measles outbreak at daycare centres and the decreasing vaccination rate in general. But parents are free to make their own assessment of whether or not to vaccinate their child. It is good for citizens to be critical and ask questions, and freedom of religion is a great asset. But one's freedom can very well be a restriction on another's freedom. We have a major problem such as the freedom of one person to cause the freedom or even the suffering of the other, and that is precisely the case. Mr. Chairman. In recent years, the vaccination rate of children has fallen steadily. In the past, when believers in particular used their freedom not to inoculate children and to be independent from medical science, a group was added in 2019. This group of people is reading themselves more extensively than many other citizens have ever done. They do not turn away on the basis of belief, but on the basis of their own investigations, from the scientifically based advice from the medical world. Mr. Chairman. The stories of parents whose children have become seriously ill by not inoculating reach us via the media and reach me personally by e-mail. Shocking testimonies of pediatricians fighting for the lives of children who have become infected with diseases that we in the Netherlands had long wanted to overcome and eradicate, such as measles. The decreasing vaccination rate. The vulnerability of the youngest, youngest, younger than 14 months, who have not yet been vaccinated against the mumps, measles and red dog, especially in daycare centres. The recent outbreaks. The group immunity that's on the move. In any case, this is a matter of urgency for me to say that it is indeed time for real measures to be taken. Mr. Chairman. This legislative proposal provides for children's day care facilities to be refused the children who do not participate in the national vaccination programme. That's a good first step. It does provide clarity and transparency. But can't it be done already and if so, is that really clear for daycare? How does the petitioner see the added value of this bill? It is important that parents have the personal freedom to make the choices they deeply feel are best for their child. Once parents have made their choice, it seems extremely important to me that there are possibilities to check whether nursery homes that actually implement this refusal policy actually maintain it in practice. Why does the petitioner not think this is necessary? Isn't there a false security created otherwise? In the applicant's view, is there no chance that day-care facilities might be included in the refusal policy because of the fear of fewer notifications, but will in practice be soft on enforcement? So what do we do? Don't you think this bill's gonna override its purpose? Did the petitioner foresee this? Who can see the vaccination certificates? Has the petitioner considered privacy? How do we reassure the parents who fear that their unvaccinated child will be treated like a kind of pariah if it is known that it has not been vaccinated? And what to do for children who cannot be vaccinated for medical reasons? Mr. Chairman. It is important to protect the most vulnerable. Is this bill in that light enough? Does the petitioner think this is enough? I share the concerns of previous speakers as to whether there will be a division in the daycare centres that introduce the refusal policy against the nursery homes that do not do so, where relatively many children will stay who are not vaccinated and where children are logically even more vulnerable than they already are, so-called fireplaces in the event of an outbreak. In such a case, how is outbreaks dealt with, I ask the Secretary of State of the United States of America. Will additional precautions be introduced for nurseries where more unvaccinated children are likely to stay, so that in the event of outbreaks, extra rapid action can be taken? Mr. Chairman. The aim of this bill is not to increase the vaccination rate, the petitioner states. The petitioner's hope is that the parents who still have a bit of doubt will get over the line. But does the author agree with me that this will not happen to parents who, for religious reasons, do not choose to do so? Fear can also play a role in the fact that vaccination would be dangerous to health and weaken the immune system. There are many different reasons behind the decreasing vaccination rate. Does the petitioner really think that this bill is still calling into question parents? What if this isn't the case and the vaccination rate keeps dropping? What does the petitioner propose to do? Is a vaccination obligation negotiable? Is it perhaps an idea to set up a partially mandatory vaccination programme as a back-up, for example, for the diseases that need the highest vaccination rate because they are highly contagious? Let me give you the example of measles. Mr. Chairman. What is the critical lower limit? Will the U.S. Secretary of State make haste to establish it? And can we take further action? Or do we actually sink through the ice? I await with interest the initiative law of the SP, which several parties will join. I support this initiative proposal, but I do think that more needs to be done to protect our children if the vaccination rate is to fall further. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u133	Thank you, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-16.u134	I have just said, at the opening of this debate, that further consideration of the legislative proposal will take place in good consultation with the initiator. I haven't complimented you on your bill yet, Mr. Raemakers, but you will if you've spoken. So I'm gonna keep that to myself. For now, thank you for having received all the comments. I shall suspend the sitting until 7.15 p.m. After the suspension, we will continue the debate on the European summit.
