ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u1	Good afternoon. The next item is the Environment Act, No 34986. I welcome the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, I welcome Members, I welcome the people who are following this debate in the public gallery and, of course, the people who are following this debate in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u2	I propose that Mr Smeulders be given the floor as the first speaker. Mr Smeulders speaks on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about the Introduction Act of the Environment Act. A next step in a massive construction that should lead to a new legal system for spatial planning in 2021. I can really imagine that this change of law is hard to follow for the outside world, also because the consequences are not really clear for a number of years to come. That is really very unfortunate, because we live in a small but also vulnerable country in which space is scarce. Once given open space and nature we will never get back. Good protection is therefore essential. During the previous debate on the Environment Act, I quoted the book Groteer doen, kleiner doen van Herman Tjeenk Willink. His statements very well expressed the fact that in the Netherlands we really have a beautiful and long-standing tradition of coordinated spatial policy, but also how our spatial planning has been eroded in many areas over the past few years. As GroenLinks, we regret that. Of course, I'd almost say. As far as my group is concerned, it is absolutely essential that the new legal system should guarantee and actually improve the level of protection. Unfortunately, the question is whether this will happen with this Environment Act. Since the beginning of the legal process, we have therefore expressed our concerns about the lack of safeguards. The Environment Act places too much emphasis on deregulation as far as GroenLinks is concerned. That is a real shame, because in a busy country like the Netherlands these rules are there for a reason. We have to fight for what's vulnerable. Everyone has the right to clean air, an open landscape and lots of greenery. The Council of State has also expressed concerns about support and equivalent protection. This legislative proposal offers so much flexibility that equivalent protection is no longer established or that a good balance will soon be found between protecting and exploiting. After all, this legislative proposal oversees the entire physical environment and gives local authorities much more administrative discretion and discretion. Often, the economic benefits of an activity for a municipality are faster and more clearly visible than environmental and health effects in the longer term. This may lead to so-called soft values, or softer values, being undermined by the lack of clear frameworks of government in the weighing of different interests.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u4	Before you continue, a question from Mrs. Laan-Selschap.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u5	Can I put the words of the member of GroenLinks in such a way that he does not consider local democracy to be so high that he himself can make that assessment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u6	I have a very high level of local democracy. I've also been politically active there for years. I also saw at that time that it was important that you sometimes set some frameworks at a slightly higher level, for example when discussing industrial sites. Do we think that each municipality should build its own industrial site, or is it a good thing that the province, for example, is watching if there are not too many? That probably has something to do with your own party's vision. We think green is so important that we want to protect it as best we can, and that often means higher levels.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u7	Finalizing, Mrs. Laan-Selschap.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u8	Is GroenLinks cherrypicking in what it does and doesn't think it's important, and does it think through these frameworks to give local government some kind of support or a push in the right direction?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u9	The second part of that question has already been formulated much more positively. Whatever considerations you make, I really think it has something to do with your party ideology. And yes, we have a lot of confidence in local democracy, but we also know that it is sometimes difficult at local level to say no to certain initiators, for example. Often also something at local level is a nice development, but it is undesirable for the community, for the province or for the country if any municipality allows that development. We would like to take action against that. Mr. Chairman. We believe that the government has a clear role to play in this. The Health Council noticed that, too. Is the Minister therefore open to the government, naturally in consultation with the local authorities, to develop a method for quantifying soft values such as the environment, health and climate? It would also be interesting to experiment with this in the framework of the National Environment Vision, which we will soon be discussing. I'd like to hear if the Minister is prepared to do so. GroenLinks considers it very important that the Environmental Act itself has content, with minimum and maximum standards. What is really allowed throughout the Netherlands and what is really not allowed? In our view, for example, the assessment framework for permits belongs to the law and not to the implementing rules. To do justice to democratic legitimacy, we believe that at law level at least the standards that are not expected to change in the years to come should be at least those. Does the Minister agree with us? In fact, I fear that this is not the case, because the change in the system, which was introduced a number of years ago, has taken a different line, namely to lay down less strict rules in the law. GroenLinks therefore voted against the Environment Act at the time. As long as this is the line, it's gonna be hard for us to vote for it all of a sudden. However, today I will indicate how we can still improve the decision taken to introduce the Environment Act as far as GroenLinks is concerned. To this end, we have tabled three amendments, which I would like to explain. I also have a number of questions for the Minister. I'll do that in three cubes. The first block deals with substantive improvements. After that, I will deal with the strengthening of participation. I conclude with good execution and monitoring. Mr. Chairman. No country in the world is as varied in its landscape as the Netherlands. In fact, this is quite amazing for one of the smallest countries in the world. Moreover, that country would have been half as small if our ancestors hadn't gone inpoldering and winning land. They created a land with guldes, swamps, peat meadows, waterlines, low winds, dunes and wadden. Unfortunately, we are slowly but surely losing more and more of our characteristic landscapes. Many people are therefore concerned about the future of their landscape. In 2016, for example, it turned out that when more than 100,000 Dutch people supported the action Protecting the coast, against building beaches and dunes. Care for our landscape cannot rest on the shoulders of a few. It is a matter for citizens, businesses, organisations and governments. Fortunately, the number of people working for the landscape is growing. But a participatory society cannot live without a government that takes responsibility. We therefore call for the European Landscape Treaty to be added to this legislation. To that end, we have the amendment to item No. 13 submitted. This European Landscape Treaty was signed in Florence in 2000 and it sounds very nice. This Convention was ratified in 2005. Fifteen other international conventions are included in the list of international obligations in the main text of the Environment Act. Landscape policy is decentralised, but the responsibility for the international Landscape Treaty remains with the Empire. It is striking that this treaty has not been incorporated. So we think it makes sense to include that. We would very much like to hear whether the Minister agrees. My next question concerns the standstill principle. Under current law, the standstill principle is incorporated into the Environmental Management Act. It's about environmental quality requirements. It follows from that article that if there is a quality requirement but the actual quality of that aspect in an area is better, then the actual quality must be taken into account. That makes sense to me. However, the Environment Act did not choose to take over this rule by declaring it applicable to the environmental values. That seems to us to be a deterioration, but I would like to be persuaded by the Minister that this is not the case. Mr. Chairman. Something new in this introduction law is the cut between the building permit and the spatial permit on the one hand. From the field we hear concerns about that. Isn't it more convenient to first examine the spatial constraints before you start the technical elaboration? It is now possible to separate these two routes from each other. Does the Minister agree with me that it might be more convenient to equalize these moments? Depending on the answer, I choose to make an amendment or not. We prepared that amendment. Also new in this Environmental Act is that it is proposed to increase the plan damage limit, from which point you are eligible for compensation, to 5%. That seems undesirable to us. I would very much like to hear from the Minister why she wants to. Then there's another point. In response to Mrs Laan, I indicated that I was an alderman, but I do think that the College of B and W is given a lot of powers in this Environmental Law Introduction Act. That is why I welcome Mrs Van Eijs' amendment, which has already been e-mailed, which ensures that the city council determines which powers are delegated to the college. Mr. Chairman. Then I will continue with the participation, because in our opinion the aspect of participation is not sufficiently highlighted. We find it strange, for example, that the absence of participation is now not a ground for refusal. In addition, "outdoor environmental planning activities" is what a word it is! In other words, simply deviating from the environmental plan, participation is not yet regulated at all. That is why we are in favour of giving municipal councils the possibility of making participation compulsory in advance in certain activities. We are therefore pleased that Mrs Van Eijs has tabled an amendment on this subject, partly on my behalf. In addition, I would like to hear from the Minister how participation is defined in the environmental regulation under consultation. Then we'll move on to the procedure that's being followed. Because with this bill, the regular preparation procedure becomes the starting point. That makes sense, but in practice it is certainly not, especially since it regulates that an administrative body which wants to follow an extensive procedure with much more participation is required by the initiator. That seems to us to be the opposite world. This is an unnecessary, fundamental limitation of the participation opportunities and the freedom of choice of local authorities. We therefore propose that municipalities should be allowed to follow an extensive procedure. There we have the amendment on item No. 14 on the motion for a resolution (Doc.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u10	Before you continue, there is a question from Mrs Van Eijs. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u11	I understand the question that Mr Smeulders is asking here: does this regular procedure, i.e. the short procedure, always offer sufficient guarantees? On the other hand, however, I do feel a bit of a bit of a problem when you come to the front desk as initiator, to put it this way, and I think, "Well, in seven or eight weeks' time, I'll have the permit for my shed or something else," and suddenly it's said: this is going to take six months, because we're going to decide to do the more extensive procedure. Does Mr Smeulders not agree with me that you should have an indication or some kind of clarity in advance as to whether you can expect the regular or the extended procedure to be followed?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u12	I agree with that, but that is why we would also like to give the power to determine this to the municipalities. One might imagine that this is happening in such a way that you already have a bit of a framework; that is the second amendment we are going to table. What's our first preference is for your municipalities to just let go of it completely. If there is no support for that in the House of Representatives, I would like it to be adopted, because I think this is a very important point, and we have a second amendment, which goes a little further. In it we propose to include a number of conditions in the law on the basis of which municipalities may decide. That is established in advance, so that whoever comes to the counter knows at once what he is up to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u13	Finalizing, Mrs. Van Eijs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u14	So you might also feel that I have tabled an amendment which states that the city council must indicate in advance what an extensive procedure and a regular procedure applies.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u15	Yeah, I'd like that. I'm sure I have a thing for that. I am also very interested in the Minister's response to that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u16	There is another question from Mrs Laan-Selschap. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u17	When I listen to Mr Smeulders' story in this way, I understand that GroenLinks has declared a new sense of standard in this legislative procedure. Do you really want the confidence in the citizens to apply only to the front desk? The whole idea behind this law was to make initiatives easier in the Netherlands, but I see that you take it back with some of your amendments. How far does your trust in the initiative of Dutch society extend?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u18	I find this interesting. I had a proposal for or mentioned a number of points on local authorities and said that perhaps we should not give them all responsibility, and then Mrs Laan said: you have no confidence in the local authorities. Now I put forward a proposal to give more influence to local authorities and now she comes to me and says: you have no confidence in the citizens. We have a great deal of faith in our inhabitants and our entrepreneurs, but we see that there are simply conflicts of interest in society on a number of points. If there are any conflicts of interest, we think it is important that the government has a strong role in this and that everyone can have a say in it. That is what this amendment is about: that we give people more opportunities to participate and to have a say. I don't think you can argue with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u19	Finalizing, Mrs. Laan-Selschap.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u20	Speaking of people, I am also talking about the drivers in this country, our highly valued colleagues in the country who are working on it every day, so I am certainly not excluding them. But you're suggesting that... I was an alderman myself. Speech, pronunciation, speech, and not much else happens, because everyone is working on each other instead of the beautiful plan that was ahead. To what extent will you now promote this as GroenLinks? In that sense, do you embrace the Environment Act? Because that was the basis of the question we were talking about today, wasn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u21	I think Mrs. Laan is making a bit of a caricature of the Environment Act. I totally understand the line of the Environment Act, but participation is also in line with the Environment Act. With these proposals we want to strengthen participation. Yeah, that could lead to a slightly longer procedure. I totally agree with you, but the idea of the Environment Act was also to involve people at the front in the procedures, so that they go much faster at the back. That is what this is a proposal for. Mr. Chairman. I would like to go a little further on the second amendment that we would like to put forward on this subject. That's a little less far-reaching. I can't look in my mail right now, so I don't know if Bureau Legislation has e-mailed it by now; that could just happen. That amendment has the same objective, namely to give municipalities more freedom to follow an extensive procedure, but the difference with the other amendment is that conditions are set on the basis of which municipalities may use it. This is, for example, an activity which has a significant impact on the living environment, which is expected to have concerns from several stakeholders or where the application shows that stakeholders are not sufficiently involved. Mr. Chairman. As I said to Mrs Laan, speeding up procedures must not be at the expense of the care and predictability of regulations for residents and businesses. With regard to the different decision-making periods, we still have concerns about this. This will allow decisions to enter into force while the objection phase is still ongoing. And the procedure for irreversible activities is even shortened by two weeks in this system. After all, the environmental permit for irreversible activities will enter into force four weeks after publication, while the objection period will continue for another two weeks. That seems to us to be an undesirable situation. Isn't it more logical to align the entry into force with all the other decisions, six weeks? This does not seem unreasonable to us and to us to ensure proper legal protection. I'd like to hear the Minister's views on that. Then we go to my last part, the good execution and the monitoring. These are really essential for the success of this huge government operation. A digital system Environmental Law is perhaps the basis of that. I am therefore very curious to hear from the Minister how the implementation is going and, in fact, the setting up of that digital system. Basic quality requirements and transparency are also very important. We are in favour of setting basic quality requirements for implementation and enforcement at a state level. As far as we are concerned, it sets out the criteria for assessing the quality of implementation and enforcement. I would also like to hear the Minister's views on this point. I would also like to hear from the Minister whether the findings of the investigation carried out under Article 18.24 (1) are made public. That is what we hope for, and it would be nice if the Minister could undertake to do so. That saves us another amendment. Mr. Chairman. I will conclude with a number of questions to the Minister about lessons we hope to draw and draw from similar operations in the recent past. For in recent years there have been decentralisations in the social domain, but also in landscape policy, for example. Various evaluations show that these decentralisations sometimes make it difficult to compare different concepts or monitoring and measurement methods. This makes it difficult or often impossible to get a clear picture at national level. In the context of the system responsibility of the Empire, we believe it is very important that there should be a comparison between governments. For this reason, we are in favour of using the advice of the College of National Advisors, the Landscape Monitor: towards a country-covering system; from SWECO, National Nature Exploration Network and from the General Court, Wayward in the social domain. I would like to mention briefly, for each study, what we consider to be the most important point in this respect. At the first point, the College of National Advisors, the advice to develop a country-covering monitoring system for the landscape in order to follow how the landscape develops. At SWECO about the Nature Network, the observation that there are sometimes large differences between provinces in the method of recording and the boundaries and representation of nature areas, which lacks a uniform rural image. And the opinion of the General Court of Auditors to determine which data collection at local and national level best contributes to overview and insight into the progress and results of the decentralisations and to this end to discuss with the parliament and local authorities in order to come together to a next step. I can see in the decentralisation of the social domain that this is still to be done. Let's settle that in the physical domain now with the Environment Act. I would very much like to hear from the Minister how she looks at these investigations and, above all, how she works on the recommendations. We really think it is very important to be able to see how nature and landscape in the Netherlands are doing in a number of years' time, but on the other hand also whether the introduction of the Environment Act is a success.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u22	Thank you for your input. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Ronnes, who is speaking on behalf of the CDA Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u23	Mr. Chairman. The contours of the Environment Act are gradually becoming more concrete. With the treatment of this introduction law, we are taking another step towards the overall revision of environmental law. That is also necessary, because environmental law has become an incomprehensible patchwork of many laws, AMMs and ministerial regulations, each with different terms, different procedures and different bases. A complete review is a mega operation, but one that is urgently needed. The CDA wishes to draw the government's attention to a number of issues in the process of examining this legislation and, if necessary, to make a number of additional proposals. First of all, that is the balance between protecting and exploiting. We have indicated that there should be sufficient support for the citizen, the government and the judge and that the balance sheet should not go "used." The new law gives a lot of space to use, but everyone realizes that much space for initiative can be an obstacle for others. The Minister writes that powers are limited by the regulatory objectives, such as ensuring safety or protecting health or the environment. We wonder if that will be enough. There is a strong commitment that the balance between protection and exploitation will be monitored in practice and will be part of a legal review. But then we'll be five years away and the damage's already been done. Does the Minister want to reflect on that? Once given space for development, you don't just turn back. Then there's the plan damage. We have also asked about the consequences of the proposed forfait in the event of damage to the plan. To make it clear with an example: if an owner has a three-tonne house, but sees the value falling due to a neighbouring project of a project developer, then the first €15,000 of that damage is for his own account, because a flat rate of 5% is going to apply. We think that's a big deal. In addition, it is positive for the developer and always negative for the ordinary citizen, who lives quietly in his house and sees the value of his house fall unsolicited. We do not think that the argument that case law is on average 5% is decisive. It is precisely now that we, as co-legislator, can determine that we consider a flat rate of at least 2% reasonable; that is the rate that now also applies legally. We propose to apply the old minimum rate of at least 2% from the Regional Planning Act. We think that's enough. We have also tabled an amendment to that effect in respect of item No. 16.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u24	There is a question from Mrs Van Eijs. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u25	Mr Ronnes points out that the argument that it is usually 5% in practice is not enough. But does Mr Ronnes agree with me that the 5% in the front also provides clarity and clarity about what to expect?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u26	It has actually been taken as a starting point that the levels of protection, the legal status that exists, would be taken equally from the old legislation. We see with this new law that we go from 2% to 5%. We are nevertheless in favour of holding the old border, even though we know that in some cases the ruling may differ. But we certainly do not want to throw away the starting point of 2% at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u27	Finalizing, Mrs. Van Eijs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u28	In practice, however, this 2% does not appear to remain 2%, but to go up to 5%. So I can also imagine that, assuming an equal level of legal protection, the level of legal protection of current practice is laid down in the law, or 5%. Then everyone knows what he's up to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u29	As a co-legislator, I would like to send out a clear signal that, at the time when someone's environment is being breached, there is an appropriate plan for compensation. I mentioned the example of someone living in a house and planning a development next to that house, which reduces the value of their home. If we set that limit at 5% at the outset, then we simply find that step very large. That's why we're reenacting it here. Mr President, I shall continue. The law also includes the proposal to shift the point of contact for plan damage to the authorisation and/or start of the activity. We can agree to that, but voting away without compensation if a job has not been used for three years and has not been used for one year will go a long way. Now more or less a period of up to 10 years applies. We share the idea that we can do it faster, but three years really seems too short for us. Why not five, the question is to the Minister. And what if a municipality or province does not want the destination to expire for six years, so the intended development withdraws? Do they have to observe that one year before such a withdrawal can be implemented? Then I come to a not insignificant part and that is the Digital System Environment Act. We have also asked questions about the ICT side of this project. The Minister writes that this spring a first full exercise version of the national provision of the Digital System Environment Act will be available. Then a small group of users can already practice. We would like to hear whether the entire Digital System Environment Act project is still on track, including the budget versus the costs incurred. We would also like to make the appointment with the Minister to inform us immediately if the planning is out of order. The CDA requests that the BIT update the previous report, so that the current situation is reviewed by the BIT. Is the Minister prepared to do this? The question to the Minister is whether she has an idea of whether all parties are now sufficiently taken into account in this transition. Have municipalities, waterboards and provinces been signed up enough? Is the Minister still on schedule with regard to planning? Apart from the DSO, we would like to get a good picture of all the cost effects for municipalities, provinces and water boards of the introduction of the Environment Act. Many municipalities are concerned. There have been numbers going around before, but it is very good to judge them sharply on their value again and to see if that situation is still right at the moment. Can the Minister guarantee that the entire operation will ultimately be cost-neutral for municipalities? Can she give us an insight into what that will look like?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u30	Before you go any further, there is a question from Mr Van Gerven. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u31	The CDA is touching on an important point: the Digital System and how it is going to work out. Does the CDA think with the SP that if it became clear that the municipalities would be facing major acute financial problems, and I mean in the future if they wanted to implement the Digital System of the Environment Act properly, it might be an idea to support the municipalities financially after all?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u32	Our question to the Minister is actually to give that insight. To talk in advance about finance, about how we're going to solve it, is something that I think we shouldn't do. I think that at this stage we need to focus on what the situation is. It is just as you say: we cannot afford to get into trouble in such a large transition municipalities immediately. We will therefore have to have a clear picture of these consequences and find suitable solutions with each other, so that municipalities can get to grips with this Environment Act in an appropriate way, if that is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u33	In conclusion, Mr Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u34	If I can believe the numbers, it's something with eight zeros. So these are substantial amounts and we still have to see in the future whether the new Environment Act will lead to savings. We have seen that the decentralisations, for example of the Social Support Act and the Youth Services Act, have resulted in a lot of extra costs in implementation. So should we not in any way introduce some kind of guarantee there, so that financial considerations can not be the reason why we will not have a proper Digital System in the near future?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u35	It is precisely the concern you are now putting on the table that leads me to bring it up here. I would like to know from the Minister what is happening at the moment, what is happening at the moment with these costs. Are they still in hand, how much is it and how do they immediately fall down with the municipalities and with the other local authorities as water boards and provinces? I'll continue my input. I do so in the area of participation in environmental permits which deviate from the environmental plan. Does the Minister consider that the proposed participation offers sufficient guarantees in the event of major deviations from the environmental plan? Major deviations from the environmental plan will soon be possible through the regular eight-week procedure without adequate involvement of citizens and social institutions. The law as it stands does not oppose it. But participation was one of the important features in the new way of working in the Environment Act. The regular procedure only allows interested parties to object to the decision taken. The adoption procedure of an environmental plan is well-founded with sufficient procedural guarantees... participation and views................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... However, the procedure for applying for an environmental permit which is contrary to the environmental plan does not or hardly know these guarantees. After all, participation is not mandatory when applying for an environmental permit. In our view, the regular preparation procedure does not really provide an adequate opportunity for the submission of views. How does the Minister consider that participation can be sufficiently guaranteed in an environmental permit in breach of the environmental plan? Then there is another point that has already been mentioned by others, but we still have to see if the solution we advocate is exactly the same. This is about the role of the council versus the college and the role of Provincial States versus Deputy States. We believe that the city council should be better placed in a position to deviate from the environmental plan by the College of Mayors and aldermen by granting permits for certain initiatives. Apart from an advisory right, the city council should also have a right of assent in certain cases to be determined by the council itself. We find this on the basis of signals received from municipalities and science since 2017 and on the basis of the letter of Parliament with the Minister's reaction to the NJB article Constitutional landslide in environmental law of 22 October 2018. We see a shift from power to power, read "power" as decision-making power from the council to colleges. That indeed promotes speed, but it runs out of the power of the council. We'd like to keep the council in its power. Another point is the transitional periods. The municipalities will be granted a transitional period of up to three years to draw up an environmental vision. That seems reasonable to us. But how do we deal with municipalities that don't make it? And what's the legal position if there's no environmental vision at the time? All municipalities have to make a new environmental plan. That one plan will have to replace all the zoning plans. We can agree with the approach that a temporary environmental plan with the so-called dowry will automatically be put in place. The transitional period is now set at a maximum of 2029. Seems like a long time. How did the Minister arrive at that time? Why wasn't the trade-off made to put that a little bit closer in the future, for example in 2025? Finally, we are getting signals that the transitional law would not be properly regulated. The switch from establishment to activity does not seem to be in order yet in the transitional law. Has the new system that is now being proposed been tested in practice? For example, we are receiving signals from the province that they are really worried about this in practice. Then I come to the important issue. That's not new. The CDA brought that in earlier with the original legal treatment. Rich, province, water authority and municipality have a general obligation to coordinate. The Council of State points out that the way in which the principle of subsidiarity has been shaped in the Environmental Act is not in order. That is why we are bringing it up again. Article 2.3 sets out the criteria for the subsidiarity weighting to be applied by the state or province in the exercise of its tasks and powers. The exercise of such tasks and powers by the State or province is therefore explicitly linked to this provision. The Council of State doubts whether Article 2.3 provides an essential basis for the limitation of the exercise of powers by the Province and the Empire. This provision only contains undefined open standards. The concepts of "provincial interest" and "national interest" are crucial. From the CDA it has previously been indicated that we find those concepts too blurry. Rich and county can simply saddle municipalities with obligations. That is why we are also in favour of the amendment that changes the definition to "a significant interest' rather than just "an interest'. I come to the right to a fee for commercial pipes. The Obstacles Act Private Law regulates that landowners are entitled to a damage... Mr President, I see...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u36	Yes. I just wanted to let you finish, but I will now give the floor to Mr Smeulders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u37	On the previous point, the significant importance. I am very curious how Mr Ronnes would describe'remarkable' in practice. I understand you're trying to arrange it a little more closely, but "remarkable"... Does the local government decide whether or not it's significant?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u38	I can still remember examples from my own time as alderman, but I also hear new examples. Recently I spoke with a congregation whose alderman told me that it is strange that a province, for example, deals with how much cuub a house is in the outskirts. Whether a house of 750 m or 850 m is being built, what is the importance of this for provincial policy? We do not see that as a significant interest. We therefore also believe that it should be part of the autonomy of that municipality.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u39	In conclusion, Mr Smeulders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u40	That's kind of interesting. Mr Ronnes says, on behalf of the CDA's parliamentary group, 'we do not see this as a significant interest', but what if your amendment is adopted and the Deputy States of the Province do see it as a significant interest? Well, then they can still do it, can't they?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u41	No, because just this legal definition... It's gonna have to turn out, too. I also said that the Council of State had criticism that is not sharp enough what is meant. A "notable interest" is an overriding interest, which is cross-border. It has been described in more detail that something must be significant and that it is not just something one can decide for oneself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u42	At the same time, Mrs. Van Eijs?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u43	Mr Ronnes' words raised questions for me. I will make it in my own contribution later. They're just a little bit about the reverse movement. We get signals from provinces that say: there are things that are transcendental. But then municipalities will have to acknowledge that for themselves. Otherwise, the county has no role, it seems. Or it's not entirely clear; it's actually the same point Mr Ronnes made about unclearness. On the one hand, you could say: should the province interfere? But on the other hand, you could also say: do municipalities always recognise in time that something is cross-border or super-municipal politics? Does Mr Ronnes agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u44	In the end, case law will show exactly where the limit of "significant importance" lies. But let me give you another example, an example that came to my attention. A province had laid down in its regulations how much playground should be at least in a neighborhood. I really think this is a trade-off that should be made by the municipal administration when implementing a zoning plan, an environmental plan. It cannot be that a province house here in Zuid-Holland, in North Holland, in Brabant or in Limburg is 100 kilometers away to determine how much room for manoeuvre there should be in a residential area. Let that be left to the participation, just let what is needed emerge locally. That is exactly what this word "remarkable" is meant for. It's not meant for that kind of example.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u45	Finalizing, Mrs. Van Eijs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u46	I sympathise with Mr Ronnes' examples. The logic seems to me to be in that. But it also works the other way. Does Mr Ronnes agree with me that the case law, as well as the legislation, should perhaps make it clearer that some things lie with the municipalities, but that there are also things that are cross-municipalities, in which the province has a role to play? Think of the regional energy strategy and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u47	This seems to me to be a very good way of making this more precise: what interest belongs to a province or to the Empire, in the relationship between province and empire, and what interest does not? This is a further specification of it, in order to better define that dividing line. Mr. Chairman. I'll get on the fee for commercial pipes. The Private Law on Obstacles regulates that landowners are entitled to compensation if their land is to be used to house, for example, a pipeline. That's compensation for the damage, but what about the damages for an infringement of property rights? Are all the damages, including those due to an infringement of property rights, really being reimbursed? We don't think so. In any case, we have prepared an amendment on it, but we would still like to hear the Minister's response on this point. I come to the request to include the Housing Act in the Environment Act. The Housing Act was not included in the Environment Act. Municipalities and provinces have asked for Chapter 4 of the Housing Act to be introduced. It concerns the activities of housing withdrawals, housing associations, housing formation and splitting into apartment rights. In this way, municipalities can provide area-oriented tailor-made work on the basis of local rules through the environmental plan. The problem of housing is very good for regulating via the environmental plan. The environmental plan offers the possibility to make an integral assessment of the composition of the housing stock. Does the Minister wish to respond to this request from municipalities and provinces and will he finally do so? I understand that this is not one-two-three with a very easy amendment, but are there any moments in the process that ultimately leads to the introduction of the Environment Act, at least when we can do something with it? Then the anchoring of water safety standards in the law. The principles on which we base water safety standards are entirely our own invention. They are, of course, closely linked to being able to survive safely as a country. We consider it logical and desirable to anchor the principles behind safety standards in the law itself. We know that the Environment Act is based on one other principle, namely the principle that the standards are not included in the law but in the AMvBs, but the water safety of our country is so important that we find a legal anchoring necessary. That point is certainly not new. Among other things, it has been discussed extensively in the First Chamber. Together with the Christian Union, we want to ensure through an amendment that the principles behind the water safety standards for the primary quays are incorporated into the Environment Act. Under the current Water Act, standards have not been formally incorporated into the law without reason for dike paths. Finally, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u48	Before you do that, there is a question from Mr Smeulders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u49	Mr Ronnes' last remark really sounds like music to me: we are going to lay down substantive standards in the law. Quite frankly, I have no longer prepared any amendments in this area, because I thought that they would be voted off. The line of the law is that there are no substantive standards in the law. Can Mr Ronnes explain why he is doing so on the subject of water safety and not on other subjects?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u50	Water safety is so important to the Netherlands, given the location, the situation of the Netherlands, that we believe that the standards laid down in the old law should also be given a place in it when it is regulated in the new way. We think this is so important that we are making this proposal here. In the end, it's up to the Chamber if we can get our hands together for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u51	We will wholeheartedly support that, but we will go against the idea of the Environment Act. I can imagine, for example, that we are going to introduce air quality standards, which are also incredibly important to all of us. I sincerely hope that Mr Ronnes will support this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u52	The nuance why you want it or not to be recorded in the law is something else in the case of water safety, I think, because of the direct impact that that can have. By laying it down in the law, we also ensure that that guarantee is reflected in the other laws. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I have a question about the temporary environmental permits. We believe that, under special circumstances, it may be necessary to deviate from an environmental plan for more than ten years. For example, in the event of a housing shortage, an extension of five years may be necessary, so that emergency housing can be built for 15 years, making it possible to operate. Does the Minister share that thought? Would this be possible within existing regulations, but also in the new ones? So much for my first term, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u53	Thank you. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Van Gerven, who speaks on behalf of the SP Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u54	Mr. Chairman. The package I have here, I'll come back later. Today we are talking again about the Environment Act and about its introduction. As a relative newcomer to the treatment of this series of laws, I note that it is a very wonderful journey. We adopt a law and then we adopt another law that deals with the introduction of an already adopted law, at least if the majority of the Second and the First Chamber agree. The Environment Act was passed several years ago, in March 2016, under one of the predecessors of this minister. Nor is it the last law we are going to deal with in the context of what has now been called the biggest system change since the 1848 Constitutional Amendment. The Environment Act has a number of principles that, if you read them listed, are a good commitment. 1. Enhancing visibility, predictability and ease of use of environmental law. 2. A coherent approach to the physical environment. 3. Increasing administrative discretion. 4. Accelerating and improving decision-making on projects in the physical environment. There may be doubts about the third objective, because, as the Minister is undoubtedly aware, the SP Group is not in undivided favour of decentralisation. The other goals sound valuable, especially for municipal councils. But do we achieve the goal of the Environment Act: on the one hand less rules, on the other hand a safe and healthy environment and good environmental quality? Is the balance between exploiting and protecting sufficient in balance? In addition, the democratic nature of the law also plays a role. Are the parties participating in the Environmental Law Game at all risk? Do they have the same possibilities? Or are the initiators who want something at the forefront of the environment, the population or the democratically legitimized governments: local, provincial and rural? Don't we throw away too much democracy with this Environment Act? Democracy can evoke slowness, but if the end result is good, then the SP signs for it. If it's gonna be okay with less rules, it's gonna be okay. But what if there is speed, but the end result is not satisfactory? With us a good result goes for speed. In addition, the big question remains whether the Environment Act leads to faster results. If the rules become less clear, the chances of conflict and juridisation increase. After all, we live in a society where nothing is taken for granted anymore. People who have certain interests in plans that are being developed will come to terms if they do not agree with these plans or are harmed in their own interests. I go into the Hague example of the Binckhorst. There is already working according to the pattern of the Environment Act. Last year the city council of The Hague dealt with an environmental plan new style for the industrial area de Binckhorst. It is two kilometers from here and lies between the stations Hollands Spoor and Laan van Nieuw Oost-Indies and to the left of the A12 when you enter The Hague. This area is being redeveloped. Existing activities are being expanded. There will be homes and office colossals as KPN's disappearing. That is why I have put the promises of the Environment Act into practice and I have put the four principles I have just mentioned in addition to that Binckhorst environmental plan. First, I deal with the last aspect, speeding up and improving decision-making. The Hague City Council already received the preliminary draft of the Binckhorst's environmental plan with six annexes in the spring of 2016. In the year 2017, the real environmental plan for the area was added, with another six annexes. Half a year later, which is now a year ago, the amount of paper was expanded with annexes and views 1 to 107 of those involved, factsheets on smell, soil quality and sound, and reports on ladder support for retail, creative industry, premises and even living. The members of the Council of the SP took part in five technical briefings, several meetings in committee and spoke to the authors of views. Our council members are not dirty with reading and certainly not talking to citizens and entrepreneurs about the layout of their city or village; quite the contrary. But thousands of pages, more than 80 hours of meetings and still being put under pressure by coalition parties to get a plan that makes fundamental changes in The Hague through as soon as possible, that cannot be said to be an improvement. Here next to me you will see a pile of 5,000 pages about the Binckhorst. I brought the whole package. I'll leave it here, Minister. Of course, it's about the image. I ask the Minister: this can't be true, can it? Who read all those 5,000 pages? Who can judge all that? And does this bring democracy to its own? I would like a response to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u55	How thick does the colleague of the SP think that the package would have been if it had all been zoning plans with accompanying drawings?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u56	I think it would have been less and better. I'll get back to you on that. The point is that you set open standards and remove all kinds of rules. For this plan new rules or ideas need to be developed and designed. I mentioned the elements to you. I'll be honest with you that I didn't read all those 5,000 pages, of course. That's unexploited work. But I give this as an example of what is already happening in practice in a municipality that should be considered capable of carrying it out. If The Hague couldn't do it, it would be very complicated. I'm showing you how incredibly much paperwork and I know what this has been all about. I shall therefore also refer this to the Minister so that she can give her thoughts on this matter. Because I don't think this was the intention of the Environment Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u57	I was one of the council members who used to read stuff like that all the time. My question to my colleague is as follows. You are also suggesting once again that your partymates are being pressured by a coalition. I would like to hear that in your story, because that is a nasty suggestion about the progress of democracy in the city of The Hague. I do not know them like that, nor would I like to leave it in the Minutes of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u58	I checked it out. These are procedural meetings. The whole coalition was called up to get this plan dealt with as soon as possible, while a number of groups wanted to look at it again, because it was an important change in the city of The Hague. That's what I'm pointing out. That is not good for the democratic process; I would just like to point that out. Then increase the clarity, predictability and right of use of environmental law. I wonder to a large extent who will improve clarity, predictability and ease of use. I take the Hague Environmental Plan as another example. I do not see how, for municipal democracy, environmental law has become more transparent, predictable and easier to use, let alone for ordinary citizens or small businessmen, who cannot be advised by law firms. The transitional law in this law, also called "the dowry," remains in force, but the open standards in the system of the Environment Act are worrying for my group. How does the Minister ensure that this clarity, predictability and ease of use actually improve when each municipality is allowed to set its own rules, sometimes even at the level of neighbourhoods, when these rules are now set nationwide? And does the Minister share the view that this is particularly useful for law firms and consultancy firms or project developers? If she looks at the views of stakeholders at the Binckhorst, she may notice that many of them have hired law firms. Mr. Chairman. A coherent approach to the physical environment is envisaged by the system change. This suggests that in the existing situation, where many standards are laid down in laws and regulations, there is no or little coherence. I ask the Minister whether cohesion will improve if each municipality sets its own standards, perhaps even contrary to the standards applied by neighbouring municipalities. What instruments do municipalities also have to combat impoverishment of the environment? At present, it is prohibited by law to allow buildings to survive if they are seriously contrary to reasonable welfare requirements. In the new law, the whole criterion of "well-being" disappears and municipalities are given the possibility to lay down rules, but there is no obligation. What can a municipality do if it does not lay down rules for certain areas, while the buildings here are neglected? Does this municipality still have an opportunity to intervene or should it amend the environmental plan for this purpose? And does she also have to compensate for the damage to the plan, because the municipality did not say that a building should not desecrate the neighborhood? In other words, how does this law ensure that a reasonable level of wealth is maintained? I am very concerned about this and I also have an amendment on this. I don't know if it's already been filed, but otherwise it's gonna be during the day. The aim of the Environment Act, which I see best served with this introduction law and also with the Hague environmental plan, is to increase the administrative balancing area. The open standards that will increasingly become part of municipal policy at the end of transitional law do indeed offer the municipalities more scope for consideration, but how does the Minister ensure that democratic control over the use of this balancing area is maintained? As I said, the Hague City Council has spent months working on something that could have made it much easier to arrange or go through with a regular zoning change, without having to fill in open standards and without having to employ expensive law firms. And then The Hague is a city with 0.5 million inhabitants and 45 city council members, who receive considerable compensation for this. If you compare that to a small town, how will it go there? Are civil servants and council members there supported by its ministry when for the first time such a new environmental plan is being dealt with? The Environmental Act is also partly based on digitalisation. Much is hanged by the Digital System Environment Act. Also on this I can say that it sounds nice if it works well. However, the government's relationship with ICT is questionable. The Committee on the Interior has recently organised a round table on this subject. As a Chamber, we are always told that things are moving in the right direction, but what is the situation with the municipalities that have not even started to connect to the Digital System Environment Act? I understand that a lot of tests are being carried out, but that next year every municipality will actually have to be connected to make the system work. How does the Minister estimate this? How many municipalities are already connected and what will they do if municipalities fail? Is she going to help them somehow, whether financially or not? Because something so central to the new licensing practice can hardly be left without central control. So I ask the Minister to clarify her role in this. And is it not wise to set up a transition fund, to compensate local authorities if it gets out of hand with the implementation of the law and digitisation? Any transition to another system is accompanied by transition costs. I think that we should do something with that. I know it's been decided and agreed differently, but I think this is a huge risk. Money must not be the reason why it is not a good law. We have seen that in the decentralisation of the Social Support and Youth Services Act, this has caused a lot of headaches for municipalities, health institutions and citizens, as well as an increase in bureaucracy. After four years, that case is still out of order. That must be a big warning when we're talking about the Environment Act, right? What about the other knowledge in the municipalities? I have just mentioned all the standards which, with the dowry for transitional law, are to be partly determined by municipalities. Do the municipalities have the knowledge to establish these open standards? And what about the other aspects of the decentralisation that is taking place with the Environment Act? Last Friday I looked at the number of vacancies in relation to the Environment Act. It is unbelievable, or perhaps it is: these vacancies existed for a considerable part at consultancy offices. That was 3,000 vacancies, I understand. That must be extremely worrying, especially if you compare this with the hiring that the municipalities have done in decentralisation in care, with the Social Support Act? Do the municipalities have sufficient quality staff? Can they get that at this transition or are all these people at expensive consulting agencies? And can the Minister indicate what is still acceptable to her when it comes to the hiring of consultants for the implementation of the Environmental Act? Is it prepared to extend the national Roemer standard to a maximum of 10% of the costs to externally employed persons as well as to expenditure incurred in the implementation of the Environmental Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u59	Before you continue, there is a question from Mrs Van Eijs. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u60	Do I hear my colleague say that a municipality that is not able to find sufficient staff is therefore not allowed to hire someone from a consultancy to help with this? Isn't that what you're doing to the municipality?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u61	I'd like to maximize that. Of course, I understand that we are the national government here and that of course you also have a local government. But this Roemer norm that we agreed in the Lower House for the ministries, forces the ministries themselves to bring quality into their homes and develop it. Hence my question to the Minister as to whether she would like to advocate this and try to organise it with the municipalities. Because as a government, we should not be dependent on consultancy and consultancy agencies. We will, especially when it comes to the Environment Act, have to develop quality in our own home with all kinds of difficult paths. We shouldn't surrender to expensive consulting agencies.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u62	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u63	It all sounds nice, quality at home, but my colleague just indicated that there are 3,000 vacancies. Small towns must really have it from someone who comes to help, who comes to teach, help and support the rest of the staff. And now I hear the SP say, "I'm gonna maximize that." In other words, I don't allow these municipalities to attract staff, because there isn't, and they're not allowed to hire consultants, so they're just figuring it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u64	No, you interpret it a little suggestive; let me put it this way. I'm only arguing for the following. There's a huge shortage of staff. This applies to the municipalities, which, of course, also have to develop this capacity. I therefore call for the municipalities that are going to develop and become attractive employers, so that not all the good-looking heads get to the consultancy offices and we have to hire them for expensive money. That's what I'm advocating. Such a standard can help, because it forces it to attract its own staff against decent working conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u65	Mr Van Gerven very much links the staff shortage to the Environment Act, but isn't it true that there is actually a shortage of expertise in spatial planning and that the Environment Act, for example, by further digitizing certain activities and simplifying and modernising regulations, offers room for more quality with fewer people?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u66	I would like to remind the CDA once again of this package here next to me. I still have to see it all. I have not for nothing talked about the huge number of job vacancies that seem to exist in the area of spatial planning. I still have to see if it all gets simpler, simpler and better. We hope, of course, that that is the outcome of this law, but I have a very hard head in it. We replace all kinds of existing standards, laws and rules with something new. It takes a lot of crumbs to develop all that, because there are a lot of open standards. I think that, for the next five to ten years at least, more than less staff will be needed. Hence my idea, which I have already suggested in an interrupting debate with you, of creating a transition fund to provide municipalities with better financial opportunities to attract good staff.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u67	Finalizing, Mr. Ronnes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u68	You give me some concern because you just said in your speech that you believe that the Environment Act is ultimately meant to make it more insightful and less real and to make it more practical and easier through automation. I think we can find each other on that. I'm glad you made that clear. What I do worry about is that you are looking for the solution in funds and money. In my view, it also has to do with a shortage of people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u69	Certainly, there is a shortage of people, but I do not think that money should be a reason for municipalities not to employ qualified staff if they can find it. The idea that a computer requires fewer people is a broader one. That effect is often overrated. I hope it will be true, but I still have to see if that is indeed the case. Then there is the question of open standards. I would like to ask the Minister what standards are and are not set nationally. The transitional law contains a large number of standards which remain in force temporarily in the case of projects authorised under the current regime. What are the standards for not providing a national minimum level of protection, especially in the area of health and the environment? For my group, it is extremely important that municipalities do not compete with each other with the weakest environmental protection requirements. In fact, I would like to propose that the environmental standards should be based on health-related advisory values. Standards are now a balance between health aspects on the one hand and economic considerations on the other. What does the Minister think about using health-related advice as a starting point, from which local authorities can only deviate with a clear and local-based motivation? Mr. Chairman. I have tabled a number of amendments. First of all, one on the advisory committee, a kind of welfare committee. The introduction law obliges the municipality to set up an advisory committee for national monuments, but that is all. We believe that this should be broader. We have an amendment ready for that. With regard to Florence, GroenLinks has already paid off. We support that, of course. We also had an amendment to that effect. We believe that there should be no division between the technical aspects of construction on the one hand and the planning or spatial permit on the other. We would like to know whether the Minister would not want to do so in the end. I have other amendments, but I think the content of them goes without saying. Finally. My input shows that the SP Group has a hard head in how the implementation of the Environment Act is going. You can see that the criticism from society is limited for the time being. For many it is not clear what this means in practice. I think that is one of the reasons why there is relatively little resurrection about this. The SP Group's commitment is to repair much that we do not think is right about this law. If we abolish all kinds of laws, we must prevent the child from being thrown away with the bath water. Mr President, my last sentence is that good laws and good rules are of benefit to society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u70	Thank you. Finally, a question from Mrs Laan-Selschap.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u71	The last words of Mr Van Gerven are taken from my heart: of course good laws! In general, can I conclude that during the previous periods the SP was always enthusiastic about the implementation of the Environmental Act and had a positive tone and a positive basic attitude, but that the SP now formulates a not so positive basic attitude towards the whole law? Or am I wrong about that? That would be very nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u72	You're getting that right. We voted in favour, despite the fact that it was a liberal law that we were not in favour of. I have memorized the contribution of my colleague, Mr Voortman, and I am borrowing it now. Linda Voortman gave an explanation of vote and explained why GroenLinks voted against the law. We had exactly the same objections, but in the end we voted in favour, in particular because of the health aspect of the Smaling amendment. But it was a dime on his side. It could have fallen the other way. We've been three years and we don't see it moving in the right direction. If this continues, we now tend not to agree to the introduction law. But we'll see. Of course, we still have a debate to discuss and there are a number of amendments before us. That is what our final position depends on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u73	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u74	Should all the amendments be adopted, then you will vote in favour?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u75	Yes, at least the amendments tabled by the SP and the opposition. I think there are some good amendments to that. But we'll see. I'm curious. At least I'm putting my hand out to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u76	You were at the end of your speech. You're taking your package back with you. Thank you. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Kops. He speaks on behalf of the PVV Group. Go ahead!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u77	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A few years ago, the Environment Act was adopted. This brings together existing laws, including for building, environment, water, spatial order and nature, in one law. In short, the aim is to simplify and accelerate spatial projects such as housing. At present environmental law consists of dozens of laws and hundreds of regulations. An integral and simpler environmental law is the intention of the Environmental Law, according to the Minister himself. For citizens and businesses, the Environment Act has several advantages. For example, there will be a single point of contact where they can report if they want to start a project. Today we are talking specifically about the Introduction Act Environment Act. This includes, among other things, the foundations for the Digital System Environment Act. That is the window where citizens and businesses can end up. They can apply for a licence there, but they can also see in concrete terms what rules apply to them when. As mentioned above, the Environment Act should lead to shorter and simpler procedures, but also to lower burdens. In the explanatory memorandum, the Minister states that the impact on citizens and businesses is estimated at an annual amount of 29-63 million in administrative burden reduction. That's pretty broad: 29 to 63 million. I understand that research firm Sira Consulting has come to these numbers, but could the Minister perhaps explain this again? Quite specifically: how much is it for an individual citizen in his or her wallet? Does the minister have a visual on that? I'd like a response. The Minister has indicated that he will release €90 million in order to be able to introduce the Environment Act as of 1 January 2021. Can the Minister explain that again? Because the explanatory memorandum states that municipalities face one-off costs of 4.7 to 8 million. How are we supposed to see that? And what setbacks does the Minister expect? Mr Van Gerven also said that we know that there are disappointments in the government with regard to ICT. The Environmental Law is a so-called framework law, in which material standards are largely lacking. The implementation of these standards will later be governed by general administrative measures. An interesting article was published in the Dutch Juristenblad on 30 March 2018, including the transfer of jurisdiction. The normalization shifts from the formal legislature, namely the Second and First Chambers, to the executive power, i.e. the government. Lawyers are talking about a lack of democratic legitimacy. Admittedly, Article 22.5 in the Environment Act compensates for this. That article states that AMVBs should be placed before the Chambers. Fine, but what's that worth in practice? In her letter, the Minister himself states that the Chambers may then have an exchange of views on the AMvB with the person responsible, but the right of amendment is lacking. Of course, motions can then be tabled, but everything has been said; the Chambers cannot do anything else. The Minister writes that the involvement of the Chambers will continue and that this involvement can indeed lead to adjustments of, in this case, the AMvBs. Yes, that is a promise; no more and no less. The PVV asks these questions because of the following. Why didn't the Minister choose to take the Environmental Management Act as an example? That's what I'm talking about. Under the Environmental Management Act, the Chambers can express themselves within four weeks about an advanced AMvB. And if at least one fifth of the constitutional number of members of one of the Chambers requires the AMvB to be regulated by law, that happens. Then there will be a legislative proposal, which can then be amended and finally put to the vote. Why doesn't the Minister allow this to apply to all AMvBs? What does the Minister have to fear about that? Can the Minister explain that again? Mr President, it is precisely the AMVBs who can in practice ensure that citizens get things pushed down their throats that they are not waiting for at all: wind farms, asylum seekers' centres, mosques. Can the Minister guarantee that the Environment Act will not be abused for this? So once again, for the sake of clarity, can the Minister rule out the abuse of the Environment Act for the realisation of wind farms, asylum seekers' centres and mosques? The PVV is considering a motion on this point in the second term. Nor are we excluding an amendment which is still in the process of being adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u78	Thank you. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Nijboer. Mr Nijboer will speak on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u79	After all, the colleague of the PVV dragged them into a spatial planning law: the asylum seekers, who did it all. I thought it was a very clear statement. Mr. Chairman. I would like to ask the Minister to respond to three points of the Environment Act itself and three points that are very close to that. First of all, the Environment Act itself. Colleagues have already mentioned it: it is quite a pile of papers. This could also be a huge pile of paperwork; Mr Van Gerven just came up with a whole copy box. So it's very comprehensive. I would like to take three main points out, because you can discuss everything, but that often does not clarify the debate. My first main point is what the Council of State also indicates. It says: there are a lot of powers being decentralised, mainly to municipalities, but also to provinces, and the Empire is also interfering a bit, but how can you be sure that those with whom you apply for a permit are really about it; is that clearly invested enough? This is also a little related to the point that the PVV has just raised: how does it relate to all the general measures of governance that are going to come underneath? It has been quite a comprehensive package of legislation. It is important that everyone knows where he is when he wants something, whether it is an entrepreneur who wants to start a factory, a wind farm, a nature park or someone who wants something with his house or wants to build a road. Then it's important that you know what's happening or what you need. Of course, governments have to work together. I understand all that, but it is important that you finally have clear who is responsible for what. That is the key point that the Council of State makes in its opinion. The government's response could still gain some clarity. I ask the Minister to give it to us in this debate. My second point, which has already been made by Mr Smeulders, is why the landscape is not better legally anchored. There would have been a good chance. I also saw a beautiful amendment, in which I have warm feelings. I want the Minister to stop. My third point is related to what the Council of State has said, but just at another level, and is about the influence of city council members. Several speakers before me went into this and I also saw an amendment on this from the CDA, D66 and the Christian Union. Who's finally gonna pass? Doesn't the board have too many powers? Isn't there something in it to look at democracy at local level? The PVV has just made a very sensible comment on the general measures of governance at national level. But is democratic accountability also optimally invested locally, or could it not be better? Fortunately, the Minister of the Interior is the Minister of the Interior. It is about local democracy and the functioning of democracy, so it can certainly provide a thorough answer. Mr. Chairman. I come to three connecting points. I will not say that it is his life's work, but my colleague De Vries has been working for years in the Environment Act and further improving and shaping it. One of the most important points he has raised is that health also plays a role. That would be further worked out, and it will be. I'm asking the Minister what's going on with that. It concerns, for example, health in relation to an outbreak of Q fever or if there are problems with pur. My colleague has done a great deal of work for this. How's that going? Then there is my second point. There's a lot in the law about plan damage. I will look at Mr Ronnes' amendments, because there is quite a bit to say for 5%, but also for 2%, so I have not yet determined a final position on behalf of the PvdA Group. But there are also often planning benefits. Actually, that's totally missing. You can take poison that after the construction of a metro line, the buildings around it will be worth much and much more. If you build very nice roads and facilities with public money, land can become much more valuable. This also applies, of course, to destinations and land. Has that side of the case been looked at, too? And shouldn't much more initiative be taken, including from the Empire, and there shouldn't be much more opportunities to exploit these planning benefits also for the benefit of the collective? I'm asking the Minister to go into that. More specifically, I have also put forward proposals in the article that I have already handed over to the Minister in a debate on residence. That's actually about building duty. We also want more construction and speed to be made. Of course, this law can also play a role in this. If speculators stay on that ground, shouldn't you be introducing a construction obligation? How does the Minister view this? Those were three points I would like to point out to the Minister. Finally, I have one question about the budget. This has just been discussed. The Minister inherited a financial corpse in the closet with the Environment Act, which she took over from that other department. That corpse is partly complicated again, because some money has been made available for it. But in my view, it hasn't been completely solved yet. 200 million would go hand in hand with the introduction of the Environment Act. Some tens of millions have been earmarked for it, but it is not yet fully covered. So, what's the deal with that? Does the Minister still have that gaping hole in the budget? Is that body still lying there? Or has that been laid out by now? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u80	Thank you. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Bishop. He is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u81	Thank you, Mr President. The Environment Act. If I follow that whole process, it can still unleash warm feelings inside me. A planology focused on giving space to desired developments, less poaching, less thinking in boxes and a good protection of the environment: they are ambitions that you can only embrace. However, the SGP intends to formulate a number of concerns and questions in this implementation law. I would like to add a few points to a number of my fellow Members, but I would like to make the point very clear. First of all, the position of the city council. So far, municipal authorities can only deviate from a zoning plan with the agreement of the city council. However, the Environment Act introduces the power to grant an authorisation for a derogation from the environmental plan to the college. Municipal councils can only give an opinion on it. A similar figure applies to the provinces. That means a much less strong position of councils and states. Why did the government choose this? Then the temptation is great to say that it simply leads to less poaching decision-making. All this must be true, but there is a weakening of the democratic position of the elected bodies. I would like to hear the Minister's reflection on that consideration. Why is that designed like this? Then the compensation for the shadow damage. The SGP is not satisfied with the way in which the cabinet deals with shadow damage and indirect planning damage. The cabinet shifts the moment of determination of loss of value and of the corresponding damages: from the planning stage to the moment of authorisation or action. On top of that, there is not a conservative estimate of the normal social risk, namely a flat rate of 2%, as my fellow Members have already pointed out, but an increase in the standard rate of 5%. The Council of State is, in our opinion, quite rightly extremely critical of this. An environment vision can advance all its shadows and influence the value of homes and the opportunities for business development, and an environment plan much more. In practice, citizens and businesses face more shadow damage and indirect planning damage, without being entitled to compensation. The Minister states that the impact of the environmental plan on interim value fluctuations will be limited. In general, that's probably the case. In special cases, however, this may be different. With 355 municipalities and 7 million buildings, this number of special cases can still be high. That is why we cannot settle for the Minister's reasoning. The Minister indicated that it would be desirable for environmental plans to be completed globally and that compensation for damage to plans would hinder this. That is indeed an argument. The point is that even if an environmental plan on parts is filled in concretely, you still have no right to plan damages. Is the Minister prepared to look for a middle way between the current situation with compensation for indirect planning damage and a minimum margin of 2%, and the hard, new line, namely: no compensation for indirect planning damage and a flat rate of 5%? Well, I'm not talking about the shadow damage from environmental visions. I propose that a working group of experts be set up to examine this part of the Environment Act in depth, also hearing and reading the criticisms of the Council of State, and thus reaching a good middle ground. Remember that the prospect of a reasonable concession can improve the cooperation of the parties in spatial development, with the associated desired acceleration. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the issue of a usage fee in the event of a tolerance obligation. Landowners must in many cases tolerate the drawing of pipes and cables through their land. If the parties concerned do not come together, there is a duty of tolerance. Landowners will then receive full compensation. The question is whether a user fee should be granted on top of that. The government says no in all cases, but I think we should cut it here. When it comes to public ownership and price regulation, I understand the view that no use fee is granted. But when it comes to pipes or works for which this is not the case and where there is clear commercial interests, so private parties that simply make profits, I think it is a different story. Together with the CDA, we have prepared an amendment to grant a use fee in these cases in addition to compensation. Thus, no use fee when it comes to gas pipelines from the Gasunie and Enexis electricity cables, but a usage fee when it comes to cooling water pipes for Google's data centre and Vermilion's gas production network. Mr. Chairman. Transitional right. The transition to working under the Environmental Act will be a big deal for entrepreneurs and municipalities. For a large part, this is also in the transition itself, in the transitional law. The wording of the new requirements is often slightly different from that of the current requirements. My question to the Minister is: can companies assume that if they now fully comply with current regulations, they will be free from enforcement actions and other unpleasant surprises? Is there going to be a clear package leaflet for entrepreneurs on the transitional right so that they know where they are going? We are also getting some worried reactions from entrepreneurs who fear going into discussions with enforcement agencies about the interpretation of rules. My question to the Minister is: is there going to be a package leaflet for the enforcers, particularly with regard to the right of transition? Mr. Chairman. The Digital System Environment Act has already been discussed in detail, including by the colleague of the CDA, but also by other colleagues. I would like to underline one thing. We find that entrepreneurs, especially SMEs, are still concerned about this. They do not have a separate ICT department or administrative department. My question is whether the Minister would like to have a check on whether the Digital System Environmental Law is SME proof. I'd like to hear a response to that. Mr. Chairman. Finally, a call: let the bell ring. To date, noise at worship and funerals, be it bell-like or psalm-like, is a national exception to the noise rules. The government wants to leave that to municipalities when the Environment Act is introduced. From the point of view of decentralisation, you might be able to say something about that, but I question that, because this also affects freedom of religion. We want to avoid questioning here and there, psalmengsang or whatever. Is that allowed, or is that not allowed? To what extent is it allowed? My question to the Minister is whether she is prepared to withdraw from this and maintain the existing exemption. Mr. Chairman. I had another point, about air quality, but I'm gonna leave that for the sake of time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u82	I would also like to thank you for your input and to give the floor to Mrs Van Eijs. Mrs Van Eijs speaks on behalf of the D66 Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u83	Mr. Chairman. The Introduction Act of the Environment Act is a puzzle piece in the new spatial planning system. The size of this puzzle piece, I think, is a specimen on Mrs Laan's table, and all the other pieces that have come and are about to come, indicate what a big operation this is. Mostly that takes place under the radar. The vast majority of people look a little glazed at me when I say I'm dealing with the Environment Act. The world is going on quietly and the Netherlands is going on quietly with what it was doing, while we turn the way in which we organize the scarce space in the Netherlands with each other upside down. That is a pity on the one hand, because it is a matter of substance. It is about participation, about participation, about the right to find something and how we deal with it, about how we balance sometimes conflicting interests and how we make interests, rights and regulations visible, not just to the professional but to everyone. It's about how we weigh different interests: the economic interests, things that create bread on the shelf, but also more vulnerable goals such as biodiversity and people's health, now and in the future; the balance between protecting and exploiting. And when it comes to the layout of our country, how we are going to give a place to all future developments. How do we convert our fossil energy supply, which came from the bottom, into a clean energy supply that does require space? These are fundamental questions, which it is a pity that they seem to pass on to a large part of the Netherlands. On the other hand, this is, of course, a technical system change, which should facilitate initiatives and be supportive and carefree of technology. So the average resident or entrepreneur should not have to worry and so everyone in the Netherlands should simply continue with all the things he was doing. D66 wonders: will that be the case when the introduction is there? Will that go as effortlessly and quietly as possible? As spokesman for D66, I shall begin with what I shall put under the heading of 'democratic content'. What about the influence of all stakeholders? The beauty of the spirit of the Environment Act as it has been through the Netherlands for some time now, is that working in the spirit of the Environment Act is often translated into an integral view of issues, so all aspects together. Also applies that more alignment at the front, hassle at the back. In other words, if the initiator were to talk to the neighbors about parking before all plans are already signed in with pen, they wouldn't have to get in the rifle if the workers were already ready. "Citizen participation" is what we call it. Of course, D66 is very much in favour of this. Although there is a lot of participation in the spirit of the law, we don't see it everywhere in the letter. For example, an initiator is obliged to show what he or she has done to participation or participation and what has changed, but what it should look like is not prescribed. That is not very strange, because one project is not the other. Customization in how to take stakeholders is therefore important. You don't want a nice legally boarded list that just gets ticked off. Nevertheless, I am looking for a way not to let participation become a dead letter, a stick behind the door for parties who do not take this seriously. At present, municipalities cannot include participation in the assessment of an application for authorisation. That is why I am tabling an amendment to make this possible. This allows a city council to decide for itself in which cases it wishes to make demands on citizen participation. Of course, this is not necessary for every application to the same extent. Another way to involve people more in the spatial planning of their environment is by providing them with insight into it. The Digital System Environment Act should not only make it easier for professionals to understand what the rules and plans are, but also for residents and entrepreneurs who do not deal with them on a daily basis. D66 is concerned about the accessibility of the DSO. Is it really understandable for someone who hasn't studied for this? Is it user-friendly? What about the tough language? I myself am not really happy reading the many pieces for this debate and I hope that the DSO will be better connected to the language of the vast majority of the Netherlands. Then there are a few more concerns about the DSO. For example, we were wondering whether all municipalities and other governments are obliged to join the DSO and, if so, when. Or are there opportunities for them to get out of this? How are they going to structure their share of the information in such a way that it will fit well into the national fabric? Are we all going to use the same terms? This is also essential for monitoring and evaluation, otherwise it will be difficult to compare apples with apples. Another not negligible part of democracy is the city council. This has just been referred to by many colleagues. The transition to the Environmental Act was also called the fourth decentralisation. Much more than before, municipalities are given the freedom to deliver customised local services. But the municipality consists of more than the college of mayor and aldermen. The highest boss of the municipality is the city council and that is not everywhere equally beautiful in position in this law. The establishment of the comprehensive environmental plan is really going to be quite a job and I very much hope that the municipal councils will be given extra support for this. Let us assume for a moment that they have gone through a beautiful process and approved such a beautiful plan. Suppose there is an initiator who wants to deviate from this plan. Then there is a good chance that the regular short authorisation procedure will be used. That means decision-making quickly, but also a lot less guarantee. And the council is out of play, on the sidelines. This is not so serious for some applications, like for a driveway or a shed, but that environmental plan was of course nothing for nothing. In the case of major developments or plans with major impact, the board might want to have more to say or build in a lot more safeguards.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u84	A number of colleagues had already referred to this point. My question to the honourable Member is what she thinks, and it is also from the local government that a college takes a certain decision that the majority of the city council does not agree with.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u85	That depends a little on whether they see that decision coming by at all and to what extent they still have some resources at the time. They may be sputtering, but the question is whether the city council actually has tools, handles, to do something with.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u86	I note only that if a college takes a decision that the majority of the city council does not agree with, which I believe has far-reaching consequences at local level. That is, by the way, daily practice here in the Chamber. You don't see any correlation between that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u87	It seems to me that in a number of cases the city council is still the top boss and should therefore have the last word. That's what I'm trying to do with my amendment. In doing so, I want to ensure that the city council actually gets that position or can at least take that position. That is why the amendment to make it possible. The city council decides in advance, so clearly for everyone, on what kind of out-of-plan permit applications he wants to follow the extended procedure and when he wants permission. The local customization shows how much of the final functioning of the Environment Act in this entire system depends on local practice. Besides much desired customization, there are also concerns. D66 is concerned about the balance between protecting and exploiting, because how will municipalities be able to balance all kinds of interests? It is sometimes difficult to weigh a long-term interest against a short-term interest, for example. A very practical and good suggestion we therefore found the idea to help municipalities to weigh the interests well. This could be achieved by drawing up a guide for municipalities in order to better weigh health and environmental aspects in their decision-making. How does the Minister view that proposal, which was also made by the Health Council? In any case, municipalities must make a huge impact on the introduction of this new system. We're worried that all of that is going to go well. We also noticed the following in the opinion of the Council of State. When considering a regular or extended authorisation procedure, the existing Wabo criterion on environmental and health impacts is not taken into account. The argument is that many environmental aspects are also regulated in the environmental plan. But how is it now ensured that a permit for something that can cause damage to the environment and health goes through the extended procedure, I ask the Minister? We also call for attention to be paid to filling standards or to reducing the quality of areas to the legal minimum. Isn't it undesirable that by offering space we lower the quality in our environment? Why was it not chosen to incorporate the so-called standstill principle into the new legislation? How the balance sheet will ultimately fall out will have to show the practice. As far as D66 is concerned, we will have to monitor this carefully and amend the law if the fragile long-term goals, such as the environment and human health, are at stake. How will the Minister keep his finger on the pulse and take action when the balance is threatened? Decentralisation in the Environmental Act also raises the question of how cross-border cases will be dealt with, first and foremost between municipalities. They have to see for themselves that certain matters go beyond the municipal level. Then they must seek coordination and cooperation. Of course, that happens many times already, but what happens if municipalities do not see that transcendental interest or do not come together?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u88	Before you proceed, there is a question from Mr Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u89	I would like to come back to the previous point. That was the element of the Health Council that D66 introduced. Now the Health Council has advocated applying health-based standards: health-based baselines. They are generally a bit sharper than the standards we know, because existing standards are a balance between health and the economy. Does D66 agree with the Health Council's view that health advisory values should be taken into account?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u90	In the environmental sector, we also talk about this a lot. I believe that we are always looking at what is the minimum legal basis and how it could be even better. For example, we are now striving for European standards in the field of air quality, as they are enshrined in the law and WTO standards. In my view, we generally look at health standards in this way. You propose that it be laid down in the law now, but that is not how the Environment Act is built. So I wouldn't argue that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u91	Of course, we can arrange that. Mrs Van Eijs rightly says that these WTO standards are a little more stringent, for example. In the case of existing standards there is still a disease burden in the order of 6%. If we were to improve these standards, we would be able to achieve an average of 6% reduction in the burden of disease in our society. If we all agree that, can we simply take this standard of health as a starting point, in which governments can deviate from it with motivation and with local support? That's not contrary to the Environment Act, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u92	When it comes to the content of such standards, we always run into the question of what can reasonably be asked and what is practical. For example, noise standards can have very large effects on what we in the Netherlands can do together. Can we not live along the tracks, for example, or is that a problem? I think it's too easy to say: we put a standard in the law and so we have 6% less absenteeism. I really think that's too short a turn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u93	There is a question from Mr Smeulders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u94	I can follow Mrs Van Eijs best if she says that it is not in line with the Environment Act to start adopting standards. But we also just saw what happened to Mr. Ronnes, your coalition partner from the CDA. It introduces an amendment to incorporate water safety standards into the law. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u95	Then my first reaction would be that this does not really fit in with how we have all thought of it, because there are indeed no standards in the law now, as Mr Smeulders said. But I'd like to hear why this could be an exception. I don't see it yet, but we're going to take a look at that, of course, and I'm looking forward to the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u96	In conclusion, Mr Smeulders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u97	I am also very interested in the Minister's answer. Suppose the Minister says: I can imagine that we do that for water safety. Is Mrs Van Eijs then prepared to look with me to see if, for example, air quality standards can also be incorporated into the law? Or does D66 perhaps have reasons why it should be in the case of water safety and not in the case of air quality? I don't actually see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u98	I would be happy to take a look at a proposal on air quality, but I think that in principle it has been decided not to include such standards in the Environment Act, so I assume that now. Mr. Chairman. I think I'd have stuck to this. Environmental aspects are also regulated in the environmental plan. Why is the criterion as set out in the Wabo not being taken over? My question to the Minister is: how is it ensured that the permit for something that can cause damage to the environment and health goes through the extended procedure? I'm sorry, this has already been discussed. Where was I? It's a big topic. I would have stayed in cross-border cases, starting with cross-border cases between municipalities. They will have to see for themselves that certain matters go beyond the municipal level. They must seek coordination and cooperation. Of course, that happens all the time. But what happens if municipalities don't see that transcending interest, or they don't come out together? Then it's up to the county, I'd say logically. But can the province proactively use its spatial planning instruments? Can she take control? D66 also likes to think and act internationally. Half of our provinces are bordered by a neighbouring country. What are the consequences of this change in the system for aligning with our neighbouring countries? Some time ago I was in South Limburg, where due to a careless Belgian manure and water policy and poor communication, a whole project to reintroduce brookfora in the Geul was destroyed. How do we prevent nimby behaviour, for example, where windmills are nicely placed close to the border? Speaking of windmills. The energy transition and climate adaptation require space. Does the Environment Act give sufficient scope to all governments to translate the agreements of the climate agreement in a spatial sense? And does the Environment Act provide sufficient space to deal effectively and effectively? When can we expect the announced screening of the new system on this? Mr. Chairman. To sum up, we look forward to the new system that should allow for an integral weighing up and better consultation at the front, but at the same time D66 is concerned about a number of issues. Will civil participation not prove to be a dead letter? Will the balance between protecting and exploiting not break? Will borders prove to be no limitation? And will the energy transition and climate adaptation be given space?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u99	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mrs Laan-Selschap. She speaks on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u100	Mr. Chairman. Once in a while, something really changes in the government landscape of the Netherlands. The three decentralisations in the social domain were such a change. The Environment Act is now one. To come to the realization of this law, we are talking today about the Introduction Act Environment Act. A mouthful, and for outsiders difficult to follow, especially when you realize that we are talking here about the repeal of 14 laws and amendments to 54 other laws. The Act, already approved by the First and Second Chambers, will enter into force on 21 January 2021. That will take some time, but in the meantime a lot of work will be done. The present introduction law allows for further progress. For example, the law makes it possible for a municipality to classify an area as "development area with economic potential'. A resident or entrepreneur with a plan can then go to the municipality, and if it fits in with the frameworks "the big difference is that it does not look where the plan does not fit into the frameworks; so there is a yes-limit attitude instead of a "no-unless" attitude "an initiator can engage in conversation with the actors in the environment." Plans and licences will be grouped together as much as possible, and procedures will be shorter in duration. In doing so, the role of the government changes and these developments are borne together. That's what people expect from a government at this time. That is what makes this law possible. The VVD welcomes the Environmental Law and the change of thinking and doing, which will bring it about at all levels of government. Mr. Chairman. This brings me to my first question. The law will not lead to the desired change after its introduction if the organisational culture in the local authorities is not to change. How does the Minister, together with the VNG, ensure that, in addition to the technical introduction of the law, there is sufficient attention and energy to the implementation of the law? I also have a question about indirect damage, which has already been mentioned by colleagues and which is also explicitly mentioned in the introduction law. The introduction law states that a fixed percentage, 5%, of the depreciation of real estate will not be reimbursed. Can the Minister explain how she has reached this percentage? How do we prevent endless legal proceedings from arising about this? Mr. Chairman. Then the cut that is proposed in the building rules. Municipalities are going to issue a spatial permit for buildings. This is done on the basis of the environmental plan. One question. Do I understand correctly that this spatial permit separates the building technology from the spatial aspects? In short, could it be that someone gets a permit to build a house and that, for example, the materials are not looked at? On what grounds can municipalities still assess spatial quality? In 2015, a motion from the VVD and the PvdA was adopted. what a pity that my colleague is not here for a moment about the setting up of municipal advisory committees that replace the well-known welfare and heritage committees. Can the Minister clarify the state of play so that we can maintain the spatial quality, as we know it in the Netherlands? Mr. Chairman. Another question with regard to the environmental plan. Several municipalities have not yet drawn up an environmental plan. Does the Minister expect this to have an impact on the national construction plan? If so, what will the Minister do to remove these consequences? I just asked all my colleague Van Eijs about the objections that colleagues have about the democratic gap that they believe will arise in the coming period with the introduction of this new law. If a social development is not desirable and is blocked or not appreciated by the majority of the council, it will not go on in my view. But the colleagues see a discrepancy in that. I would like to hear from the Minister how she sees this. As far as we are concerned, we are talking about the theory of law and politics in practice. Some say there is a gap there, but in my view these matters are complementary. Mr. Chairman. The introduction law states that there will be a transitional period of ten years for the environmental plan. Ten years, a whole decade. My question is to what extent it is really necessary and desirable at all. The world looks completely different. Does the Minister see an opportunity to increase the pressure and ensure that only exceptionally these full ten years will be used? Mr. Chairman. Then there is the second letter of amendment and the addition of an entry into force royal decree. Or in understandable language: a "go/no go" moment. This is a very special construction, to say the least, which was added after consultation in the First Chamber. Can the Minister explain why this measure was chosen? To make the Environment Act tangible and to create more insight for the inhabitants, there is a lot to do in this beautiful country. But for everything that can be done, there will be a digital system: the so-called DSO. Colleagues have already referred to this. As we have heard in the technical session on this subject, this system agile is designed. That sounds good, but we stay alert, even with these kinds of terms. Is such an extensive project we are talking about really a need for external expertise? Actually, we think so. Is this expertise also in the house? I ask this because ICT and government are not necessarily happy marriage partners. We all know that. The presentation about the DSO two weeks ago was clear. But is the digital effect of that also? I would like to hear from the Minister when we can actually see a first taste of this system and how she keeps her finger on the wrist in order to avoid problems that have already been raised by other colleagues. The fact that legal language is less self-evident in this environmental system is very appealing to us. Living in a government bubble is nothing more confronting than people who cannot follow the language of the administration. We'll do it for those people. We therefore owe it to them to name parts of the Environment Act so that they are immediately clear to everyone who is confronted with it. My colleague from D66 has already referred to this, and I can fully support that. Mr President, I will conclude. The Environment Act places developments and challenges in the physical environment more at the centre than before. The government will then be less decisive. The administrative culture should focus on cooperation with all players in the field. A beautiful image, in which people with initiative, entrepreneurial spirit and binding power can make this country even more beautiful than it already is, without constantly being trampled on by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u101	Thank you. There is another question from Mr Smeulders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u102	In my opinion, Mrs Laan makes it very clear in her final statement that the Environment Act is really a very large deregulation operation, which the Ministry has always denied. But that's not what my question is about. My question concerns the amendment tabled by Mr Ronnes to add substantive standards to the Water Safety Environment Act, while, in line with the law, it has been chosen to regulate all of this with lower regulations. I was very much wondering how Mrs Laan is looking at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u103	We're gonna hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u104	I would like to leave that question, which you are actually asking Mr Ronnes, to Mr Ronnes. I have not read that amendment in such a way, but we will soon hear how he could explain it. If it were to be an addition in this way, I would not be in favour of it, but I would like to hear his nuance in this amendment. I would add the following on deregulation. I am talking about enthusiasm, initiative and cooperation between many people. If all these people were to agree on this together, I would agree with Mr Smeulder's addition that it is about deregulation. Otherwise I would say: I would define that differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u105	Finalizing, Mr. Smeulders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u106	Definitely finalizing. I think Mrs. Laan also indicated that the government shouldn't get in the way of people. Soon I get the feeling of deregulation, but maybe I'm the only one in it. I think it is a little strange that Mrs Laan says: you should ask Mr Ronnes that question. I also asked Mr Ronnes that question. I can only see that Mr Ronnes, on behalf of the CDA and the Christian Union, two coalition partners, is tabling an amendment that runs counter to the line and purpose of the law. I am very pleased with that, because I want us to go that way and set substantive standards. I'm just very curious to know what you're thinking as your biggest coalition partner.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u107	I never let myself insist that I'm the biggest. I have just put the chair down, because I think I am the smallest in this debate. But I'd like to hear the Minister's views on this. At least our core feelings are that we do not want to add standards. You can indeed hold me as a VVD member to that. We are opposed to any government intervention that is not necessary, but if we agree that there must be rules to keep our country as beautiful as it is, we are also very much in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u108	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I propose that we suspend until 7.15 p.m., then start with the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u109	The next item is the Law of the Environment Act. We've had the first term on the side of the Chamber. I am happy to give the floor to the Minister for the first time. The Minister has the floor. Go ahead. I don't know if you have a structure in the answer. That's what we like to hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u110	Yes, I do, Mr President, and I'm going to give it to you, after, of course, thanking everyone for their input in the first term. It is clear that we are dealing here today with the diehards among Members of Parliament on the issue of legislation. So very much appreciation for all those who have looked into this issue. Some have been doing this for years, others since this cabinet period. It is a rather tough matter and we are indeed facing a major change in the system, where we can take another step together today. Mr. Chairman. I would like to do this by briefly making a few general comments and then answering the questions in the following themes. One: the construction of the Environmental Law System. Two: administrative division of labour. Three: the balance between protecting and exploiting. Four: environmental plan and deviation permit, including the role of the city council and that kind of thing. Five: the so-called cut. Six: participation. Seven: loss compensation. Eight: transitional right. Nine: DSO. Ten: implementation. Eleven: other. I still need the latter, despite this refinement in the answer. But I think it would be good to make a few more general points in advance. Some spokesmen have just done the same. I am truly convinced that it is important what we are doing and that it is important that we are making sure that the Environment Act comes into force and can enter into force. I also notice this with all the visits I made in the country, yesterday in Nijmegen. We are faced with very important social challenges in the Netherlands. We'll do it together. This requires an integrated approach and, in fact, integrated regulation. In my opinion, Mr Ronnes just said in his first term that this reform is actually necessary in order to put an end to the patchwork of rules that we have laid down about the Netherlands. It is also a fact that we face major challenges, also in the atmosphere of the Netherlands. It actually calls for legislation that is up-to-date and for legislation that is more flexible. I think that's what the Environment Act can bring us. We have slowly but surely already gained some experience with this way of working. When we have an Environment Act that applies to the whole of the Netherlands, I think that at the same time we are actually going to do much more justice to the large differences between regions and between municipalities in the Netherlands, that we are actually going to move away from the confection and that we are going to go to customisation. That is why I would also say that this is not a deregulation operation, which has just ended with an interruption debate. I do not believe that anyone in this Chamber wants to see it that way either, because it is a new way of working that gives more room on the one hand, but on the other hand it does give frameworks to the other governments. For example, the four decisions published in the summer of 2018 contain various standards. I am talking about the Decision quality living environment, the Decision building environment, the Decision activities living environment and the Environmental Decree itself. Those standards are very concrete. They can also sometimes contain bandwidths, but they are very concrete. They're about air quality and water quality. At the same time, we offer local consideration space to do justice to those differences, as I said. An example of where we've been trying that out for a while is Rotterdam-Zuid. There, the municipality has put down a very specific order with the residents, the residents of the neighbourhood, together with the municipality to set up the neighborhood. That assignment was also accepted in thanks by the neighborhood residents. So we are talking about the hard side, the stones, housing and businesses, but also about the soft side, about how social cohesion can be promoted and how social problems can be solved. That's actually being done bundled. There are many other examples, in Utrecht, for example, the Merwede Canal Zone, where 10,000 new homes can be added.Of course, that is to use the space that is available while at the same time a lot of attention is paid to protecting the green character of the area. So that's about protecting you. There are many more examples, but I will not list them all. This therefore involves bringing together all aspects, protecting existing interests of citizens and the environment and enabling new developments. That is a good basis for modern governance, I think even when I talk about it with other governments, but I will come back to that in detail later with room for people's involvement. At the same time, it happens in such a way that, for example, the city council, which we all have a high priority, remains in its power. I think that with the new law we will be much better able to put the user at the centre, to encourage participation and also to ensure faster decision-making procedures. That is also appropriate at this time. Because if all this works, we get a regular procedure as the main rule that it should be possible in eight weeks. In many cases, this saves about 18 weeks of lead time. Of course, that's a lot. On the other hand, however, public authorities must pay particular attention to participation, for example, which must be properly organised at the front. That is why it is so important that the design and elaboration of this law not only happens here in The Hague at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in an ivory tower, but that we really do so together with the other governments, i.e. the municipalities, the provinces and the waterboards, and with citizens and companies. That's how we work. In doing so, we are creating a new legal system, but also a different way of thinking and doing things, as Mrs Laan just said, a modern way of working. I therefore think it is important that, despite all the documents before us, Mrs van Eijs and others, we should note that these are quite complex to understand and ultimately make the system as accessible as possible and understandable to anyone who might be affected by it. Then the proposal we are discussing today, the introduction law. It has also been established in this way, i.e. in close cooperation and in close consultation with other parties. The law provides for a number of additions and amendments to the Environment Act, to which I will come back in detail in my further reply. These include, for example, the damage and disadvantage compensation scheme, the rules on the organisation of implementation, monitoring and enforcement in the legislation, the legal bases for the digital system and the division between spatial and technical building rules. That's the cut I want to talk about later. In addition, the legislative proposal contains a transitional right to ensure proper implementation, so that people also know where they stand. Mr President, this is a short step forward. After that I wanted to use my order of cubes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u111	Very well, thank you. There is a question from Mr Van Gerven. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u112	It is extremely important for society to be able to participate in the decision-making process. Well, it has been suggested to come up with some kind of manual or participation protocol, which actually describes the route that a local government should follow if there is a plan. Is there such a manual, such a protocol, or is there going to be?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u113	I'll get back to you on that. If Mr Van Gerven agrees, I will come back to his question in my answer when I talk about participation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u114	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u115	Mr. Chairman. First, the construction of the Environmental Law System. Several groups have drawn attention to this. At what level, for example, do we set standards? Should we do that at the law level or at AMvB level? That point of the standard was already an important point in the handling of the Environment Act. That was before our time, I say to Mr Smeulders, who asked for it, at least in this place. Following the opinion of the Council of State and the debate at the time in parliament, various safeguards have been incorporated into the law. For example, the delegation bases are limited in the law, for example by the implementation of European directives. There is also a pending procedure, so that Parliament is involved early in the creation of the AMvBs. As a result, the legislator's direction has been increased. Parliament then agreed to the Environment Act. Subsequently, the draft AMvBs and the bill of the introduction law were submitted simultaneously to the Council of State. The Council of State has assessed them in conjunction with a favourable opinion. In doing so, the Council of State has taken explicit account of the distribution between the law and the AMvBs chosen by the legislator. Having said that, I do not think there is any reason to change that now. I am therefore assuming that this is the case in the case of the Environment Act. The opinion of the Council of State was taken into account at that time. After that, the Council of State, judging everything in conjunction, said that they could give a positive opinion on this. Mr Kops also had a question on this point, namely whether the AMVBs lead to a shift of powers to the executive. In other words, is the democratic legitimacy still sufficient? He mentioned, I thought, the Environmental Management Act, where that is different. I would like to tell him that, first of all, Parliament is involved early in the run-up to the draft decision, as I have just said. I think we know that Parliament has enough opportunities and also used them to influence the content of the AMvBs, for example by means of motions. This has also led to adjustments in the AMvBs. I have also responded to the article from the NJB magazine, which also refers to Mr Kops, and I have also mentioned examples. The construction of the Environmental Management Act, which Mr Kops points out, is also included in the Environment Act, namely the environmental quality requirements. So the Chamber can demand that standards be incorporated into the law. Then it is about EU standards. Mr. Chairman. The assessment rules for licences were mentioned by Mr Smeulders as an example. The Environmental Act sets substantive standards for the physical environment at AMvB level. I mentioned the four AMvBs that matter. The aim is to put an end to fragmentation of the many laws, AMvBs and regulations that are now in place. Bringing together at the level of the general measure of governance will increase accessibility and reduce fragmentation. In addition, we are also promoting timely implementation of EU legislation. That AMvB level is consistent with the main line of current legislation. Some subjects are regulated at the level of the law, for example legal protection and the basis for permits are at the level of the law. Then you can regulate the substantive assessment rules at AMvB level for the reasons I have just mentioned. Again, the involvement of Tweede Kamer and Eerste Kamer is regulated by the pending procedure. Moreover, it is not the case that when something is regulated at AMvB level those standards are less harsh. They're just as hard as they are at the law level, and they're just as enforceable. Mr. Chairman. There were two more precise questions in this area, one by Mr Kops and one by Mr Bishop. Mr Kops wondered whether this amendment under the Environment Act would also change anything when it comes to the construction of wind farms, mosques and azc's. That's not true. These new or other laws and regulations do not matter. This kind of thing is mainly still a matter for municipalities and not something we determine here from The Hague. Nor does the division between law and AMvB make any difference to that kind of thing. In that sense, nothing changes. Mr Bishop asked whether it would be possible to continue to centrally organise the exemption for ringing church bells. I have also seen this question come across in the consultation. Then the Protestant Church of the Netherlands made comments about this. As a result of that question, I am still looking at it. I can imagine that we could discuss this in the run-up to the adoption decision. So it has my attention. I refer Mr Bishop to the background to the adoption decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u116	The Minister indicates how the system has been built up and that standards are explicitly laid down in the AMvBs. I really do not want to interfere with that principle, although that impression could have been given in the first period. That is not the intention. In my view, the Minister explains that the law itself lays down principles and principles. That's the point. At the moment you are missing one more element there, I mentioned, for example, an element in water safety, you can consider sharpening or supplementing the starting points. Does the Minister agree with me? That doesn't mean you're gonna put standards in there, because you're gonna put them in the AMvBs. But could you complement those principles and principles?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u117	In my view, what Mr Ronnes is describing does indeed clarify the first-term discussion. He does not want to interfere with the principle of setting standards in an AMvB. What he sketches in all abstraction, I can confirm; yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u118	There is another question from Mr Kops.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u119	I hear the minister say that the Environment Act does not affect the realisation of wind farms, mosques and azc's. Can the Minister respond to Article 23.3? It's got the experimental space in it. That article thus says that AMvB can indeed regulate that derogation from the Environmental Law, the Electricity Act, the Heat Act and the Environmental Management Act may be granted. Isn't it true that an AMvB based on this article makes it easier to create wind farms, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u120	I had interpreted Mr Kops' question in this way: is this actually extending the possibilities of making a different assessment of the current situation? My answer is that the Environment Act is no different in this respect than the current system. In that sense, I can reassure him. He asked the question where one or the other came from. He asked for attention to a number of special situations, but of course it may as well apply to other things, such as sports accommodation and schools. That is a matter we like to leave to local considerations. For that, it does not matter that we are now dealing with another law and with another system. For example, we can issue instructions. Then it could be from the Empire or the county. That is actually the case in the current situation. As at present, such rules can be implemented at AMvB level. In the current and future regulations, therefore, there is scope to make a special contribution to this. Because Mr Kops' question was so specific whether the space will be larger or different, I say: there is now also legislation and regulation to be complied with. I can go into his supplementary question on Article 23.3. more specifically later. I'm gonna have to find out for him. Then there are a few points about the legal system as such. Mrs Laan asked me to explain how to arrange a "go/no go" moment for Parliament. That's actually a very special construction. This means that the entry into force-KB of the Environment Act is placed before both Chambers. Parliament can therefore take part in the decision on the date of entry into force of the whole law. This is a construction which is common in national legislation. I think it is justified in this case, given the extent of the change in the system and the great consequences it has of course had in implementing practice. With this construction, we are actually highlighting the extent of this system review and the importance of the role of Parliament in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u121	Exactly, the Minister says it very well: the depth and the extent. But what does that mean? Suppose, when the dramatic proposal is discussed, it is said: no go. Don't you think all these dozens of laws are gonna change? Will everything we decide today, all the amendments tabled by my fellow Members, be reversed?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u122	I think we should do everything in our power to focus on the fact that, when the time comes, everyone can say with confidence: yes, this is what we are going to do. So basically everything we do now, building the system, shaping the law, determines what can happen if we finally present it all. What Mrs Laan is describing is, as far as I am concerned, a theoretical option, but that is, of course, a situation in which we would never want to end up together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u123	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u124	This could be final, Mr. Chairman. But I think this is exactly why people are losing faith in government. We are now creating a moment that we really wouldn't want to end up like you just suggested, which is that we're going to say no. But with this "go/no go," with this royal decision, we do add that choice. And I find that typical. I therefore ask the Minister: why this way? Why are we creating something that we might not want to stick to after all? That's never supposed to happen, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u125	No, but those who are very keen on having such a "go/no go" moment will totally agree with Mrs Laan, namely that this should not lead to the complete absence of the law. Those who want to do so, and I would like to accommodate in it and as I have outlined, I also see opportunities to do so, actually, while we are working towards it, that somewhere at the end of the journey they can also make an overall assessment, namely whether what we have all agreed with each other in the meantime, and that is technical, that is complex and has many facets of it all in a good way. Maybe I can add one more thing. I told you, of course, no one wants that worst case scenario. And if sausage comes to sausage, of course there is also the option that you say: not now. Then we take a little extra time to work out some points, then put them again for such a moment and get the green light for it. But again, I don't expect that either, because I really trust that, in the way we're working right now, we're just gonna get through this moment in a good way. Anyway, that's the space there is. In the worst case, you will then create some more time together, so that you could submit it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u126	Mrs. Laan?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u127	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I apologize for asking, but I have something about that last one. We've already postponed it a number of times. No one was waiting for that. I've been reading the files from the First Chamber, as far as I could still find them. There is no one there asking for extra time with the proposal. They want to see why the quality of legislation in the Netherlands meets their criteria and standards, in my opinion exactly what the Upper House is for. Again, my question to the Minister. I hear you saying out loud that it might be later, and then I get pain right in my belly. But I do not think that the VVD will be very happy if we turn everything back through the pile of Mr. Van Gerven, who is behind him, so everything that has to do with the Environment Act, through a possible "no go" decision by this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u128	I'm glad, because I don't think that's gonna make anyone very happy. But I actually wanted to reassure Mrs Laan by saying that in such a scenario you are going to do everything we can to avoid getting into it, and also have the option, by taking some extra time, of repairing what is not good enough. But again, of course that is not the goal at all. By promising at the front that through this construction you actually have a "go/no go" moment, I think you will give the First Chamber the comfort that it can perform that quality of legislation test sufficiently. And if it didn't lead to a go, it would still not mean that the legislation is off the table, but that it would add extra time to the process. And I repeat what I actually started with: of course, everything is aimed at not having to do so at all, but at going through every step of the process carefully, and at building something that simply creates a good workable system in terms of legislation, i.e. on the legal side, as well as in implementation practice. Mr. Chairman. I shall now turn to the second issue, the administrative division of tasks. Mr Ronnes asked if I think that the Environment Act provides sufficient guarantees for the roles as there are. He spoke in particular of a reluctant role for the provinces. The starting point is indeed: decentralised, unless. That is an important starting point. The Environmental Act also lays down the principle of subsidiarity, which is set out in Article 2.3. The wording is sharper than in the current Regional Planning Act. I also think it would be more in line with the Municipal Law and the Province Law. When assessing whether something is a national interest or a provincial interest, there is always what is politically determined, political choices and possible time-boundness. The law requires that the province or the Empire motivate why an interest is taken into account and why municipalities cannot defend that interest on their own. In the end, that consideration must be made by the province or the Empire. We can write it down in all kinds of ways, but that is, of course, the reality. At the same time, the legislation relies on confidence in what can be done on a decentralised basis, so trust in the decentralised administration. I also think that is what the legislation sees as such. In the end, the judge could test it, but it will check whether the statement of reasons is sufficient. I have agreed with the provinces and municipalities, represented by IPO and VNG, that the provinces will be reluctant to deal with their competence. This is also the case in the Administrative Agreement Implementation Environment Act. Mrs Van Eijs asked whether the province could intervene if municipalities themselves, for example, did not see the cross-border importance. Very often, several municipalities are involved in something. I believe that the system we are building encourages us to work proactively, with each other and with tasks that play locally or regionally, and that we must then consider which layer of governance is at the forefront. Cooperation between levels of government is paramount, so not that administrations wait for each other or do nothing, but that they seek each other out, that they consult and that they promote that cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u129	A question from Mr Ronnes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u130	I have a supplementary question, in line with what I said in the first term. The significant importance we are proposing is actually a political signal of how we see the division of labour. Do you see any objection if, politically speaking, we put an emphasis on the legal definition in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u131	Yeah, I see a problem with that. I have a legal effect for that too. I'll get back to you on that. I understand that Mr Ronnes is now asking that question, as he did in his first term, but then I have to browse my pieces tremendously, so I hope he will be okay with me doing it later. Yeah? Good! On this point, Mr Nijboer asked whether it is certain that all government battles will know what they are about. That is an important point. I think those responsibilities are sufficiently clear. Where it is possible, the law explicitly specifies where the tasks lie. During the reform of the system, it was decided not to revise the tasks and powers in principle. There is therefore no major shift in powers in this reform of the system. Some policy objectives can only be shared responsibility. It may also be that you cannot determine in advance that the interests are best taken care of by one or the other. As I said earlier, the principle of subsidiarity is the law's guiding principle in the exercise of tasks and powers. The criteria for this have been further strengthened following an opinion of the Council of State. As a result, responsibility for the physical environment lies at the heart of the municipality. The scale or importance requires that some issues be more centralized. Well, in the waterboards, that's often pretty obvious. Provinces have that when it comes to nature. The Empire has that when it comes to the main infrastructure. The Environment Act then requires in Article 2.2 that there should be coordination on the exercise of jurisdiction. I believe that the distribution of responsibility is indeed sufficiently clear to everyone involved. Mr. Chairman. Then the balance between protecting and exploiting. That is, of course, a core of what the Environment Act is about. It is about a balance of interests at all levels of government, and a number of spokesmen have just mentioned the European level a few times. We are actually looking together for more room for consideration for the different governments. This Chamber has also debated this on many occasions. But we do want a basic level of protection. We think that's very important. Health has been mentioned. Safety is also such a basic condition that should be good. We need to implement European rules. We also sometimes have to safeguard certain national interests. I mention an interest that has not yet been mentioned here today, but which, of course, plays a lot: Defence. That can also be an interest that you have to consider. That may not happen automatically, but we need to bring that to the attention of the public. If giving more consideration is possible, I just took an example where it is actually not possible to do so, then it is about a number of local matters. We have seen it, for example, in the case of nuisances at local level: smell, noise and vibrations. These are matters that we no longer centrally regulate, but allow a local balance. This also creates more room for customisation locally. And if a municipality has room for its own standards and chooses a higher or lower level within them, then that municipality must of course back that up. So you can't do that haphazardly, but there's got to be a backup. Then, of course, local democracy must also prove itself. I am confident that this local democracy will come to some good consideration. In the end, of course, there is always access to justice, but that is only for cases where it would not go well. So hopefully that local democracy can come to a good balance and come to a good foundation. Then that doesn't have to lead to a courtroom. Rules may differ more often than they are now. I think this is appropriate for the time in which we live, and also for the decentralised unitary state that we are. We're gonna take a look at this later, of course. When the law comes into force, we'll conduct evaluations. Then we'll weigh this up and look at it. Mr Ronnes said: such an evaluation is beautiful, but how can we prevent the first evaluation, after five years, from finding that things have gone wrong anyway? Well, my answer to that is actually the same: by relying on the local balance and on the local authorities. In my opinion, they will not go a long way in either protecting or exploiting them, but they will simply make a good balance that fits the regional conditions. Moreover, of course, we do not have to wait for that snapshot, that evaluation after five years. If there are any developments that we would also note here that this was not exactly what it was about, then we can, of course, intervene at the same time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u132	I have a question about local democracy. The VNG has raised air quality as a problem. It is not a purely municipal responsibility but a joint responsibility, because air quality does not end at the border of a municipality. How does the Minister view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u133	Yeah, I think that's true for a lot of subjects. Mrs Van Eijs drew attention to cross-border issues. That could be about air. It could be about sound. It could be about water. This is true between the Netherlands and neighbouring countries and, of course, this also applies at the level of municipalities. I told you I was in Nijmegen yesterday. Some things they do in Nijmegen have more effect on Beuningen than on Nijmegen. Nijmegen is very aware of that. That is why they are always in consultation with Beuningen before taking such measures. It is therefore a justified remark. We must take account of this locally from the outset, and we must therefore seek this cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u134	Finalizing, Mr. Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u135	But that's not an answer to my question. There is a problem if there are no clear community-wide standards for air quality. The Air Quality National Cooperation Programme ends. What's gonna replace that? Then you must have a super-municipal standard which regulates this well and which is in line with the national emission ceilings agreed in Europe. How's that gonna be arranged? Because I think that's a level higher than just a congregation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u136	I just told you. I made a distinction between where you can't, where you have a basic level of protection, and where you can. Then I said, "I'm talking about local nuisances, local issues." There are. There are certain roads in inner cities where local is a problem or bottleneck, where you like to offer space to solve that locally. At a time when it is not local, but also affects, for example, the neighbouring municipalities, it is most obvious that these two municipalities make an agreement together. If it is even more transcendent, there are starting points for that and we can interfere from within the Empire. This is exactly what I think the power of the new law is: you do not say that it is always the same everywhere, but acknowledge that there are degrees in it. You leave room for local considerations where that is possible, and for where that is not possible, it is centrally established that there is an transcendental importance for the handling of a certain level of protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u137	Mr. Van Gerven, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u138	I have another clarifying question. Does that mean that there will be a national standard for air quality to be tested? That is actually my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u139	I think so, but let me come back to that in the second term; then I'm going to look at it for a moment, specifically for air transport, which also applies to the fact that bandwidths are laid down in the standard, but that you leave room for local space on a number of sub-parts, which I was just talking about. I'll get back to you in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u140	I want to respond to something the minister said. She said: if we see something going wrong, we do not have to wait for the official evaluation five years after the entry into force. That is good to hear, because if we see, for example, that the balance between protecting and exploiting is going to go crazy, it is of course nice not to have to wait five years for us to do something. My question is how we are going to see whether the balance is going to go to one side or the other, whether it is going to go to the wrong side. How do we keep the finger on the wrist?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u141	Keeping the finger on the pulse will require some local authorities and provinces to do themselves. From The Hague, we will also monitor in broad terms how things are going, also simply by consulting each other. Of course, we also have regular consultations with umbrella organisations, with which we cooperate intensively in the implementation of legislation. So there are plenty of ways to see if things run the way you want them to. Eventually, people can bring it up themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u142	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u143	I think there is a need in the Chamber to see if this system is going in the right direction. That is what the evaluation is for after five years, but we are concerned about whether it will all be comparable in the future. Each municipality has its own policies and concepts, so I would like the Minister, perhaps in the future, to look a little more closely at how we are all going to monitor, on the basis of the same concepts, whether we are going in the right direction and whether that system will ultimately work as we hope it will work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u144	I fully agree with Mrs Van Eijs. She herself said in her first term that we have to make sure that we can compare apples to apples. This requires a certain degree of uniformity if you want to keep an eye on things and be able to compare or measure them. On the other hand, this reform of the system is designed to create some room. We should let that happen, I'd say. The fact that there will be some unforeseen things is perhaps also almost part of the change in the system. Mrs Van Eijs' question was how we are going to prevent us from starting, then having five years of wind silence and having a major evaluation after five years. Nor do I consider that appropriate to the new system. So we must keep our finger on the pulse during the period of time, on the way to the evaluation which might also lead to adjustments. Mr Smeulders asked if I would be prepared to draw up a method to help municipalities weigh soft interests. Well, the Environment Act doesn't distinguish between soft and hard interests, which is not part of the law, but I know what he means. Some aspects have quantitative standards and others do not. Both he and I have already mentioned the example of health, the accessibility of public outdoor space and that kind of thing. All kinds of tools have been created to take this type of interest into account in decision-making in the municipalities. So I would not like to add any more to that, but I can imagine that we are better able to unlock the tools available to help the municipalities and make them easy to access. We have an implementation program and a website called Getting started with the Environment Act. There is also a Guide Healthy Environment. We'll make sure that all these things are central and easy to find. Mr Smeulders also asked about the National Environment Vision. Does it also offer space to do these kinds of experiments and to draw attention to what he calls the soft values? My intention is to come to the Chamber with a draft National Environment Vision before the summer. That seems to me to be the time when Mr Smeulders can assess whether he can do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u145	There is a question from Mr Smeulders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u146	On that first point: we have heard from the green organisations with which we have spoken that there is a need for such a hand-out. The Minister now again mentions a number of documents that are already there. I would very much like to receive these documents as soon as possible, so that we can assess whether they comply with what we expect from a hand-out or, for example, that we should table a motion on them in the second term. I would therefore like to hear from the Minister whether we can receive these documents quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u147	These are documents available to the municipalities, so of course the Chamber can have them. Shall I then give some sort of overview? Maybe that's the easiest thing to do. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u148	Any luck with that... 'Cause we're going over Tuesday... No, we're gonna vote on it after recess, so you have a week more. My question and Mr Smeulders' request was actually to do so before the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u149	I agree to do so before the votes. Maybe a few more questions after all. Mr Nijboer and Mr Van Gerven had some more specific questions about health. Here too, one of the aims of the Environment Act is to maintain and create a safe and healthy physical environment. Health is therefore an explicit interest, which must be taken into account and taken into account when making plans. For all of us in the Netherlands, all of us in this small country, having a healthy living and working environment is of course crucial. The amendment adds to the law that in special cases a permit may be refused because of health. General rules and rules of instruction set limits on activities that can have a clear health impact. So in other words, health is a very important core of the system change. Mr Van Gerven asks which standards can and cannot be set nationally and whether health values are a basis for this. One of the decisions I mentioned is the Quality of Living Environment Decision. It contains national standards for noise, vibration, smell of livestock farms and water treatment plants and water and air quality. There he is, Mr. Van Gerven. The municipalities sometimes have room for consideration when applying these standards, for example the types of smell and the types of light nuisance are not regulated. Well, there's that consideration room. So, as was discussed in the Chamber at the decision quality living environment, standard values and limit values. I would not add an additional value of advice to that. I believe that Mr Van Gerven suggested this when he said that health values should also be added. I think the health is well protected as I just outlined it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u150	What does the Minister think of the opinion of the Health Council of 2016?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u151	The opinion of the 2016 Health Council, what does that look like?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u152	That is what you were talking about, namely taking health values as a starting point for standards. That's a little bit more than standard standards. That was the Health Council's advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u153	Then I understand that Mr Van Gerven derived his suggestion from the opinion of the Health Council. I just said that I don't think it has any added value to add to the standards we already have in it. I can imagine something else. I would also like to say this to Mrs Van Eijs, who actually asked for an extra handout for the municipalities. There is the Guide Healthy Environment. That is perhaps at some point what you both mean, because it describes the methods that municipalities can use to make their decisions. Again, I do not see any added value in an additional independent hand-out on this point. It is, by the way, in the domain of my colleague, the Secretary of State IenW, so you could go a little further with her. I think that we are already doing the maximum for the system and that an additional hand-out does not add anything to that. When the Health Council says that this hand-out should be there, I'm referring to the hand-out we already have.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u154	In conclusion, Mr Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u155	Two more questions on this point. First of all, is the Minister still prepared to identify the differences between these two values? The Health Council says: we now have a certain level of air quality and if it were optimal, you could still make a large number of percentage profits in the field of health. In particular, a city like Amsterdam was mentioned, where air quality is, of course, a major problem. The second question I have is whether local authorities can put their heads on it. Can they say: the Minister is not doing it, but we do want to take these health-related baselines into account?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u156	Mr Van Gerven is asking me very much. That's true. If I were to answer all these questions, you may, of course, ask me these questions, and I shall also sit very much in the chair of my colleagues. This is a subject which Mrs Van Veldhoven regularly discusses with the Chamber, and I even think with great regularity. I would like to talk about the system and then it is also about standardisation and that sort of thing, but these questions from Mr Van Gerven are really very detailed and concern the portfolio of the Secretary of State for IenW. So it's tricky. If he insists, I'd like to come back to it in the second term. But once again, I'm going to sit very much on the chair of a fellow executive.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u157	In conclusion, Mr Van Gerven. Perhaps the question is whether municipalities are able to impose high standards, because I think that is a technical question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u158	That is, of course, a system question. I'd like to see that answered. The Minister says that it is not about it and that I should actually be with a colleague for that, but she assumes the standard values. So she's taking a stand. I don't see the Secretary of State every day, so is the Minister still willing to pass these questions on to her colleague?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u159	I can pass the question on anyway. By the way, as Mr Van Gerven says, municipalities can put their own heads on it. What I said from the system is that the system is based on standard values, which in principle are well-established and limit values, which should not be exceeded. That is a general principle. From there I have argued that a third, new health advice, as Mr Van Gerven calls it, is not necessary from the system. In any case, I will pass on the specific substantive questions to the Secretary of State of IenW. I had already answered Mrs Van Eijs' question about the hand-out. She also asked how it was ensured that the extensive procedure would be followed in the event of authorisation which could cause damage to the environment and health. The Environment Act also provides for an extensive preparation procedure for the authorisation of the most risky activities. This is also in line with European law. If the obligation to draw up an environmental impact report applies, the extended procedure always applies. This is in line with the Aarhus Convention. So that's also well secured.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u160	Before you continue, there is a question from Mrs Van Eijs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u161	My question was generally asked, but inspired by what I read about the criterion that came from the Wabo. In the contribution of the Council of State it was mentioned that this was not included in the Environment Act and that by the way it is now in the law, there would be fewer guarantees as to how it was in the Wabo. My question was therefore: is there sufficient safeguards to ensure that the normal procedure is extended if there is indeed a risk of damage to nature, the environment or health?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u162	What I have just outlined does not seem to Mrs Van Eijs to be fully satisfied with her question, so let me come back to that in the second term. Mr. Chairman. The role of the city council and number of related cases. Mrs. Laan said there are municipalities that don't have an environmental plan yet. What has an effect, for example, on the construction plan, I thought was the context she gave. The construction plan is not affected by the Environmental Act, which is not yet in place. For example, we realize a lot of new construction with a so-called deviation permit. The same can be done with a permit for an outdoor environment plan activity. Each municipality also has an environmental plan when the Environment Act enters into force. That plan consists of the existing municipal rules, including the applicable zoning plans. If there are now construction plans that are made possible under zoning plans, then they can be implemented under the new situation. If a municipality wants to create more housing opportunities, it will soon be able to change the environmental plan or grant an outdoor permit. So I think I can reassure Mrs Laan on that point. She also asked why municipalities have ten years to work on converting land use plans to environmental plans. Can't we go any faster? Of course, it's an extensive operation. I've been consulting with the VNG on this. We find it rather difficult to estimate how much time it takes. In consultation with the UNG, it came to 2029. That seems a long way away now, but it is of course a little shorter from the moment it is introduced. Then we're talking about a period of eight years. The best thing is, of course, when not only the old things are transferred into the new ones, but that there is also thought about the use of new possibilities: so working with those open standards, offering some more space. Again, in consultation with the UNG, we have reached this deadline. But if we can do it faster, we can do it faster. Of course, we just don't know exactly. Mr Bisschop and others, I believe that Mr Nijboer also mentioned why we chose to give the city council an advisory role in the environmental permit to deviate from an environmental plan. Within the dual relationships there are, the city council has sufficient instruments to influence the policy of the college. Because that college is, of course, under the political control of the council. The College may be held accountable at any time. The city council directs on main lines and establishes frameworks in the environmental vision on the physical environment. So all in all, I don't see this as a hollowing out of the city council, even with that environmental permit. So the advisory right that the city council gets from the environmental permit gives the board the opportunity to express wishes and reservations on a proposed decision. In doing so, all the political instruments available can be put in place. In doing so, the city council can always prevent the college from granting a permit that the city council cannot agree to. You almost wonder why we're doing this. We do that because, if the city council can agree with a planned decision, it does not have to take action. Of course, it saves time. This is expected to apply to a multitude of proposals, but if the city council wants it, it can always stand up and take action.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u163	I'm gonna keep thinking this is a crazy business. You have the environmental plan that's incredibly important. That is decided once by the council and then the college can change it as it were endlessly, and the council can say afterwards: oh, we did not actually agree with that. That's really weird, isn't it? Surely that undermines the position of the city council? I really don't understand why we're doing this. We have now arranged it this way: from zoning plans all changes go to the city council. Very often that is indeed a hammer piece, because then it is not very exciting. But it's up to the board to decide. I really do not see the need to change that. I would therefore like a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u164	I understand Mr Smeulders' question. He knows how things are in local practice, so I stick to it: if the council doesn't want something, then he simply has the opportunity to give a negative opinion and, if necessary, to dedicate a motion to the college in order to refuse or not grant a particular permit. The opposite is: if there is no problem, the board does not have to take action and a permit can be granted. This is how the system should work. I do not see that at all as a hollowing out of the role of the city council, as Mr Smeulders fears, because the city council can act, can intervene. It is also in line with the Municipal Law. So I don't see that problem. I think, on the contrary, that it could be a very good way of working in practice, just at that local level.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u165	Finalizing, Mr. Smeulders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u166	The Minister can't convince me yet. We just have a system in which the board finally makes the decision. I think everyone's happy about that. An amendment is now being proposed, and the College decides, and the Council may subsequently say that it does not agree with it, for which I do not see the added value at all. I really do not see why we are going to undermine the authority of the Council and I do not understand why the Minister is defending it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u167	I am defending it because there is no erosion of the position of the city council, because the college gives the council the opportunity to express wishes and reservations by means of a proposed decision. I think that in the new way of working we will benefit from the fact that municipal councils are basically steering and setting frameworks for the environmental vision, including local ones, for their living environment. In there, the college has to do its job. In doing so, we are accelerating those cases where it is done neatly within these frameworks, and at the same time there is the possibility of saying, where the Council has reservations about this, that you have not understood this correctly, best of all; this is not within the framework we have agreed on. If there are such wishes and reservations, the licence cannot be granted.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u168	I think that's where the problem lies. A lot of guesses are from small towns. Local council members aren't fulltimers. At the moment when you do not allow them to participate in a full-fledged way in matters that the council believes should be discussed, you undermine that role of the council. I can go a long way with you. In practice, there are just real examples where the ongoing business is and where you could best give the college that independent role. But do so in such a way that you put the council in a position to decide what to do with the college and what not, and that the board itself is at the wheel in that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u169	It is almost a debate on how in all municipalities, small and large, college and council relate to each other. Actually, it's very simple, because it's just like here: the city council is ultimately just the boss. The Board has to decide and has many instruments to do so. The Council has the budget right, political means, such as expressing confidence in college and aldermen, the means of the motion to enforce certain things. In short, the city council is always in charge. The debate is about whether you think the Council should try to steer the main lines and frameworks. In any case, I do think so, and I think many others, too, with me. Then it is a matter for some Members of this House to differ on whether the city council is still able to intervene in this way of operating at the level of a permit in good time when that permit would not be in line with the agreed frameworks. I think that for the most part the Council will simply say: it is fine, we have no wishes and reservations at all, we do not need to see it anymore and we do not want to discuss it. You realize that because of this method. Instead of by default discussing everything and departing from it by saying "you don't have to this time," you turn that around. But the city council, that's what I really agree with everyone, should always be able to say, if he doesn't want to, that something doesn't happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u170	Finalizing, Mr. Ronnes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u171	We're not getting very close. We agree on the principle. Only, it's about who decides when the council is on or off. I believe that this primacy should lie with the city council as the highest body in the municipality.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u172	The primacy of the city council is not under discussion. It's actually about the M.O. I would like to say the following to Mr Ronnes. Just when you think that the city council is always the boss and always has the political control in the relations we have, you do with this establishment, so you do steer on the main lines and the frameworks and, in principle, not on each individual permit, in my opinion sufficiently right to those dual relationships.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u173	In my view, the Minister is now talking about granting a permit, but it was a derogation from an existing environmental plan. In my view, that is something other than the issue of the licence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u174	The Minister, and then I'll go to the colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u175	It's really about assigning another destination.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u176	There were several questions about that. It's true that they're a little tied up now. Mr Ronnes' question was concerned with the deviation from the environmental plan, but this also applies: the city council has all kinds of instruments, and the college gives the board the opportunity to express wishes and reservations about a proposed decision. That is my principle, regardless of whether it is a derogation or a permit. This can sometimes turn out to be exactly the same. Once again, the proposal assumes that if the board does not take action, the permit can be granted or the derogation from the environmental plan can continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u177	Indeed, the doubt remains whether on the one hand you are placing the organ of the college and on the other hand the organ of the council in the correct position. Is the city council's right of opinion actually the right to consent? Can the council actually block it? Because I hear the Minister say that, but I get the impression from the documents that it is really a matter of the Council being able to say its piece, pee over it, and that the College then decides how it goes. How far does this right of advice extend?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u178	The advisory right is in line with Article 169 of the Municipal Law. The College gives the Board the opportunity to express wishes and reservations in the preliminary decision. This does not mean that the council says anything, and the college then gives and disposes of and decides, as Mr Bishop describes. No, if the board wishes and has reservations, then the college must of course follow up. But it is precisely because we think that in most cases the Council will not take action and that the permit can simply be granted without further delay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u179	Finalizing, Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u180	But that could be achieved by means of a mandating scheme or a dealloying of the board to the college? Then you achieve the same thing, and then you in particular mark the character of the city council as head of the municipality, so as the final manager, yet more carefully compared to what is now ahead?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u181	The head of the council is not at all in question. I think we all agree on that. As far as I am concerned, neither is the active involvement of the Council under discussion. But what is in store is the use of the advisory right and not the right of consent. I do hear the need to look for a more active way of involving the Council in this. So we need to think about how that can be done. But that is mainly to do justice to the role that the Council, in my opinion, has in all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u182	The minister rightly says: the city council is the boss and the city council must steer the main lines. He does so, of course, by establishing the environmental plan together with the municipality and all the participation involved. The environmental plan is the framework and the main lines within which it is to be implemented. But an out-of-the-plan permit application goes against that of course, because otherwise the licence application was not called out-of-plans. That means that the city council didn't turn off the main line at the time. How can the Minister say: the city council must steer the main lines and leave it to the college?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u183	Mrs. Van Eijs sketches it well. I said that the city council is steering the main lines and setting the frameworks for the environmental vision. He always has the opportunity to express reservations, even on regular licensing issues. I have to take a closer look at it, but I can imagine that, in the situation Mrs Van Eijs has outlined, you should always submit it to the city council, because the city council should then be able to decide on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u184	Finalizing, Mrs. Van Eijs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u185	I welcome those words, because that is what I believe my amendment is about. So that would be good. I think it is also important to pay attention to the fact that the Council of Ministers, as Mr Ronnes has just reminded us, is in fact always lagging behind in terms of information from the College. That's what the system is all about. As a result, the idea that the city council will always be able to say something about it and that politics and therefore the college should be aware of it will in practice be a very limited means. I therefore hope that the Minister will really take into account the amendments that have been tabled that the city council should really be placed in a position so that he can assume that framework and occasionally corrective role.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u186	I still have to look very closely at all the amendments, including this amendment. I shall therefore come back to it in any case when I consider the amendments in the second term. On the basis, that the city council should be in position, we agree. But to those who have drawn attention to this, I also say that I hope that this can be done in a way that does justice to the new way of working that we want to have with each other. That is also a collaboration between the college and the city council. It is precisely by establishing these frameworks and making agreements on a broad basis that the city council can also give some confidence to the college; again, if the city council is allowed to judge whether the college is doing well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u187	That raises another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u188	A question in the sense that I hear the comments of my fellow Members, but I would also like to tell the Minister that a lot of municipal councils are simply perfectly capable of serving democracy at local level in this way. I think she's quite aware of that. At least our party does not underestimate the colleagues in the country. In the words of the Minister, I hear a little bit that such a wish and reservations method, which we often used in Rotterdam when I was a councilman, works well if you give it publicity and publicity at the beginning of a new period. A suggestion to the Minister is that, at a new period of the city council, it should be explicitly stated in the packages of knowledge that a wish and reservations method is a good way to get to work on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u189	Yes, Mrs. Laan's last suggestion seems to me to be a very good one. I'd love to take it with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u190	Another question from Mr Smeulders, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u191	Yes, also in relation to Mrs Laan's comment. What I think we are talking about here is that the city council now has a legal competence in terms of zoning, later on the environmental plan. Any amendments thereto shall be decided by the City Council. In the proposal now before us, that is no longer the case. Then they can say yes to that once, at first. Then it is up to the college to adapt what it wants. Then the council can say whether or not he agrees. Then the council has to try things by way of detour and motion. That's just a hollowing out of the city council's position, isn't it? The city council now has a formal, legal basis and can simply table amendments to make adjustments of its own. That's the option the minister wants to take away from the city council. I very much welcome the Minister's comment that she wants to look at this. I am also curious to hear the reaction in the second term to the motions that have been tabled; sorry, the amendments. However, as regards Mrs Laan's remark and the idea that we would not have confidence in the city council, I would also like to say that we have a great deal of confidence in the city council, which is entitled to legal power.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u192	Mr. Smeulders, we're going to leave it at that, because if we debate each other, we'll do it in the second term. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u193	Then let me resist the temptation to go into that further, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u194	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u195	Finally to this section: I have of course looked with admiration at Mr Van Gerven, who indeed came forward with a very large box of paper to illustrate that there is still a lot of paper coming into the realization of an environmental plan, in this case of the Binckhorst. He also finds the lead time extensive. I am actually only pleased that they have done this very carefully in the city of The Hague. We are practicing together; the municipality of The Hague is also practicing. Actually, we're a little pioneering. They have chosen to speak very extensively with the inhabitants. They also had extensive consultations with the city council. They even submitted a preliminary draft of the environmental plan for inspection and held several sessions with council members. But I only welcome that. If that also leads to more paper at this stage, then so be it. I wouldn't say that we can do it all without paper, that we can do it all at once on the back of a beer skin. Of course it's not like that. Again, it's still in the phase of pioneering and practicing. That takes time, and apparently that also yields paper. Mr President, then the cut. A number of questions have been asked, among others, by Mr Smeulders, Mrs Laan and Mr Van Gerven. I understand that there are some differences of opinion. Let me explain why I think it's okay that we make this cut. An applicant who knows that multiple permits are required can simply decide to apply for them at once. However, in many cases, I think that it is in the interests of an applicant to clarify first whether a particular building is actually allowed at a particular location and whether certain requirements are imposed on it. Maybe he'll waive the application and maybe he won't, but he'll get that clarity on the first application. Then he can proceed to a permit for the engineering side of the construction plan. That is the stage in which detailed drawings will also have to be discussed. It therefore has an advantage for the applicant. Again, the well-informed applicant can do it at once. Others can be saved from the second phase, including the submission of the drawings, if in phase one it turns out that what the proposer wants is not possible at all. It therefore provides room for the applicant. It can simply determine, in consultation with the competent authority, whether it wants to do it simultaneously or in a particular order. So I do not want to make a simultaneous application mandatory. I just want to leave this space, so that initiators can simply choose the most appropriate route.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u196	For the sake of clarity, it is therefore only possible to build if both licences are available.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u197	Yeah, I'm assuming that's always the case. However, if a licence asker knows that he must have a permit for both the location and the construction side, he can apply for it at the same time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u198	Mr Smeulders, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u199	Yeah, a follow-up question. Isn't it convenient for the government, for the evaluator, when it happens simultaneously? Then they can consider each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u200	For the evaluator this may have a certain advantage, but I can also imagine a situation in which it is not attractive for the initiator to have to do everything at once if he can find out at licence number one that certain requirements are being imposed on appearance, construction height and that kind of thing, so that he does not even end up in phase two. Again, if a petitioner knows they both have to, then there is that possibility. Then he doesn't waste any time. I don't think one of them limits the other. The fact that there are two assessment frameworks does not limit the possibility for the assessor to test for spatial quality. But it is in the direction of the applicant, I think, a new possibility. It makes it a little more straightforward and simpler. So I think that cut will help, especially for the author.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u201	It is, of course, a question of integrity. Is everything well-balanced? But it's also about the order of things. Shouldn't you have a spatial environment test before you continue with the engineering test or the engineering permit?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u202	I thought Mr Van Gerven just now said in his first term that he didn't really want that cut, that he wanted to keep everything as it was. Now I hear him saying that there has to be a spatial test first. Yes, you can, but if a petitioner is confident that the spatial test will work because his plan fits within the frameworks, and he wants to do the engineering test at the same time, then so can he. This cut is therefore mainly intended to avoid unnecessary checks and unnecessary burdens on applicants. So I expect there to be fewer licensing obligations with the cut. In short, this will, of course, also lead to administrative burdens for citizens and businesses. That's the motive to do this. In cases where applicants both do so at the same time in the confidence that one can and the other is also at issue, it is up to the assessor how he organises it further at the back of the window.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u203	In conclusion, Mr Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u204	I've been trying to think along with the Minister, but I'm not from her speech. If you want it fast, I'd say do it integrally and at the same time instead of in a row. You have the chance that you will then have a construction permit, but that it turns out to be wrong with the spatial environment. Why don't we just do it at the same time? That seems to me to be the most convenient, most practical and fastest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u205	But I think we are actually doing much more for the citizens and businesses involved in this by offering room for consideration, including to the petitioner himself. Once again, Mr Van Gerven is quite sure that every applicant is already aware that he is getting the licence, but that is not the case. If you do know and have every confidence that you are on the spatial side within the frameworks, then you can also make the technical application at the same time. I do not dare to speak for every municipality in the Netherlands, but then you are expected to get a more or less simultaneous answer. But that doesn't apply to a lot of applications. Then you can already hear with the first application that it does not fit or that you have to do it differently and that you have to do it again. If you have done well, you can continue the technical assessment in the next phase, asking for detailed drawings as well. Once again, it is a major improvement on the current situation, especially in the direction of the proposers. And it does not interfere with what Mr Van Gerven says about the applicants who know for sure that they will be able to obtain both licences. They may submit it simultaneously. Mr. Chairman. I'm in the participation section. Some of the spokesmen have paid a great deal of attention to this. I am glad about that, because I think participation is an important part of the Environment Act, especially when it comes to work. All kinds of safeguards have been included in the various instruments to promote participation. For example, competent authorities must justify in their decisions what has been done about participation. Applicants for environmental permits are encouraged to organise participation properly. I think we should be reluctant to say exactly how this should be done, because participation is really custom-made. Each of us who have been active locally knows this, because the location, the nature and the size of the project are always different. I think it is appropriate that the competent authority and the initiator together choose the right form for this. Having said that, I would like to answer Mr Ronnes and Mr Smeulders' questions about participation, but I can already see some people on the interrupting microphone, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u206	Yeah, but we're at block six of the elf now. I would therefore like to propose that the interruptions be carried out at the end of each block. I don't want to cut them down, but this way things might get too out of hand. The Minister continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u207	Mr Ronnes asked how we think participation will be sufficiently guaranteed if there are deviations from the environmental plan. If there is a deviation on an environmental plan, then there will also be an application for an environmental permit. At the time of making the application, the applicant will also have to explain how he or she organised the participation. The competent authority will then have to assess in the application whether that has happened and whether there has been a balance of interests between all the interests involved. If an initiator has not done so and cannot prove that there has been participation, and therefore the competent authority does not really have sufficient information to make a balance of interests itself, then the competent authority can of course take action itself and for example hear interested parties or something like that. By way of derogation from the environmental plans, especially in case of major deviations, you should always consult the municipality. The municipality will systematically stress the importance and weight of participation. Mr Smeulders asked about the Environment Regulation. He asked how the participation in the consultation on the Environmental Regulation is regulated. The Environmental Regulations contain the submission requirements. I just said that at the environmental permit. By amendment, your Chamber has created a basis for stimulating initiators in the Environment Act. When applying for an environmental permit, you must show the participation. Let me give you an example. I could have said the same to Mr Ronnes. A farmer who wants to expand his stables should invite experts and local residents to see how his plan fits the wishes and interests of his neighbors. This can, of course, lead to an improvement in the plan and better support for it. Mr. Chairman. Those were the questions about participation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u208	Who's first? Mrs. Van Eijs? Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u209	The Minister states that the competent authority will check whether participation has been made at all with a licence applied for. Then the competent authority can still choose to inform all those people, for example. Is it not strange that the initiative for this civic participation should now be put back in the hands of the competent authority rather than the initiator? We had put it right with the initiator, because we felt it was his or her responsibility to ensure that there was agreement between the neighbours and the stakeholders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u210	That is, of course, not the most desirable situation. I merely explained that the competent authority may not have enough information if it considers that the initiator has not done so or has not done so. The competent authority could then take the step itself to take action to involve stakeholders in one way or another. Ideally, this is not the case and the initiator is right from the start engaged in organising that participation, encouraged by the municipality. So I'm going to outline the exception. The rule must be that this participation is organised and secured by the initiator himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u211	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u212	Of course, it would be very nice if the ideal case would be the rule and not the exception. But I really fear that it will be very attractive for an initiator to say: I don't have a lot of time, because I'm busy enough already, so let the municipality know if they all agree with my plan. I see no other way to guarantee this than that the city council can say in certain cases: if you as initiator did not take that glove seriously, you just don't get a permit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u213	You can turn this around. You stimulate it as much as you can. Actually, you're just saying that part of your plan must be that you're going to explain to all those involved exactly what you've done, so that you've organized the participation. One side would be that you just have to, but that's tricky. 'Cause then you're gonna sit down at the level of detail, when I said that that's actually not possible because it's customization. Every project, every issue, you have to organize it differently. So you can't quite prescribe from above how it's supposed to happen. You can say that it has to be done. And all the way to the back, that's Mrs Van Eijs' suggestion, you can say: if it didn't happen, I just don't grant that permit. That's quite rigid, but I do have sympathy for that, I have to say honestly. Because it is intended that there should be participation. If there is no participation and therefore there cannot be a proper balance of interests and even in the event that the municipality itself takes a look with the interested parties, the ultimate consequence may indeed be that the authorisation is not granted. However, Mrs Van Eijs is just a step further by imposing this as a demand in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u214	Very briefly, concluding, Mrs Van Eijs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u215	Then I ask the Minister: how can this be the ultimate consequence, according to the legislation in force as it stands today? Because I do not see that in the current regulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u216	Well, because of course the municipality can just decide for itself. I just said you're going a little further than what's in the proposal. But in the end, a decision must be made: yes or no.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u217	Mr. Chairman. Fortunately, many initiators are able to create support for their plans. But it is an illusion to think that this happens in all cases, so there will always be a competent authority that will have to balance interests. There is therefore no discussion about this; before that stand the College, the Council, or... GS or the States at the bar. What does stick: is this really a possible ground for refusal of the licence? In other words, if we mean or demand that there is a good process underneath it, and a college or GS decides to refuse a licence on the basis of insufficient participation or lack of acceptance, and the latter goes far, but in particular whether there has been a sufficient participation process, is that a ground for refusal? 'Cause if that doesn't stick with a judge, it's obviously a wash nose.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u218	That's true. But the most important thing, I think, is that Mrs Van Eijs and Mr Ronnes are now focusing entirely on the end of a path in which that participation did not take place. We really need to move towards a situation where participation has been taken into account since the beginning of the process. I think I called this about ourselves by saying that if this did not happen, then at the end of the journey the competent authority, which simply does not have enough information to make a proper assessment, can carry out a form of consultation or participation itself, or have a conversation with interested parties. And that, of course, can be taken into account by the competent authority. This is a different matter than if the participation as such has not taken place as we would like to see, and as part of the plans. However, I believe that the lack of support or the lack of proper representation of interests can be taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u219	I'd love to get on with this. Mr Ronnes asked a very clear question and I find the Minister's answer somewhat less clear. The question is simply: if it turns out that there has been no participation, can a municipality say "no, you don't get it" on that basis? That seems logical to me, but is that a ground for refusal, yes or no? That seems important to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u220	I shall come back to that in the second time in order to be sure. In my opinion, that alone is not a ground for refusal. At the time when the municipality finds that the initiator did not actually deliver on this point, so it did not provide for that participation as part of the proposal being made, the municipality itself can start to do so by ensuring that consultation with those stakeholders, and that can then be taken into account. In my opinion, it is not enough for refusal to participate alone. However, the municipality itself can ensure that this participation is still taking place, and perhaps even with the initiator to ensure that that participation is still taking place, before granting authorisation or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u221	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u222	Then I feel a little sympathy for Mrs Van Eijs, because that is a bit of the reverse world. We have said together that we find participation in the Environment Act incredibly important. We want someone who wants something to do with it in advance. Wouldn't it make sense if we just said to someone who deliberately doesn't do this: we reject it, start over?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u223	I hear you. The answer I just gave you is yes. But you start all the way on the other side of the route. Most municipalities, in fact all municipalities, which are going to work in this new way, will want to promote participation. I assume you'll be in a lot of places, too. It is also in the interests of the initiators to ensure and organise that participation. Again, I think that is far more important than assuming that at the end of the ride there will be parties who will ignore it completely, leave it on the left and do not do it. No, you just want to make sure in the process that this becomes a standard part of it. Only it is not a ground for refusal, but the municipality has several instruments to ensure that participation is still organised, if it is not properly regulated from the outset.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u224	I had another question about the participation protocol. If it's okay with this block, they'd be treated, if I remember correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u225	Mr Van Gerven put that question at the very beginning. Maybe he'd like to repeat it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u226	It concerns the proposal to create a kind of manual on the Environment Act for local democracy: what should be organised to speak of good participation? I called that the "participant protocol." Is the Minister willing to make that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u227	Excuse me, I forgot. We just had a little debate on the interrupting microphone. We exchanged views on this subject. It is also my intention that the system of participation should be as good as possible. There are also many examples of how this happens in municipalities. I therefore believe that Mr Van Gerven's suggestion is a good one and that we could do so, in consultation with municipalities, by collecting examples that have already been acquired by municipalities. So I would like to take that together with the municipalities and turn it into something like what Mr Van Gerven just outlined.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u228	Next block.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u229	Mr. Chairman. I'm at the disadvantage compensation. Mr Smeulders, Mr Ronnes and Mr Bishop have asked questions about this. The flat rate of 5% came back a few times. That forfait is in line with current practice. That's why it was chosen. Now the judge finally decides the altitude. It says Mr Ronnes rightly said 'at least 2%'. That is the starting point. It's up to the judge to decide. Mr Ronnes' suggestion was to accept it, also because it would be policy neutral. Let me explain why I don't think that's true. I think it would be useful to provide, in advance, security to citizens and municipalities on the level of what citizens themselves should bear. It's unclear now. It is said that it is at least 2%. But otherwise, it depends on all kinds of things. In practice, uncertainty about compensation results in municipalities making very detailed plans, thus avoiding damage. This runs counter to the idea of the Environment Act, namely to provide more space for new developments in environmental plans and also for citizens' initiatives. So if we want to achieve some broader, more global plans, it is important to provide that space and not force the municipalities into a situation of very detailed plans for fear of damage. This may occur in a variety of areas. Nor is it the case that we know this on the basis of the 2% that is now in it. No, they actually have uncertainty. I want to get rid of that "at least 2%" and a fixed 5% result. This is then decided in advance; there is no need for arbitration anymore. 2% is not the current practice, which is on average 5%. This would also cost municipalities a lot of money, because they would not be able to charge them. So we have chosen that 5% in line with case law. In fact, it is a kind of codification of case law. That is the basis of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u230	End of the block?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u231	Not that, but I saw Mr. Ronnes walking to the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u232	Yeah, but I suggest we just do the questions at the end of the block. We also have a long second term to go with a lot of amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u233	Fine. I would also like to answer Mr Ronnes's question on the three-year deadline for voting without compensation. He suggested five years, because he could justify it getting shorter, but from ten years to three years he thought it was a rather big step. I think that three years is not really too short, because voting away without compensation is only possible if the incumbent owner has not actually used up the possibility of an environmental plan for at least four years, three plus one. So the conditions are that the incumbent owner didn't actually do anything for three years, that the proposed modification of the environmental plan was announced, and that within one year of that announcement the owner didn't use the possibilities he had. So it's actually three years plus one year. That seems fair and well-balanced to me. On the one hand, this meets the importance of the municipality or province to respond to new developments, and on the other hand, I think it does enough justice to the interest of the incumbent owner. So I hope that will convince Mr Ronnes. Finally, in this small block, Mr Bishop's question on shadow damage. He also asked if I was prepared to set up a working group of experts to review that arrangement. It is true: Mr Bishop has clearly seen that the proposal before us does not contain any legal framework for the compensation of shadow damage. I did not choose to make a separate arrangement for this because we want initiators themselves to take measures to limit potential damage. For example, a noise protection system for homes or the installation of planting because of the view. So a scheme for shadow damage actually crosses the shift from the point of use for damage to the authorisation or start of the activity. And a scheme for shadow damage is a little bit the same reasoning as before. It also prevents the making of global plans. Because the moment you do make that arrangement, all those involved will be much less inclined to really look for solutions. So we're going to focus more automatically on a damages procedure. And a survey among municipalities and provinces also shows that this is very limited. I therefore believe that what is now before us is balanced and workable. And I have extensively aligned the scheme, including with damage experts, and therefore I do not think it is necessary to set up another working group. I would, however, like to assure Mr Bishop that we will also look closely at the effects of the disadvantage compensation in monitoring and evaluation. Mr President, those were the questions of this chapter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u234	Mr. Ronnes, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u235	I've got two points on the plan damage. One. The Minister states that the average is 5%. "The average" already indicates that there are situations where the limit is below 5%. So my reasoning is, what's the reason we want to do those people down? If damage is suffered, we believe that it should be compensated. That's one. Two. The Minister states that this is about "global plans," and that would be the reason to raise the border. Only in my opinion is it exactly in the Environment Act, and also in this introduction law, that is how do I put it? Only when the building is built or put into service will the damage occur. So it is not necessary at all to use that argument of a "global plan"? Because the plan damage doesn't go in until the activity is realized.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u236	First, on the first point. In fact, we are now trading a "at least" standard and uncertainty for a fixed percentage and thus security. And that is a fixed percentage that also corresponds to the average outcome that is now there. I'd say it's worth getting rid of that uncertainty. Then there's the other point. Yeah, but it does have effect on the front. The effect at the front is a certain degree of risk avoidance when making plans that we would like to offer. The municipality should make some more global plans, precisely in order to allow for different options. If the municipality is going to act from the perspective of the excessive risk of damage in its eyes, it will not do so. In that sense, the cat will bite its tail if we do what Mr Ronnes suggests here. At least that's my fear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u237	Very briefly, Mr Smeulders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u238	Yeah. Shortly, yeah. I understood that 5% in the case of plan damage as a sort of minimum: from now on from 5%. I can't imagine that that's really a fixed amount and you get a maximum of 5% in case of massive plan damage.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u239	No, you actually define your own risk with that 5%. Instead of saying that its own risk is at least 2% but can also be higher, we say: we are now simply setting it at that 5%. So it's not gonna be anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u240	Residents, who were previously entitled to a fee from 2%, now have this from 5%.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u241	No, at least now I repeat: at least 2% you wear, but in practice it is often 5%. It could be a little higher. We're getting off that "at least"; we're just putting it at 5%. Then everyone at the front will have security. In practice, it is now also often 5%.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u242	We're going to the next block.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u243	Yeah, the transitional right. A few questions have been asked about this, mainly by Mr Ronnes, when I see it that way. Has the transitional right for companies been tested in practice? "Yes," is the short answer. That's done and discussed. It seems to be working well and going to work. I think it is important that the transitional right is clear for the implementation practice and therefore for companies. So I'm gonna keep my eye on that. The answer to Mr Ronnes' question is 'yes'. What happens, asked Mr Ronnes, if municipalities do not have an environmental vision within three years of the entry into force of the law? Actually, I've already answered that question. I am looking at Mr Ronnes, but he has already heard my previous answer on this point. Mr Ronnes asked for 2029, but Mrs Laan had already done so, so I have already answered that question. Then I will go to Mr Bishop, who asked whether companies would not have to deal with much stricter rules and enforcement. He asked if anything should be done for the companies to take them into it. The transitional right is so arranged that companies that now comply with the rules when they enter into force can continue under the same conditions; then there is nothing to worry about. For example, the old permit is considered an environmental permit under the Environmental Act. The content of the old licensing rules remains valid, but sometimes rules need to be tightened, for example because there are new ways or techniques to protect the environment. Then there is a transitional period. It is important to clarify this too. We need to choose a clear language so that companies can get away with it. So that is what we will do in the implementation. Mr. Chairman. Then I'm at the DSO, the Digital System Environment Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u244	Mr Ronnes has a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u245	Yes, about the transitional arrangements, when it comes to activities rather than establishments. The Environment Act is based on activities instead of establishments. If you apply for a change of an activity within the Environmental Act, but there are several activities within an establishment, you're stuck. There seems to be nothing for that in the Environment Act. I asked that question in the first place. I do not know if you can answer it in this way, but otherwise you may be able to come back to it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u246	I wrote him down, and I'm sure I intend to get back to you in the second term, Mr. Ronnes. Mr. Chairman. I go on to the Digital System Environment Act, on which a number of questions have been asked. I will end with a few questions on finance, but first of all the state of play of the Digital System. Some asked if it would be ready in time and where we are now. The Digital System will be ready when it enters into force. It will also provide the basic level that is necessary and comparable to the current level of service. It's actually being worked on every day. A try-out version is already available, so you can already test it. This means that if the entry into force is there, digital environmental permits can be applied for and activities can be reported. The most common activities will be subject to a permit check. We're working on a good way to unlock this. I have already promised the Chamber that I will keep you informed of progress on this point every year anyway. That was a question from Mr Smeulders. You know that we have an implementation monitor for the Environment Act, which is inter-administrative. The monitoring reports are presented to the Chamber, but they are also used by other authorities when they are introduced. Mr Ronnes asked whether governments were sufficiently prepared technically and financially to join the Digital System. That is also the case. In a way, this is not entirely new to the other governments either. They're already connected to the online environment window. We do practical tests to know how local systems can be connected to the DSO. We've already done some of them. New practical tests will be carried out in 2019. Local authorities have also reserved a budget to connect their systems to the national supply. It's on the monitor I was just talking about. The umbrella organisations are also helping the grassroots. Have municipalities, provinces and also water boards been sufficiently addressed? As I just said, they're very involved. The domes are also incredibly helpful in the development and in the practical trials I mentioned. Well, that's a good thing to say. In other words, if we continue to work in this way, we will be ready well in time for entry into force. Then the other governments have enough time to adapt their own systems and we have been able to practice them to a sufficient extent. Mr Smeulders referred to the lessons of decentralisation in the social domain. One of the reasons for starting in good time throughout the entire process, even when the Environment Act was still in force, are those lessons from the social domain. If there's one thing we've learned from that, it's that you have to start early and work well together. You shouldn't come up with a new system here and roll it out over the other governments, but you need to get together. So that's what we're doing. That's the way it works, too. For example, we help the municipalities on their way with a so-called dowry, in which we add the rules that we decentralise to the municipality's temporary environmental plan. We also started early on with the Digital System. It's made and tested together. The SGP focused in particular on SMEs in the new Digital System. That is right, but we already have a great deal of attention to this in the current way of working. The DSO is very useful for SMEs when it comes to it, because it is much more user-friendly than the current systems. You can find things digitally easier, even in a much more accessible way. This is also important for SMEs. We have also involved SMEs in the construction of the DSO through soundboard groups and user tests. So we know that it is indeed SME proof, as Mr Bishop said nicely. Let's see, domes, implementation, monitor, municipalities. I called the domes all that do a lot of work. The VNG and the municipalities have a programme called Getting started with the Environment Act, in which they exchange knowledge, experiences and practical examples. I am very pleased with the role played by the VNG in there. Mr Van Gerven asked Mr Van Gerven to go into more detail about whether the municipalities are actually ready. I told you, we're good together. The basic level of rural facilities is ready more than a year before entry into force, so that these municipalities have sufficient time to connect their own systems to it. The main digital standards are already available; so governments, municipalities and also their software providers can already work with the connection of their systems. This spring a try-out version of the national supply will be delivered, allowing municipalities and software providers to practice and test. Mrs Van Eijs asked: do municipalities have to offer their information in the same way? Yes and no, because the information must comply with certain standards in order to be shown in the DSO. These standards impose requirements for example on the shape and structure of the environmental plan. As far as the content is concerned, the municipalities must comply with the rules of instruction, but they do have freedom of policy. So the content of course differs; that makes sense. The content differs, and it has to be done within some kind of format. The Digital System contains a system catalogue in which all kinds of concepts can be found in environmental plans. They can match each other's terminology, but we do not impose terminology as such, because that is precisely where the policy space that we like to give to the municipalities applies. Mrs Van Eijs also asked how governments connect to the DSO. The Publication Act requires that decisions pursuant to the Environment Act be published electronically and made available in the National Provision Making known and making available, the LVBB. The Publication Act lays down requirements on how this should be done and Article 20.28 of the Environment Act requires competent authorities to use the national provision of the DSO for receiving and requesting notifications. So this is another refinement of the answer to Mrs Van Eijs' question. Is access to the Digital System taken into account as early as this? In other words, is a somewhat understandable language going to be used? Yes. A lot of information in the digital window is understandable for people with language level B1; then you have 95% of the Dutch population. An exception is the information from decisions. The texts of decisions are not adapted in the national provisions. It also requires legal terms. Furthermore, filters are used in that system, so you can quickly search for relevant information. For the most common activities, legal rules are offered in a kind of question tree, whereby the initiator can, with a kind of question-answer dialogue, check for himself whether he is subject, for example, to authorisation. A great deal of attention is therefore paid to accessibility. Mrs Laan's question was whether external expertise would also be involved, because she said: some things are of course very technical; perhaps we do not have all that knowledge and expertise together. Well, there are numerous knowledge organisations involved, for example Rijkswaterstaat and the Land Registry. Geonovum also, who of course manage the current important digital facilities that we use. We use external knowledge through universities and we have also consulted industry through the so-called ICT market test. Global standards are being used. Together with this expertise, we are working on the system. Mrs Laan had also asked if she could get access to some kind of first test to see how it works and how it works. I've had a demonstration of my own from where we are now. If the Chamber appreciates that, I am, of course, willing to organise it for the members of the Chamber. I have a number of points on the DSO. Mr Ronnes was right to say that there was a BIT opinion. We followed that up. I think he asked if there should be a new BIT opinion. An update, I hear. We have made maximum use of the BIT advice to organise the process as we have now arranged it on the way to a basic Digital System. So both the process and the final Digital System is totally BIT-proof, to use that word again. That basic level will be delivered at the end of this year. I would really like to give that priority. Going through a new BIT procedure takes a lot of time. We just do exactly what is advised in the BIT advice, step by step. That was actually the most important part of BIT advice, to do it step by step, not to try to create something very big and perfect and to set up the process so that you can build on something step by step that allows you to check every time you do it properly. That's what we do. A new BIT advice or a test from the BIT at this stage, I wouldn't be for that. Of course, we have to keep checking ourselves if we are indeed doing it as advised by the BIT. If it was finally delivered at the end of the year, we can check ourselves through the tests and the user panels whether it has fulfilled what the BIT has advised. There are just a few points that have to do with the financial aspects of the Digital System. Mr Nijboer drew attention to this. He knows that in spring I reported to the Chamber that 90 million had been made available to the Digital System. I am confident that this will enable us to move forward with the law, the Digital System that is needed for this and the implementation. Other amounts that have sometimes figured out in the media are figuring out in the media, but that's not what I'm assuming. That's where we stand. Mr Van Gerven asked whether it would be useful to create a transition fund. That won't be necessary. We have made really good agreements with the other governments about the relationship between the transition costs they make now and the savings they make later. Those agreements are in the financial agreement. This is the agreement concluded in 2016 with the municipalities, the provinces and the waterboards. At the end of last year I further developed these agreements in the management agreement on the Digital System. So here, too, we're pulling up hand in hand. In that management agreement, we agreed that the costs of introducing the co-governments are, but on the other hand, that the structural savings that will be made will not be reduced on the Province and Municipal Fund. I simply see that money is being made available by the other governments for the costs of implementation. So there are no cost overruns, I say in the direction of Mr Ronnes. Estimates were made. During the execution of course you always have risks and they can materialize. We'll have to catch it. But the cost of achieving the basic level of rural provision is expected to remain within the initial estimate we have for that. He also asked whether we have a good idea of all the possible effects of the introduction, including in terms of costs, and whether there is enough money, including for the other governments. That is a little in line with other Members' questions. I refer again to the administrative agreement and the agreement that I concluded at the end of last year, the good agreements with municipalities, the provinces and the water authorities, their own financial responsibility for realising the introduction and the money that the cabinet has made available to accompany the introduction inter-administratively. They are supported by the umbrella organisations. The VNG has made available a dialogue model for understanding transition and investment costs. That's very useful, too. And, as I said, the other governments have also reserved a budget for this implementation. Finally, under this block, Mr Ronnes asked whether it was cost-neutral for municipalities. It is clear from what I have said that we have made good agreements on this matter. There are costs on the one hand, benefits on the other. These benefits also end up with the municipalities. In other words, the governance agreement in which that payback is made is the basis for our agreements. All the financial analyses show that the entire operation ultimately yields more than it costs in structural terms. Mr President, that was the Digital System section.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u247	Can I conclude from the Minister's argument that the introduction of the Digital System Environment Act does not pose any financial problems for the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u248	That is a very brief summary of what I have just said. I have said that we have made good agreements on this, that on the one hand money has been made available by the Empire for implementation, that on the other hand funds have been made available to the municipalities, that we have a process agreement with each other, and that we have a governance agreement with each other. By this I say that we have made good financial agreements, including with the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u249	The Minister repeats what she has already said, but my question was another. My question was: are there now municipalities that have financial difficulties in making the entire digitisation operations, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u250	I made arrangements with the VNG. The VNG helps the municipalities. I am not familiar with individual municipalities that have such a problem. I can't rule out that there are, but again, I made agreements with the VNG. These are for municipalities, represented by the VNG, manageable and good agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u251	Following on from what I just asked in my speech and just tried to ask the Minister. The government and ICT are not always happy wedding partners. That doesn't always bring out the best things. Can the Minister assure me that the best ICT people in the government are working on this project? Aren't they gonna reinvent the wheel? We had a presentation. That gave some reassurance. But are all the recommendations that have come out of the Elias Committee constantly being monitored in this project? I don't think I need to spell out the abbreviation "BRP" here. This project is so big, regardless of what needs to be rolled out at local level, that we still have concerns about it. I understand that it is moving in the right direction, but I hope that we can leave the previous period behind and leave behind a nice example of something that has just gone well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u252	Of course. Me, too. In this case, we have deliberately chosen parties that also manage and have created the current facilities. So there is a lot of knowledge and expertise there. I think we have learned a number of things, without having the lessons from the Elias report here exactly ready: take one, sufficient time; two, test and keep testing, and do it in such a way that you can keep adjusting. It's called a hip word "agile." The BIT opinion, which has been produced, has in some sense been a kind of injury in disguise. This has saved us from taking the wrong approach and has led us to have a step-by-step approach and to build something that is manageable and a foundation, laying the foundations for something that works. During the construction of that system, we have always tested whether it actually works. So I do think we should learn from each other from those cases where things didn't go well. I think we have shown here that at least we have learned those lessons well. The process is arranged as it should be. I am confident, also on the basis of what I have seen from the interim results and from what I hear from the other parties involved, that we are doing this in a good way and that we can say at the end of this year: yes, we have a basic provision that everyone can join and work well in time for the introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u253	Then it's the second last block.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u254	I'm trying to see if I'm not...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u255	I'll take one cube, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u256	I believe that I also immediately involved the implementation of the DSO in the treatment of the other issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u257	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u258	Then there is the European Landscape Treaty, also known as the Florence Convention. The question was whether this should not be explicitly included and appointed in the law. You don't have to. The Environment Act and the AMvBs implement the European Landscape Treaty. The fact that the treaty is not mentioned does not really change that. Because landscape as such has been mentioned as one of the parts of the habitat, which is the subject of the Environment Act. The instruments of the Environment Act can therefore be used to protect the landscape. That's a matter for the provinces. That's what we were talking about at first. In order to protect the landscape properly, it is not necessary to mention the European Landscape Treaty. So that's the answer to the question of whether it shouldn't be in it. I believe that an amendment has also been tabled, but the amendments will not be discussed until later. So I will respond to that by the time I have a stable overview of the amendments. But the story is that it does not need to be mentioned to implement the European Landscape Treaty. Mr. Smeulders, I see you want to interrupt. This is the rest of the block, so of course everything is going to be mixed up, but the President is completely out of order. Mr Ronnes asked about water safety, and he has just clarified this in his interruption. In the current system, standards for the various aspects are fragmented. I said that at first. The Environmental Act regulates all standards at one level, namely at the level of a general measure of governance. That contributes to the clarity. I would not like to make an exception for water, but I understand that Mr Ronnes did not want that either. However, the Environmental Law stipulates that environmental values must be established in order to ensure the safety of the quay walls. Their height varies again by dike route. This is also a set of standards laid down in the Decision quality living environment. The Chamber is always obliged to be involved in that set of standards by means of the standing procedure. Mr Smeulders asked about the deadline for entry into force after publication of the environmental permit. If I understood him correctly, he suggested doing six weeks instead of four weeks. He supported this by saying that this would be common practice for other decisions as well. I believe that is not the case. The main rule now is that a decision enters into force immediately after it has been published; think of a building permit. The arrangements for entry into force after four weeks are therefore, in fact, already an exception to that rule and, in my opinion, provide ample opportunity for bringing an action and seeking a preliminary ruling. This strikes a balance between speed on the one hand and speed on the other, which, of course, is also important, and guarantees of legal protection on the other. By the way, and perhaps I should have started with that, that four-week period comes from a motion from the First Chamber, the Meijer motion. Mr Ronnes suggested integrating the Housing Act into the Environment Act. That is not so easy at the moment and I do not think it is wise to do so now, also because the policy on housing is still in motion. Mr Ronnes is well aware that we are also dealing with the Housing Act on a number of points. Room is such a subject: tackling the holiday rental. But I can imagine that there's gonna be a moment, when all this is a little shivered out, that you might be able to see integration into the Environment Act. That can always happen later, but I would like those other issues to be addressed before we talk about integration into the Environment Act. Then there is the question of hiring, a point by Mr Van Gerven. It's true: finding people with good expertise for this kind of thing is quite difficult. If that's his concern, I'll share it. However, I do not think that this should lead, in reverse, to the fact that municipalities should not be allowed to hire people. We all know how hard it is to find these people. This applies to municipalities, but also to other organisations and companies. If I put the municipalities now that they can't hire those people, it's only gonna be a lot harder. I think it's a good starting point. Many municipalities also want to have their own people, but it is sometimes necessary and also useful to be able to involve people from outside in order to ensure that it is done in a good way. This may also involve temporary work. There can be a huge peak in the works of a municipality, for example because they have to make an environmental plan. If a city wants to do that with partial hire, my idea would be to respect that. Then there is Mr Ronnes' question and I also thought of Mr Bishop on property rights. The obedience obligations laid down in the Prohibiting Law on Private Law, to which Mr Ronnes refers, are included in the Environmental Law, including the compensation scheme. The duty of tolerance is used to intervene in property. The Environment Act provides for an appropriate compensation scheme. The obligation of tolerance is subject to the right to compensation for any damage directly caused by the obligation of tolerance, e.g. loss of sales to farmers if they could no longer grow their crops. So that's how it's organized. Mr. Chairman. A question asked by Mr Van Gerven was whether the municipality itself should adapt an environmental plan to include standards of well-being. This concerns the so-called repressive welfare requirement. This means that the appearance of a building must not seriously conflict with reasonable demands of well-being. This will be included in all the environmental plans in the so-called dowry, I mentioned earlier in the introduction decision. Mrs Laan asked whether an insight into the state of affairs could be given by setting up a municipal advisory committee instead of a welfare committee. This question is somewhat along the lines of Mr Van Gerven's point. We're prepping. In the coming period, the aim is to identify, together with the VNG and the Federation of Spatial Quality, the possibilities for well-being advice in a good way in the new system. On this basis, it will be possible to consider how further support should be provided in the form of exemplary arrangements and information on the functioning of such a consultative commission. Mr Nijboer asked whether the draft law for the Introduction Act also examined the introduction of a plan-based benefit tax. That has happened, but we do not think it is appropriate to add a levy to the existing possibilities. Municipalities may, under certain conditions, levy a profit tax on existing owners, for example to fix a spoiled shopping street. In the Land Property Supplementary Act, the possibility for cost story in new construction is available for those who benefit from it. But we still end up in the treatment of the Supplementary Land Property Act. Then we can discuss this further in the debate. Mrs Van Eijs paid attention to the neighbouring countries. She also mentioned a possible nymby behavior, such as wind farms near the Belgian border. I do not know exactly which side of the Belgian border she saw these wind farms on. However, if there are projects with significant environmental impacts, and they have large wind farms, then an environmental impact assessment is indeed mandatory. In addition, there is the so-called Espoo Convention, which provides for the involvement of neighbouring authorities in the decision to be taken in the event of cross-border environmental impacts. This convention has been implemented in the Environmental Act as part of the environmental impact assessment regulation. So you avoid a situation like that that Mrs Van Eijs called attention to. Mr Kops asked if we know what the Introduction Act actually delivers per citizen. The municipality will be given the opportunity to abolish licensing obligations for construction. Mr Kops also knows that these kinds of permits and applications are not easy. These are therefore administrative burdens that are being saved. In addition, the citizen pays fees to the municipality. We charge an amount per application of up to €4,000 for citizens and up to €8,000 for companies. So the more permits abolish municipalities, the more money save citizens and businesses. So it also depends on the numbers, I just wanted to say. Mr. Chairman. Finally, a question from Mr Smeulders. He asked whether there would be quality criteria for the implementation of authorisation, supervision and enforcement, and whether the biennial examination of this implementation would become public. The current Authorisation, Monitoring and Enforcement Act and the decision to do so contain quality criteria for such implementation. Those are rules that go into the Environment Act. This is also the responsibility of Stientje van Veldhoven, the State Secretary for Infrastructure and Water State. The investigation is public and can be sent to your Chamber anyway. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the end of the many questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u259	Thank you. It was a lot of questions. I can see two more people coming forward. I assume that it is really very important to do this in the first term and not in the second, because otherwise I would really like to call on you to include the questions in your second term, if that is possible. First of all, Mr Smeulders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u260	My first question concerns the landscape and the arrangements made in Florence. As far as I am concerned, this question can be answered in second time, but I think it would be useful if that were to be sorted out now. We do not understand why fifteen similar regulations are included in the Environment Act and explicitly do not. These other arrangements are working, I think. That is what we would like to know. Then I have a second question. It's about the deadlines. What we simply find strange is that the environmental permit for irreversible activities will enter into force four weeks after publication, while the objection period will continue for another two weeks. The only thing we are asking is: isn't it smarter to just tie that up?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u261	Clear. Can the Minister now answer that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u262	No, if it's all right with you, I'll take it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u263	Yes. Then Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u264	The Minister has given a proper explanation of the obligation to tolerate and the compensation associated with it. I had the question of broadening the scope of the right of use. If commercial parties can make use of this, it would be reasonable for the owners to share in the rights of use. I would still like to invite the Minister to respond. That may also be done in the second term, if necessary, but this was a question that had not been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u265	I'd love to do that in the second term, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u266	Then we look in the direction of Mrs Van Eijs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u267	I had also called for attention to be paid to standard filling and the standstill principle, in other words, to ensure that the quality of our living environment does not deteriorate? I would like an answer to that, because I have prepared a motion for a resolution on this. I'd like to know if I still have to file it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u268	That's a good one. I have also prepared an answer for that. I don't really know why I didn't get there just now. Quite briefly and without paper support: the principle of standstill actually applies, because standstill means that you do not want any deterioration of the standards. There is also no deterioration of the standards in the law. It is a little broader to say that this stand still should be applied to everything, even in the whole sphere of spatial planning. But when it comes to these standards, one could say that practice is indeed what Mrs Van Eijs has asked for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u269	Finalizing, Mrs. Van Eijs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u270	No decline in standards, that seems to me to be a good thing anyway. But these are also cases where, for example, nature reserves are already well above the standards. We have beautiful nature areas in the Netherlands that not only meet that base, but which are even better of quality. It would be a pity if, while we have those beautiful natural areas that are above the norm in all the values we can measure in them, we would say: well, there is a bit of a bit of a tooth off. I would like to hear from the Minister why we have not kept the principle that we do not want to go back there, so we have not kept a reduction to that standard.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u271	Maybe there is a misunderstanding here, because I believe that that part is simply covered by the law, but let me check with Mrs Van Eijs to see if we understand each other properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u272	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I would like to suggest that we proceed directly to the second deadline, assuming that there is a need for it. I shall begin by giving the floor to Mr Smeulders. I see three minutes' speaking time for Mr Smeulders. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u273	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. It's a long sitting and, of course, it's a very complicated bill for all of us. I would like to comment on a few points, and then I would like to table two motions. The first point on which I would like to draw particular attention is the subject of participation. We just talked about that. The Minister has indicated that it is important to do the participation as much as possible at the initial stage. That is why I am very interested in the Minister's opinion on the two amendments we have tabled on the extended procedure, which mean that more participation will be regulated at the very beginning. I hope that will be supported by the Minister. I can state in advance that I was inclined to do so this evening's Bureau of Legislation was no longer available to table a motion to add the lack of participation as a real ground for refusal. If we have a system of the Environment Act in which we say that participation is so important, it should also be possible for a municipality or a province to say that it simply ends if there is no participation at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u274	If you need the Bureau of Legislation, you will probably be announcing an amendment. You mentioned "a motion," but a motion will be the last opportunity this evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u275	I know. This is an amendment that we are going to send around sometime in the next few days.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u276	Okay, then we understand each other well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u277	I would have liked to have done it now, but we don't have the support anymore. I totally understand that. All due respect to Bureau of Legislation, because I think we've made them quite crazy together today, but they've stood up proudly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u278	But you were talking about "a motion," which is why I interrupted you for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u279	I agree. The motions are coming. One more point before I get to the motions. It's about material standards. I would ask the Minister to go into this more clearly in the second period, because it is still not quite clear to me why material standards could therefore be added about water safety and not, for example, air quality at the level of the law. Then two motions. The first motion is about the soft interests. The Minister has said that she is going to send us information on the way in which, for example, the Ministry is currently working with local authorities to safeguard these interests. In the meantime, I shall put forward a motion for a resolution, because this is the time to submit it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that with the introduction of the Environmental Law, decentralised authorities will be given more discretion and discretion with regard to the physical environment;]] [[Whereas economic benefits of an activity for a municipality are often faster and more visible than long-term environmental and health impacts;]] [[Whereas this may lead to so-called "soft" values being undermined by the lack of clear frameworks from the government for weighing different interests;]] [[Whereas, among other things, the Health Council indicates that the government should play an active role in developing a method of quantifying so-called soft values;]] [[calls on the government, in consultation with local authorities, to develop a method of quantifying soft values such as the environment, health and climate, and to inform the Chamber of the results,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Smeulders and Mr Van Eijs. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34986-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u280	In view of the time, I will proceed immediately with the second motion. This is in fact in line with the opinion of the College of National Advisors on landscape. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in recent years various decentralisations have taken place in the social domain and physical domain;]] [[Whereas, following decentralisation, different concepts or monitoring and measurement methods are used, making it difficult to compare;]] [[Whereas it is important to have a clear picture at national level within the framework of system responsibility in order to properly monitor the effects of the new system;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with local authorities, to develop a nationwide monitoring system for the landscape and to involve the results of the monitoring in the evaluation of the Environment Act,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Smeulders and Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34986-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u281	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For the sake of time I will try to finish it within the set time. First of all, I will deal with some of the amendments that we will be tabling. First of all, this is an amendment on the damage to the plan. We are proposing that the 5% should be reduced to 2%. That amendment is tabled together with Mr Smeulders. Then there is the position of the council vis-à-vis the college. We've talked about that extensively. We have tabled an amendment on this point. 18 in. The amendment in part No. 15 is about the significant importance. We have discussed this before in the adoption of the Environment Act. Tonight we had that discussion again. I'd still like to hear the Minister's exact appreciation tonight. The amendment we are tabling together with the SGP, which my colleague has already announced, concerns the infringement of property rights. Then there are two other amendments on which we have doubts as to whether we will do so. Mr Smeulders has already announced this. The first concerns the discussion on participation by derogation from the environmental plan. In doing so, I would ask whether the Minister would like to give an appreciation of that at the time, later this week, that that amendment be put into effect. The same is true of the amendment on water safety. Then, again, Mr Smeulders, it is not about laying down the standards in the law, but about anchoring the principles and principles of water safety. Then I have another motion, chairman, on the Digital System Environment Act. The content speaks for itself. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the opinion of the ICT Review Office (BIT) on the Digital System Environment Act (DSO) programme on 7 September 2017;]] [[Whereas the DSO programme builds the digital infrastructure necessary for the implementation of the new Environment Act;]] [[Calls on the Government to update the BIT in December 2019 on the progress and state of play of the Digital System Environment Act, and to inform the Chamber of the results,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Ronnes, Mr Laan-Geselschap and Mr Smeulders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34986-26]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u282	Mr President, I will look very quickly at my notes to see if I have forgotten one more point... Yes, the Minister would come back to the point I raised about provinces which still do not see the establishment versus activity sufficiently anchored in the transitional law. The Minister would come back to that in the second term. Should it be necessary to rely on that answer.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I would also like to conclude by thanking the Minister very much for her contribution and her commitment, because it is a very complex and complex law. I think that we have already had a very good first-term treatment with colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u283	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Gerven for his second term. Also for him three minutes on the clock.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u284	Mr. Chairman. Does the legal treatment of this evening lead to a better law, i.e. to more democracy, less bureaucracy and an increase in quality? I don't know, I have to be honest. I'm not very hopeful yet. A lot of amendments have been tabled, including from the SP side. I await the Minister's appreciation. In any case, I hope that the amendment to item No. 23, on the participation protocol, can count on its approval, given the discussion we have had. I shall first read out a number of motions, so that at least we do not exceed the time. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that municipalities and provinces are faced with a major challenge with the introduction of the Environment Act system and that the government estimates the costs of introducing 145 million euros for adaptation to the Environmental Act and 80 million euros for the Digital System Environment Act;]] [[considers that the introduction of the new system should not be at the expense of existing municipal tasks;]] [[calls on the government to set up a transition fund to which municipalities can claim to adapt to the future situation of the Environment Act,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that with the entry into force of the Environmental Act, the Air Quality National Cooperation Programme ceases to exist and that the Clean Air Agreement does not provide the same legal means to combat transboundary air pollution;]] [[considers that the amendments introduced by the Environmental Act should ensure an equivalent level of protection in the field of air quality;]] [[calls on the Government to incorporate into the system of the Environmental Act the existing shared responsibility existing within the Air Quality National Cooperation Programme,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Environment Act system includes many safety and health standards in lower regulation and that standards for the safety of primary quays, maximum indoor noise levels and also the assessment framework for permits at law level are included;]] [[considers that these standards and this assessment framework should be incorporated at law level;]] [[calls on the Government to include these standards and this framework in the series of Supplementary Laws in the Environment Act,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34986-27]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34986-28]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34986-29]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u285	Finally, I will deal with the equivalent level of protection that would be guaranteed by the new Environment Act. I would like to point out again on page 6 of the Council of State, which has doubts about this. In fact, the Council of State concludes: when we look at the decisions that have been made and the law that is in place, we conclude that only an equivalent level of protection is provided, depending on the commitment and considerations at the decentralised level. So we depend on what the municipality does. The question is whether this provides a sufficient level of protection. Shouldn't we put a national head on that? In any case, the SP is of that opinion. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u286	Thank you. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Kops. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u287	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be brief. Thanks to the Minister. I understood that she would come back to the experimental space in Article 23.3. I thought I'd missed it, but apparently that's not the case. If the Minister would like to do so in the second term: very much! Mr. Chairman. I'll file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Environment Act provides for the possibility for administrative bodies to "experiment" and even depart from national laws and regulations;]] [[Whereas the Environment Act should not be misused for the realisation of wind farms, asylum seekers' centres and mosques;]] [[calls on the Government to exclude the creation of wind farms, asylum seekers' centres and mosques in the further implementation and implementation of the Environment Act,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Kops. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34986-30]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u288	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u289	Thank you. Then we come to Mr Bishop. May I give you the floor for your second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u290	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, thank you to the Minister for answering the questions. I've got two motions. And I have just tabled an amendment. That amendment relates to a point which the Minister will come back to. It would be very nice if the Minister felt that this was so much to support policy that she could embrace it heartily. But we'll find out. Mr. Chairman. Two motions. The first concerns the SME test Digital System Environment Act. The Minister has explained how this has been achieved in consultation with SMEs and stakeholders, but we are nonetheless pointing out some concerns in this sector. Hence this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is very important that the Digital System Environment Act is also user-friendly for smaller companies;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out an independent SME test before implementing the Digital System Environment Act and to use its results for a Digital System as user-friendly as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop and Mr Ronnes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34986-31]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u291	The other motion concerns shadow damage. We believe that the answer given by the Minister should do a little more justice to the objection and reservations expressed by the Council of State in its opinion. Whether that should be because of this motion from me or because of Mr Ronnes' amendment, we will agree on that, but I will submit my motion in advance. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the shift from the time of compensation resulting from spatial development to the moment of authorisation or actual implementation of measures, and the use of a flat rate of 5% instead of 2% for normal social risk, will in practice be detrimental to the position of affected companies and property owners;]] [[Whereas the Council of State is critical of the chosen line in its opinion on the Environment Act;]] [[Whereas the desire for a more global implementation of environmental plans may still mean that parts of environmental plans are completed more or less in detail, with corresponding indirect planning damage;]] [[considers that a careful approach to shadow damage and indirect plan damage and any compensation thereof is desirable;]] [[calls on the Government to set up a working group of independent experts to review and, if necessary, reconsider the proposed arrangements for these compensations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34986-32]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u292	I would like to thank you for the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u293	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Van Eijs, for her second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u294	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Minister for answering the questions and colleagues for the discussion. It was nice to all of us to try to get through the finesses of this...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I noticed a shared need in the Chamber for participation to be given a serious place in the system, and I am therefore pleased that I have tabled two amendments on this and that I am able to keep the city council in position when it comes to plans that have not yet been drawn up in an environmental plan. There are two other minor issues on which I have a motion. Firstly, a motion on a clear criterion leading to better protection. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the inclusion of the criterion "no significant adverse effects on human health or the environment' is vague, as set out in Article 10.24 (4) of the Environment Decision;]] [[noting that the current Wabo criterion "which does not lead to any adverse effects on the environment other than under the applicable environmental authorisation and which does not lead to any establishment other than for which the environmental authorisation has been granted" provides clear frameworks;]] [[Whereas vague criteria lead to procedural complications which are ultimately time-consuming;]] [[whereas the Environment Act should lead to better and faster procedures and that clear criteria contribute to them;]] [[calls on the Government to incorporate the Wabo criterion in the Environment Decision instead of the current wording in Article 10.24, fourth paragraph,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Eijs. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34986-33]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u295	Then there is a motion on an assured standstill principle. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are sufficient spatial areas in which air, soil and water quality is well above the legal limit;]] [[noting that the standstill principle means, for example, that the environmental situation of a given area is not worse than when it is built up, even though the environmental situation was well above national standards;]] [[noting that in current law the standstill principle has been codified in Article 5.2 (3) of the Environmental Management Act, which deals with environmental quality requirements, and has not been incorporated into the Environmental Law;]] [[considers that new legislation should not lead to a deterioration of the environmental situation in certain areas;]] [[calls on the Government to extend the standstill principle to environmental values, in accordance with the opinion of the Council of State,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Eijs. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34986-34]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u296	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for handling this intriguing introduction law. Thank you to the Minister for dealing with all the questions. Thanks also to all behind-the-scenes officials, who have done a great deal of work for this. No motions or amendments from the VVD. We welcome the Minister's commitments and answers. We will strongly follow the effect of this law on all Dutch people in our beautiful country, because they will benefit from less and easier rules from the government. We would like to call once again on everyone to trust each other, to support the initiative and enthusiasm of many people in this country who want to do beautiful things, and to receive it with positive emotion. So thank you, Minister. We wish you every success and, above all, keep a close eye on the phenomenon of DSO and everything related to it. A number of colleagues in my group will do the same. In that sense, we will meet again on this subject. Thank you for chairing, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u297	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. The Minister has indicated that he needs about fifteen minutes to prepare himself for the response. During the answer we will, of course, pass through the questions asked, just like the questions that remain. The Minister will also give an opinion on the amendments and the motions. Thirteen amendments have now been tabled. A number of amendments have already been explained by the Minister in detail in the first period. I hope that will make judgment a little easier. Let's try to keep each other sharp in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u298	The next item is the reply by the Minister in the second term. The question to the Minister is to answer in addition to the questions, also to give an opinion on the motions and amendments. Can I appeal to the Members to deal with the questions and the like swiftly, so that we can fill it out a little more practically with each other, certainly for the sake of time? The Minister has the floor. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u299	Sure. Thank you very much, Mr President. I have a number of comments in advance, partly in response to questions that had not yet been answered. Some of them also come back in motions and amendments, but well, I think all Members know very well how to deal with them. The European Landscape Treaty. Mr Smeulders also asked: why other treaties and not this treaty? The Convention lays down a number of specific requirements for the legislation of the member countries. These requirements are included in the Environmental Act, for example the definition of the landscape. When we mention a treaty or a directive in the Environment Act, it always happens in the context that that treaty or directive requires further elaboration, for example in an AMvB. Unlike other conventions and directives, this convention does not require any effect in an AMvB. That is why it is not explicitly mentioned. So it's actually legislative technique; nothing more and nothing less. An amendment has been tabled on this point. I will come back to that later, but this is the explanation that goes with it. Well, let's make another point. I thought it was one of the most pressing points raised in this debate: the role of the Council by way of derogation from the environmental plans and proposals. Look, of course, we're all actually looking for a good involvement of the municipal councils. It is also sometimes quite difficult, especially when it comes to outdoor activities. So we want speedy procedures, we want care and we want justice to the role of the council. The establishment of an environmental plan is always with the board, even when it comes to minor changes. The jurisdiction of licences and other decisions lies with the College of B and W. That is no different now, because it is also so arranged in the Wabo. This is the permit for an activity which is wholly or partly different from the environmental plan. Then that role of the council comes into view. We were just having a couple of exchanges about that. For this role, the current legislative proposal contains an advisory right for cases identified by the Council itself. I note that part of the Chamber seems to think that is a little weak. Amendments have also been tabled. I could imagine, and that is why I share it with your Chamber in advance, that we would look for a variant in which the advisory right of the council as proposed by me is supplemented by the obligation for the college to refuse the licence, if the board indicates that it cannot agree with the proposed decision. So that is mine, as I say to Mr Ronnes, Mrs Van Eijs, Mr Smeulders and others, an attempt to incorporate the various points of view expressed here in an amendment to this proposal, which of course would have to be made by amendment. Other amendments have been tabled, but I am giving them this now, so that everyone can think about it. In short, therefore, the Board itself decides in which cases the proposed decision should be submitted to it. In these cases, the Council can express its wishes and reservations, and of course it can simply use all the political means it always has. But if the council says that it cannot agree with the proposed decision, then the college must refuse the permit. And if the council does agree, the permit can be granted. That would be my hand in the direction of those who have just asked questions about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u300	As President, I have a procedural question about this, because you are making a hand-out or a proposal, but the only person who can change the law is yourself with a letter of amendment. Unless an amendment is tabled. I also see Members looking a little bit questioning: what is happening? So if someone is tabling an amendment, that's fine. But when that does not happen, you should send a letter of amendment. But I see Mr Ronnes standing. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u301	I am quite willing to explore this option, in cooperation with and with the Ministry, to see if the amendment I have is capable of being converted into something that goes in that direction and meets our wishes. I haven't figured it out yet, but I do have the willingness to take a serious look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u302	Thank you. Mrs Van Eijs, on the same point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u303	I too am fine with looking at it, but I must honestly say that I do not fully understand what the difference is with the proposal I have made. I believe that the effect is exactly the same, but I hope that, with support, I will be able to make clear what is different in this proposal than in my proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u304	Thank you, because this is exactly why I have now proposed this. There are three amendments, which I shall be walking away from in different ways on the same subject. In the hygiene of the legislation, it is important for all the proposers that there will eventually be consistency in the law when voting. But indeed, what the chairman says is absolutely true. Mr Ronnes's hand-out could help. The proposal I am making could lead to this change in the House's amendment. That would be my preference. I will come to all the amendments in a moment. Then there is participation, another important issue, alongside the role of the council. The Environmental Scheme includes submission requirements for participation in environmental permits. We just talked about it. We think it is important that an amendment by the Chamber of Deputies should also show that a clear basis is being created to encourage initiators to organise participation. I have just outlined that, if this has not happened, the competent authority can act, so that participation can always be taken into account in the licensing process. But I have heard very well in the first term that an important part of the Chamber says it wants a stick behind the door. The suggestion has been made that the competent authority should have the possibility of refusing a licence if participation has not been taken. Again, I am trying to see if we can find each other in this. We could arrange for municipalities to identify cases where such participation is mandatory. That, of course, should be clearly defined. I don't think you should want to take care of that for everything, but I can imagine that you're taking care of activities that have or could have a significant impact on the physical environment, against which several stakeholders are expected to have concerns. If an initiator does not arrange for participation, some of the spokesmen were just concerned about it. In such a case, the competent authority could decide not to deal with the application. That is not exactly what Mrs Van Eijs, for example, suggested, but it is, I think, a long way in the direction, because that means that you can make sure that the permit cannot be granted because the application cannot be dealt with. We shouldn't be getting too involved in jurisdiction, but this would, for my part, be a suggestion to find each other on this point too. That is a bit the same as for my previous point: if this were to appeal to one or more Members, this could also be changed in the case of amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u305	In the context of pure legislation, I would now like to hear from the Minister what it means by participation and when participation is not satisfactory, so that an initiator knows when his application is not being processed, as you put it. Does it mean that 80% of the environment must have responded? If there are only three people and one is responding, isn't that enough? As part of the purely legal assessment, I would like to know what participation is and when it will be sufficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u306	There is indeed a point that Mrs Laan has to make. But you also shouldn't impose it completely from above, because that's not gonna work. I have just argued that this is different per project and that we should leave room for local customization. So my suggestion is that we make participation compulsory as such, but that we still leave room for a local consideration of how to do so. If an initiator says that he has organised participation in his proposal, it should be made clear in that proposal that stakeholders have played a role in this. I wouldn't want you to work in front of me with percentages or anything like that, which Mrs Laan fears.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u307	Finalizing, Mrs. Laan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u308	I understand the Minister's comprehension, but if I had to work on this wording at the moment, as initiator, I would no longer know what I am up to. Plus that your randomness works out, because in one village it is, but when you're a village further away, it's different. With all due respect, what exactly does the word "participation" mean? Are you gonna talk to me or are people gonna agree? When it is said in the Netherlands 'you do participate', this often creates the expectation that people should already agree with it. I understand that we do not understand all of this, Mr Ronnes mumbles behind me too, but as far as I am concerned, participation is really a totally outlawed term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u309	No, because we have just found that the good thing about the new way of working is that, in most cases, participation is already provided for by itself. This is encouraged by the municipalities, but in practice the initiators themselves are doing it more and more. The concern I have just listened to is that there would be no stick behind the door of the municipalities and that there might still be parties, without a doubt a minority, but that was the fear: yes, but it should not, so I will not do it. That's an undesirable situation. You could avoid that with the hand-me-down I'm trying to do. We determine the cases together with the municipalities. We arrange for municipalities to designate cases where participation is mandatory. Once again, we do not do that by imposing how participation should take place, because that is tailor-made. I don't think you can impose that unilaterally from above, but it could happen, I think. We need to find a good wording for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u310	I participate, we all participate. I'd like to make another attempt. The amendment in part No. 23 is about the participation protocol. Could it be that what the Minister has now brought about gets a place in it? You had already indicated in your first term that you do feel that way. Therefore, you could indicate what is and is not mandatory. Is that a solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u311	I have just said that I am going to deal with the amendments in this way, and last but not least with Mr Van Gerven's amendment. I would like to say that I am afraid that Mr Van Gerven's amendment will actually be exactly what Mrs Laan fears and what I am actually warning you about. It's customization. If we try to fill that out in front, it's not gonna work. So my suggestion was another one: to say that it has to happen, but not to say how it should happen. Mr Van Gerven goes quite far in his amendment, but I will come to that in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u312	Well, maybe we can finish it right away, or we'll have the same discussion later. In conclusion, Mr Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u313	The participation protocol is, of course, mainly a process-based description of what is expected. That is indeed not a percentage or anything like that, because that is extremely detailed. I think this fits in perfectly with what the Minister has just outlined and also with what we have exchanged in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u314	But then I would like to invite Mr Van Gerven, having heard what we have just discussed, to take a look at his own amendment. I think that from his amendment, however sympathetic I find the idea of helping, there are some very great limitations on what I see as customization. Projects are different, local conditions are different and I do not really want to prescribe how to do it. In its present form, therefore, this is an amendment which I will have to advise against. Mr. Chairman. I'm going back to the remaining questions. Mr Smeulders spoke about the deadline for entry into force, which he wanted to extend from four to six weeks. Short procedures are the starting point. When it comes to cases where there is now a deferred entry into force of four weeks, I have just given some explanation in my first period of time, and it would not be a matter for me to extend it to six weeks. But he has not, I believe, tabled an amendment to that effect, and it is necessary to do so. Mr. Chairman. Mr Ronnes asked me what the change of one activity in a permit meant for the rest of the licence. He already asked in his first term if this was done properly. If the holder of the authorisation wishes to modify one of these activities, he shall apply for an environmental authorisation. The competent authority may merge this new environmental permit with the existing environmental permit into one clear permit. The authorisation holder may also ask the competent authority to merge authorisations. So it remains a clear picture. It is my conviction that this is indeed well regulated, also in the transitional legislation. And we didn't get any signals that this would be a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u315	Brief question by Mr Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u316	I would like to come back to the debate for six weeks or four weeks, because the SP Group is preparing an amendment to align it to six weeks. Do I understand the Minister that she has no objection to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u317	I just said that when it comes to the cases where there is now a deferred entry into force of four weeks and the amendment would only be in favour of an extension to six weeks, I have no objection in principle. Then I'd find that discussable. But once again, I should be able to assess an amendment to that effect first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u318	Of course, so that's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u319	It was Mr Smeulders' idea, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u320	Yeah, but there were more parties who had the same opinion on that, so that's okay. I will also look with Mr Smeulders to see if we can do it together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u321	Your point, Mr. Van Gerven?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u322	This is what I'm interested in. A tree is being cut down, is the intention, which is 150 years old. Once it's been cut down, there's nothing you can do about it. Does the Minister agree, if we look at this example, that six weeks of suspension should be allowed in accordance with the objection period?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u323	I now have the idea that my friendly approach to a suggestion by Mr Smeulders is being stretched out by Mr Van Gerven, but I cannot entirely judge that, because I simply do not know whether the case he is now presenting falls within the cases I have just outlined or not. I really can't judge that right now. But at least I support what I have said, so I would like to see a proposal by Van Gerven/Smeulders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u324	That seems to me to be a sensible request, even in order to be able to judge it. May I ask you to continue with your reply?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u325	Yeah, sure. Water safety standards. I would like to come back to Mr Ronnes, who pointed out that, as far as he is concerned, the principles and principles of water safety should be laid down at law level rather than the standard itself. In my opinion, this applies to the system of the Environment Act and I can imagine that in Article 2.15 of the Environment Act we give more substantive guidance: where do standards of water safety apply, for example in relation to limiting the risk of death from floods and protecting the physical environment. The numerical effect is then as a concrete standard in the AMvB. I also owed Mr Kops an answer. That was about the experimental clause in article 23.3 of the Environment Act. The experimental clause does not regulate generic extra space for projects such as wind farms. That provision builds on experiments of the Crisis and Recovery Act. An experiment should always contribute to the improvement of the living environment. We must, of course, carefully weigh whether this is the case. That's my job. If the experimental clause is used, it is accompanied by additional safeguards, as is now the case in the Crisis and Recovery Act. I'll mention the veil here at your room. So the experimental clause in the Environment Act is only addressed if the regular instruments, i.e. the environmental plan or the project decision, are not sufficient. Finally, in the category of questions and comments, Mr Bishop's question. He asked why the Environment Act does not provide for a use fee for the imposition of tolerated obligations. I also said something about this in my first term. There is a right to compensation for any damage arising as a result of the compulsory admission to the Environment Act. The Environment Act does not provide for any use fee, as Mr Bisschop and Mr Ronnes propose. Neither does the current Obstruction Act. A user fee is not a consequence of the imposition of a tolerance obligation. It has to do with the operation of a company on the basis of the obligation of tolerance. Mr. Chairman. Then I think it would be appropriate for me to pass the motions first and finally the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u326	Yeah, the motion to part No. 24.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u327	The motion in part No. 24 by Smeulders and Van Eijs asks for a method to be developed to quantify soft values in consultation with local authorities. I told you, there's the Healthy Environment Guide. There are also other methods that municipalities can use. I'm gonna do my best to unlock them all. I'll do that on the website and I'll inform you about it. In that context, I do understand in itself what the authors of the motion mean. I am quite prepared to leave the judgment to the Chamber, but I would ask her to take my explanation of that earlier into account in her assessment. Developing a whole new independent method is, I think, a lot of demand and a lot of complexity, but for the best possible support in consultation with the other authorities I would like to do my best.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u328	So judge Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u329	Then I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber, indeed. The motion in part No. 25 by Smeulders and Van Gerven requests the establishment of a nationwide covering system for monitoring the quality of the landscape. At this point, the provinces really have the lead. So, briefly, for that reason, because I really think we should leave it there, I would advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u330	No. 25 is not recommended. Mr Smeulders, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u331	Of course, Mr. Chairman. To be honest, I am surprised, because precisely for the Landscape Treaty, which we have talked about a number of times now, the government is system responsible. The government must also account for the state of landscapes. The Netherlands may then say to decentralise it, but the government will eventually have to explain how the landscape is doing. That is why I think it is only logical that the state government, I think, should have a monitoring system, especially by the provinces.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u332	The current situation is that the Empire and the provinces collect information about the landscape quality. The provinces are responsible for the landscape policy and I really think that we can leave it to them to decide whether additional monitoring is needed. In the framework of the Digital System, however, we are going to ensure that all the data relating to the landscape and the Environment Act are properly disclosed, but I do not think that the request for a really new covering system is necessary, nor do I think that it is sufficient to take the lead in the provinces.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u333	Finalizing, Mr. Smeulders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u334	I really regret the Minister's answer, because we are not asking for anything additional. We are just saying that there must be a nationwide monitoring system. I can very well imagine the provinces running that. That would make sense. The only thing I'm asking the Minister under the new Environment Act is to make sure that there is. I don't think that's such a crazy question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u335	I do not think any of the questions put by Mr Smeulders are crazy. I think we might have a much less big difference of opinion on monitoring in practice than he seems to be suggesting right now. The reason for my negative advice is that I get the impression from the motion that it calls for something new, something nationwide and something provided for from the Empire, when I think we are actually doing a lot, that there is very good cooperation with the provinces and that there is no need for a new system. There is a need for monitoring, I agree with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u336	Then the motion to part No. 26.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u337	The motion in part No. 26 is Mr Ronnes'. It's about the BIT. I was just sketching the context. We know that at some point, namely at the end of this year, we will get a basic DSO. We have the lessons of Elias to which Mrs Laan referred: learning ability. We have a BIT advice, which says: small steps, testing, user-friendly. I'll interpret the motion as follows. I can imagine that, if we have that at the end of the year, we would ask for an update of the BIT that is what the motion is asking for and that we could take advantage of it again for the follow-up phase. That's how I read the motion Ronnes c.s. With that explanation, I can leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u338	Thank you. Motion in part No. 26 gets judgment room. Motion in part No. 27.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u339	The Van Gerven motion in part No. 27 is asking for a transition fund. I have just said that I have not received any signals from the municipalities that they would need such a thing. I have made good agreements with the VNG, including with regard to the distribution of costs. I'll keep an eye on it, of course, but I'll detach the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u340	Motion in part No. 27 is not recommended. Motion in part No. 28.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u341	The Van Gerven motion in part No. 28 on the inclusion in the system of shared responsibility for air quality. Of course, improving air quality is a joint responsibility of Rijk, provinces, municipalities and all involved. There is inter-administrative cooperation on air quality. It is also continued through the so-called Clean Air Agreement. That's what the Secretary of State for the Environment is doing. He'll send that to your room for the summer. The legal elaboration of such a joint responsibility would be very complex. In fact, I do not think it is in line with the principles of cooperation and trust. So I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u342	Motion in part No. 28 is not recommended. Motion in part No. 29.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u343	The Van Gerven motion in part No. 29 considers the supplemental laws and asks the government to include substantive standards and the assessment framework in the supplemental laws. I don't recommend that motion. The inclusion of standards and an assessment framework at AMvB level contributes to regulatory accessibility. This is part of the reform and improvement of the system. I think it's well done. I do not therefore need to accept Mr Van Gerven's suggestion in this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u344	Motion in part No. 29 is not recommended. Motion in part No. 30.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u345	The movement-Kops in part No. 30. I just explained to him about Article 23.3. I do not need any further clarification, as Mr Kops says in his motion. As I have just said, there is an experimental clause with a large number of safeguards in it. There is also the possibility that the Chamber interprets this through the AMvB and the front. I don't want to limit that further in advance. I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u346	Motion in part No. 30 is not recommended. Motion in part No. 31.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u347	The motion in part No. 31 looks at SMEs and their involvement. Mr Bishop is no longer here, but I have just said that SMEs are fully involved in the development of the DSO. It is precisely because of their involvement that we are also able to adjust. If this involvement of SMEs can be even better and more intensive, then I am very happy to be prepared to do so. So commitment, yes. Close involvement, yes. But a test? That's just where the border lies for me. I do not think that a test adds that much and at this stage of the process it seems undesirable to me. I would have liked to ask Mr Bishop if he would perhaps amend his motion by removing the word 'test', but since he is not there, that is a bit difficult. Unfortunately, in the current wording, I have to discourage her.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u348	The motion in part No. 31 is not recommended. I assume that the SGP staff are listening, but I see Mr Ronnes. It's not your motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u349	It's underneath, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u350	I'm a co-author of that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u351	Okay. I don't have her in front of me. Excuse me. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u352	As a co-sponsor, I would like to undertake to consult with my colleague from the SGP and to return to that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u353	Thank you very much. I had also overlooked your name for a moment, because it was in somewhat smaller letters than Mr Bishop's. Excuse me, Mr. Ronnes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u354	The motion in part No. 31 is not recommended, but the proposers will see to what extent it can be changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u355	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u356	Motion in part No. 32.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u357	The Bishop's motion in part No. 32 calls for a working group of independent experts. I have just said that we have already involved these independent experts to a large extent and that I do not see any added value in creating a working group. We've actually already done it, and that's why I'm not recommending the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u358	The motion in part No. 32 has been dissuaded. Then the motion to part No. 33.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u359	The motion in part No. Mrs Van Eijs asked for the Wabo criterion to be included in the extended procedure. I'll tell Mrs Van Eijs I'm gonna take a good look at that. The criterion is included in the Environmental Decree. I propose that I return to this with a specific proposal in the context of the preamble to the decision. So I'm making that commitment to her. I don't know if that might motivate her to do anything about the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u360	We're gonna hear it. Mrs Van Eijs, go ahead!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u361	I feel very motivated to withdraw the motion following this commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u362	Since the Van Eijs motion (No) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u363	In exchange for a promise! Mr. Chairman. Then the last motion, the motion in part no. 34, also by Mrs Van Eijs. It invites the Government to declare the standstill principle applicable. I was a little short in my answer, but the essence of my answer was: I find a principle as standstill too generic, precisely because of the diversity we know in the Environment Act. There are great differences: quality of water and air, water safety, water pollution, noise. A generic principle as a standstill fits with this great variation, but where it is required we provide for an effect of the standstill principle in the implementing rules, so there is no deterioration. So that's what you see in the water quality, for example. In the motion it is quite absolutely formulated. And since it is so absolute, I must advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u364	The motion in part No. 34 is not recommended. Mrs. Van Eijs, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u365	I hope you will allow it for a moment because I have not been able to have a full exchange of views with the Minister. I understand you're saying, where it's required, there can't be a back-up. I hope so, but it is precisely those cases where we are up there, so where there is really good water quality, where there is really good soil quality and you name it. I would like to know one way or another from the Minister how we can ensure that we do not offer enormous space to respond to that quality. I understand that this may be too generic, but I am somehow looking for more safeguards that will allow us to maintain the quality of those areas and not give us the space to undermine them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u366	I understand very well, but the dilemma is that we find a balance between protecting and exploiting. In that we want to leave room for a broad consideration. I have already mentioned Nijmegen a few times today, but there are also many other examples. On the one hand, you want to use environmental space for new activities; that can be about renewable energy production or housing. Again, if you adopt this generic principle too definitely, in my opinion you limit the space that we want to create for that broad consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u367	The motion in part No. 34 is thus discouraged. I am going to be a little stricter, I say in the direction of Mr Smeulders, because it is not your motion. So one quick question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u368	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had asked questions about this in the first term, which have not been answered. So it's useful to do it now. The Minister just indicated that it doesn't matter, because it is regulated by lower legislation. Now you say: it is a balance between protecting and exploiting. So either it doesn't matter, because it's the same arrangement, or it's a trade-off, and then it's a decline.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u369	Your point is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u370	Not quite. Mr Smeulders is quite right, however, that his question has come to an end in the answer. What I said just now in response to Mrs Van Eijs' motion is actually also an answer to the question put by Mr Smeulders. My answer is and remains: on the one hand, this Environment Act has such a wide variety of environmental values. If you were to record for all those values that you should never change anything about that, you'd really miss your goal. This, while we do apply this effect to specific aspects of implementing legislation. We do this very specifically, for example, in the case of water quality. That is why I say it can be done on parts, we also do it on important parts and it is also enshrined in the law on important parts. But if you explain it too generically, we'll cut ourselves in the fingers. Mr. Chairman. Then there are the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u371	We shall begin with the amendment to item No. 11.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u372	Yes. At the beginning I made a suggestion for the amendments which deal with the role of the city council, namely the amendments on part Nos. 11, 18 and 20. In any case, Mr Ronnes said that he was referring to his amendment to item No. 18 is gonna look. But the comment also applies to the amendments to item No. 11 and that in part No. 20, by Mr Smeulders. I would advise against the amendments in this form, but I can imagine that this would be different if they had an adapted form. In other words, Amendment No 2 is not acceptable. 11 in this form...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u373	...disadvised.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u374	That's right. Dissuade. The amendment in part No. 12 is about participation. That was the other suggestion I just made. I would just like to mention that in the direction of both proposers. In this form, too, I would like to discourage the amendment, but in another form I could imagine that I could do well with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u375	The amendment in part No. 12 is not recommended in its present form. Then there is the amendment to item No. 13.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u376	In the case of Amendment No 1, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has tabled a number of amendments. 13 is the issue of the Florence Convention. I just said something about that. I have tried to convince Mr Smeulders that it is just a legislative technique, so it does not have to be. I share his interest in protecting the landscapes. If Mr Smeulders wishes to make it explicitly reflected in the legal text, which he does with this amendment, then I would like to look with him at what would be the right place in the law to anchor the Landscape Treaty. As he put it in this amendment, I do not think it is entirely the right place. I do not recommend the amendment in this form, but I can imagine that we would agree on an amendment with another place in the law that would not be difficult from a technical point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u377	The amendment in part No. 13, tabled by Mr Smeulders, is not recommended in the present form. I see Mr Van Gerven. Also a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u378	We are now at the point of the Florence Convention. Is the amendment in part No. 19 a solution? That's about the exact same thing, but it's like a slightly different technique. I don't know if that'll help the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u379	I am afraid not, I say to Mr Van Gerven. The Van Gerven amendment to item No. 19 indeed sees that subject as well. That is the same thing; it is actually exactly the same reasoning. It doesn't have to be legal. If you'd like to do it, we need to take a good look at the right place for that. I would also say: let us not do it as Mr Van Gerven did in his amendment. But we could discuss that to see if another place and another design could be useful.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u380	The amendments to item No. 13 and 19 are not recommended in the present form. Then we come to the amendment to item No. 14.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u381	The amendment in part No. 14 see the competent authority, which is free to determine that the extended procedure is applied in the environmental permit. We have opted for a short, effective procedure. That is also, of course, the aim of the Environment Act. If an interested party objects, there must of course be a careful procedure. A free choice for the competent authority to apply the most extensive procedure unilaterally and unbiased in all cases leads to lengthy procedures and unpredictability. I don't think this is really necessary. The claused application of the extended procedure, e.g. for off-plan environmental planning activities with significant adverse effects to which several stakeholders have concerns.... that is all legal language.. would be negotiable. But in its present form, I would advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u382	The amendment in part No. 14 has been dissuaded. The amendment in part No. 15.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u383	The amendment in part No. Mr Ronnes spoke about a point which was also raised in the debate, the tightening of the wording "national interest" and "provincial interest" to "significant national interest" and "significant provincial interest." This amendment was also tabled during the examination of the Environment Act, as I found out. At least it looked a lot like it. That was rejected at the time. The Environment Act forces the provinces and the Empire to use their powers with restraint. We are based on the principle of subsidiarity, trust and the own policy area of the Empire and provinces. Adding the term "remarkably" does not change that. I would therefore not be in favour of this amendment and therefore advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u384	The amendment in part No. 15 has been dissuaded. The amendment in part No. 16.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u385	The amendment in part No. 16 is really about an important point. I hope that I have sufficiently explained why this choice was made. I also think it is very important to hold on to that fixed flat rate of 5%. There are several reasons for this. I will not repeat them all, Mr President, because you also call on me to be brief, but I think we are doing two things here. We are creating a situation of certainty from a situation of uncertainty, and we are actually converting current practice into regulation. Both of them I think are really valid arguments. Mr Ronnes may, of course, argue that he really wants to maintain at least 2%, but that does not do justice to the case law and does not reduce uncertainty. And I would very much like to get rid of that uncertainty, including for the citizens. So I really do not recommend this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u386	The amendment in part No. 16 has been dissuaded. The amendment in part No. 17.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u387	The amendment in part No. 17 by Mr Van Gerven, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the representative welfare requirement. I gave a rather detailed answer to that in the first period. I do not think it would be wise to do this, so I would advise against the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u388	The amendment in part No. 17 has been dissuaded. The amendment in part No. 18 had already been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u389	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u390	The amendment in part No. 19 was dissuaded. The amendment in part No. 20 was dissuaded. Then we come to the amendment to item No. 21. A brief question from Mr Smeulders. What amendment is this about?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u391	On the amendment to item No. 2 of the motion for a resolution (Doc. 20. That was said very quickly earlier, but in my earlier amendment, which the Minister dissuaded, she gave all the reasons that are in this amendment, literally. It states exactly what the Minister says: "in the case of an activity which has or may have significant impact on the physical environment, which is expected to have concerns from several stakeholders, and if the final question shows that the stakeholders are not or are not sufficiently involved'. These are all the legal texts I think the Minister is looking for. They are contained in this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u392	Your point is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u393	That certainly applies to some of the arguments. I particularly have difficulty with the criterion that the application shows that interested parties are not involved or are not sufficiently involved. You're gonna use that to recreate how to do it. This presupposes that it is possible to indicate when such participation is sufficient. I was just saying to Mrs Laan that this seems very difficult at percentages. It's incredibly difficult for the municipality to establish that. I'm sure that's a lot of case law, but my goal was just not to judge and leave room for customization in participation. I had just suggested that the amendments could perhaps be formulated slightly differently. The same applies to this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u394	The Minister has indicated, I say in the direction of Mr Smeulders, that he can look at the amendments to the documents. 11, 18 and 20. I am going to ask the Minister to give an opinion on amended amendments when they come. I would therefore like to leave it at that, because I believe that we have had a great deal of debate on this issue. That means that in the case of the amendment to item No. Twenty-one coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u395	Mr President, this has not been the subject of the debate. I am allowed to ask the Minister if the amendment can have Chamber judgement if "or insufficient" goes out?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u396	Well, that's the last chance. There has certainly been an opportunity in the interruption to discuss this with each other. The Minister on this last suggestion by Mr Smeulders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u397	I have the greatest difficulty with the criterion 'or insufficient'. I hear Mr Smeulders now saying that he would like to leave that out. Then I'm going to make another assessment of his amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u398	Thank you. In this capacity, therefore, the amendment is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u399	Yes, in this capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u400	Then there is the amendment to item No. 21.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u401	The amendment in part No. Mr Van Gerven's intention is that municipal advisory committees should issue opinions on all applications for an environmental permit. The law allows for advice to be requested, but whether that happens is a matter for the municipality itself. It is not for the Empire to determine whether or not a municipality asks a committee for advice when taking a decision. That is why I reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u402	The amendment in part No. 21 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u403	Mr. Chairman. As far as I am concerned, the last amendment; at least, if we agree that I am in favour of the amendment on item No. I've already had 23.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u404	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u405	I am therefore in favour of Amendment No 2. 22. That is an amendment by Mr Bishop, along with Mr Ronnes. That's about compensation in the event of a tolerance. I have already said something about this in the introduction. This leads me to reject the amendment, for exactly the same reason as the one I have just mentioned: there is no right to use compensation for the obligation to tolerate it. I move the current rules broadly to the Environmental Act. I don't see how we should do this any other way. There is no reason to give entitlement to the user fee, which is independent of damage.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u406	The amendment in part No. 22 is not recommended. The amendment in part No. 23 had already been discussed; that too is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u407	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u408	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u409	No, Mr President, that brings me to the end of my second term, as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u410	Thank you. Then we have indeed come to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-28.u411	Motions and amendments have been tabled. There have been some debates on amendments tabled. A suggestion has been made to amend a number of amendments. I would like to ask the Minister, as a result of the recess, to give an opinion on the amended amendments by letter once the amendments have been amended, so that it is clear to everyone, including those who are not involved in a proposed change. That means that we will vote on the amendments, the motions and the legislative proposal on Tuesday 5 March. That's the Tuesday after recess. Can I thank the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations very much for her presence and the handling of the questions and everything that goes with them? Of course, I would also like to thank Members of Parliament for the debate you have had with each other. Thank you to the people in the public gallery and the people who have followed the debate at home in a different way; thank you for the interest. And of course thanks to our employees, the employees of the Ministry, but certainly our support; thank you very much for your contributions to this evening.
