ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u1	This is a plenary debate on the state of the financial sector. This debate is also being held with the Minister for Finance. As the first speaker, Mr Nijboer has four minutes to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We're having a debate about ten years after Lehman Brothers went bankrupt. We have experienced a huge financial crisis throughout Europe, but also in the Netherlands, causing an unhealthy financial sector. If you look now, a lot has happened. But the PvdA has to establish that the banks are still not healthy. This can be seen on a number of points. The buffers are still too low. Each euro may be lent again 33 times by this cabinet, if the European agreements are later leading. That's a recipe for future crises. As far as the PvdA is concerned, those buffer requirements should be increased from 3% to 10%. We really are not on the right track in that. The bonus legislation has been tightened up, but you always see it: ABN with employees who participated in a participation fund, the flash merchants who hope to get an exception via the European route. You keep seeing them trying to get out of it. I call on the Minister not to admit that, and that, because of the Brexit, the European lobby will not be able to do so, so that those flash merchants will still be able to collect that bonus. As you can see, the banking sector is a bit more regulated, but there are also huge shadow banks emerging: unregulated financial flows that withdraw from supervision and involve a lot of money and probably risks. I would ask the Minister to be very specific about this. Because, of course, those flows have increased. And what is being done to get a grip on that and hold on to it? Isn't that what new derivatives dramas come from? Mr. Chairman. Then there's another point. The culture in the financial sector threatens to go back to the times of Tilmant, who threatened to leave the Netherlands if we did not meet him enough as a society. The old boys network that decides a bit with each other and knows how to proceed: we should not go back to that. What the PvdA Group really misses is that the diversity that is so confessed with the mouth is not a top man who will say: only men over 60 or over 50 will have to sit on the Supervisory Board or on the Board of Directors ten years after the crisis in practice still not find its effect in practice. They are not diverse, not background, not gender, not education and not social. I ask the Minister to press ahead, intervene and opt for a quota, so that it is enforced. It doesn't come from themselves. Who finally paid the bill for the financial crisis? That is, of course, society: the people who have become unemployed and the taxpayers who have had to fight for the banks. It's not the bankers themselves. In America, Ireland, Iceland and the United Kingdom several bankers have been put behind bars. In the Netherlands, it seems that it is better to harm society for billions than to rob someone for $100. How is that even possible? Has the Minister adequately adapted the legislation that sees it? Shouldn't it be? We have recently had the incident with ING, with which another settlement has been reached and people could not be prosecuted. Should we not tighten up legislation so that bankers and those responsible end up behind bars with such great social consequences? The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats would strongly support this. Mr. Chairman. There's a lot more to be said about it. I am happy to do so, but I have come to the end of my speaking time and I will stick to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u3	Thank you very much. There is another question for you from Mr Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u4	Mr Nijboer spoke about diversity in the sector. I think that's important, too, but I'm looking at it in a different way. There are now three commercial banks that hold about 85% of the market. That's not diverse. We don't just need more women and people with a migration background and the like in the boards of those three commercial banks. I don't think that's gonna do us much good. Don't we just need more diversity in the sector, with different types of banks, such as a public bank and a full reserve bank, instead of those three commercial banks that now dominate the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u5	I very much agree with Mr Alkaya. The Wijffels Committee has identified this as one of the key issues years ago: we are actually too dependent on those few banks in the Netherlands. I have therefore fully supported that full reserve bank. Mr Koolmees then had a bit of a lead in it, along with the SP. This proposal has always been supported by the PvdA. So I am in favour of that. I'm asking the Minister to see if he can make that possible. I'm sure others will. But, for example, the Volksbank is not allowed to go to the stock exchange as far as the PvdA is concerned. I'm crystal clear about that. You shouldn't want to, we already have enough listed companies in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u6	Good. Thank you very much, Mr. Nijboer. Mr Snels from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u7	Mr. Chairman. Early September 2008: Lehman Brothers bankrupt. Obama had yet to be elected, Balkenende was still prime minister and Mark Rutte still MP who filed a motion of censure against the cabinet in the General Reviews. And the current minister was still working at McKinsey's consulting firm. Why am I saying this? I have two observations in this debate. The first observation is that the political world has changed dramatically since then. Since the crisis we have also got Trump in the United States and the Brexit and we have completely overthrown the political French playing field, to name but a few examples. I think that says something about what has happened in society, partly in the wake of the crisis. Millions of people have lost their jobs, income or home, but above all the confidence in old institutions, in old political parties, but also in science, journalism and in the financial sector. It is an uncertainty that has increased, perhaps not even about its own socio-economic position, but about what we actually share as a society. Now look at the economy. It is again an economy of large banks, of bubbles in stock markets and on the housing market, of increasing private debt, of rising top salaries and of falling wages for ordinary workers: as if we were back in 2007. The Minister recently said that a CEO earns 171 times more than an average employee; it would be better for society if this ratio were to decrease rather than increase. It's an illustration of what I think is wrong in society. I wonder how the Minister thinks this relationship can be changed. If you don't look back ten years, but one year, we'll see the incidents. Whether it's top salaries or money laundering, they're deeply concerned about the lack of awareness that financial institutions have a broader social role than just complying with laws and regulations. And that it is not just about markets, about shareholders, about profit making and about a lot of money, but about responsibility for society. The downside of decreased confidence is that we are making more and more detailed laws and regulations for the financial sector. Less confidence, more rules, with ultimately also the question of whether that is effective. How does the Minister view this statement? Mr. Chairman. My second observation is that we are still talking about measures arising from the previous crisis: the banking union, the European deposit guarantee scheme, the doom loop between banks and governments, the buffers. It's all not finished yet, but it's also all focused on the old crisis. But what about the new risks? If we do not tackle the climate crisis effectively, we run major financial and economic risks, including in the financial sector, says De Nederlandsche Bank. There is still a lot of capital in the fossil industry, banks, insurers and pension funds. That should be written off sometime. Does the Minister have any idea how big these climate risks are? Or take the risks of new technology. We are becoming more vulnerable to cyber attacks, especially in an uncertain world where power relations with Russia and China have changed. Are we even prepared for that? Technology gives new opportunities, a lot of innovation. We see that in our big banks. At the same time, however, new relationships will arise when large tech companies become more and more involved in financial services. What new risks does this entail? Are we getting a good look at that? Finally, Mr President. Shouldn't the most important lesson today be to look not only at the mistakes of the past, but above all at the developments of the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u8	Thank you, Mr. Quick. We are now going to listen to Mr Alkaya's contribution from the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u9	Mr. Chairman. When after the crisis financial institutions also got into trouble in the Netherlands, neoliberal parties stood up to support their system. Those who always want to leave the market alone when the money comes in suddenly came up with far-reaching government intervention: state guarantees, capital injections and even nationalisations. Billions of taxpayers' money has been used to keep the banks up and running. At the same time, around 50 billion savings have been made on society by the Rutte Cabinets since the crisis. Houses of care have closed, the rents have become priceless, the basic grant has been abolished and so I can continue. So the crisis has revealed that the banks can count on the government but not society. Was this fair, I ask this minister. How does he look back on this austerity policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u10	I happen to know that class 5 vwo of the Melanchthon is sitting here in the public gallery and I would like to give it a lesson in history. Who was in power in the Netherlands then? Were those the neoliberal parties? Was the VVD in the government in 2008-2009?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u11	It came to power pretty soon after that in 2010. In the end, the effects of the crisis only became apparent and the consequences for the Netherlands only came to the surface from 2010. The VVD was at the basis of how it was handled. The banks have been saved and society has been dropped.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u12	Then I would have liked to have noticed for that class 5 vwo and for the stenogram that the VVD was not in power at the time. Although it supported the recapitalisation, it was a cabinet with a PvdA minister to the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u13	That's right. I was also talking about neoliberal parties, where the VVD is one of them. I think it was a VVD man, Frits Bolkestein, who said that nowadays everyone thinks liberal, except the SP. This policy can also be reflected in this. But it has really been the VVD that has been at the root of all these cuts. 50 billion savings have been made on society. Never washed a good crisis, they say in English. This has been well understood by the VVD, because they have used the crisis to implement their policies and to cut back on society and government.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u14	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u15	Mr. Chairman. Ten years later, the jubilee is in good shape again. The banks are making billions of profits again, which mainly benefit the shareholders. And if banks and multinationals are doing well, the Netherlands is doing well, as some seem to think. But how different is that in practice, where prices are rising and wages are lagging behind. The music is on again and they dance cheerfully again, as if nothing has happened. People look back at the crisis and say that so much has changed. But there is no one in the Netherlands who really believes them. No one really believes them at all, because the fundamental problems in the banking system have not been addressed or have hardly been tackled. The committee led by former MP Jan de Wit advocated protecting our savings for speculation by the banks. That didn't happen. The same committee advocated curbing shareholders who demand too high returns. That didn't happen. Although there have been good steps taken with Basel III, the capital requirements for banks are still far too low. They're being lowered even further. I would ask the Minister if the cabinet is still aware of the lessons learned from the previous crisis. Will he finally work on the implementation of the unanimously adopted recommendations of the De Wit Committee? However, the remuneration policy law financial companies has been adopted, but is it true that this law will not apply to the many stock exchange platforms and trading houses that come to the Netherlands because of the Brexit? Mr. Chairman. Unlike Rutte I, II and III, the SP advocates a fairer financial system with smaller commercial banks and a secure public bank as an alternative. At the moment, three large commercial banks dominate the entire sector. Among other things, the WRR has come up with strong criticism of this situation, like many professors of the Sustainable Finance Lab and the thousands of people behind the foundation Ons Geld. Many warn, like the SP, of the next economic crisis, which is always around the corner in capitalism. We're still not ready for that. When can the Chamber expect the cabinet response to my own initiative paper for a public bank and on the WRR report? We must avoid that, in the event of a subsequent crisis, we are dependent on only three commercial banks, which we must maintain with taxpayers' money at all costs. Report after report has been presented in recent years. See there on my desk only a selection of them. Motion after motion has been adopted, but fundamental changes, such as a deposit bank, splitting banks, shielding savings from speculation, have not been made. When point came to square one, successive cabinets didn't go through. So I ask the Minister: do the alternatives that we are proposing here really matter? Is he willing to have a fundamental conversation, or is he, like his predecessors, ultimately too afraid to tackle the banks, which makes this Chamber and the Tower more and more like just side tables of the Zuidas in Amsterdam? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u16	Thank you, Mr. Alkaya. The next speaker was Mr Ronnes of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is more than ten years after the fall of Lehman Brothers, the start of the financial crisis. Today we are debating the state of play in the financial sector. If we're gonna look at how things are going now, we're gonna have to see what it was like. The crisis began with poor financial products, especially mortgages on the housing market. When it was economically uncomfortable, the house of cards collapsed. Credit ratings from renowned agencies turned out to be worthless. Buffers from banks were way too low. To save ordinary people's savings, banks in the Netherlands were saved with tens of billions. Worldwide, this happened with hundreds of billions. After the credit crisis, there was an economic crisis, with high unemployment and mega-loss savings. So it's not so crazy that people were angry or even angry and are at the financial sector. Has anything really changed more than ten years after the financial crisis? What happened? Maybe we should ask the question: what didn't happen? You sometimes get the feeling that the bankers who are responsible for the crisis just got away with it. Bonuses are just back on the old level, especially in the US. Winnings are sky high. We know the scandals in the Netherlands about salary increases and the money laundering scandal at ING. Let us also not forget the mess around interest rate derivatives in SMEs and usury policies in the insurance world. Does the Minister share the observation that it sometimes seems that the banking world is just business as usual again, that little seems to have changed? Still, we shouldn't just be gloomy. Buffers have indeed increased. In Europe, we have been given the Banking Union, with European supervision. Bonuses are maximized, in the Netherlands even at 20%. We look forward to the discussion on the opposition law on the even stricter remuneration rules and the legal measures announced by the Minister. But we're not there yet. We realize that we're not going back to the time your bank was sitting around the corner, the boring but reliable partner in your money business, and in which you added your savings book and the savings box to the bank's savings. The world has grown and technological changes will continue for a while. In that light, it's not surprising that people have a bad image of bankers. You're barely gonna find one in real life, except in the news, in a new scandal. Much is standardized and goes well if you belong to a standard profile, but if your situation is different, then you are at the mercy of the funder's randomness and goodwill. In that light, our appeal to the banks is: be of service to society again, show that you are of added value, be rooted in the local or regional economy. Sober, faithful and reliable are not bad, but must be the goal. It's okay if that's at the expense of profit. I prefer 1% more reliable, safe and less risk than 1% more profit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u18	This fits with the CDA: an apple on the benches.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u19	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u20	But it doesn't really fit very well with your introduction. You say that the weather is becoming business as usual and that things are not going well in that financial sector. I think we need really tough government measures. I have proposed a number of them, including higher buffers. This coalition goes on the European tour, which lowers buffer requirements. Should we not make much tougher demands on this, including diversity and behaviour? Shouldn't we just intervene with legislation there for once? 'Cause we can't stay with an apple, can we?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u21	Many rules have also been introduced in recent years, and we do not always see that regulation is the solution. Certainly from our role, therefore, it remains a task to make that appeal to the banking sector in order to improve policy. As far as those buffers are concerned, you will return to them in cash as if we wanted to adjust the buffers downwards, but that is not the case. You know very well that the percentage was a target before we adjusted the percentages. It must also be said that the buffers are far beyond these limits by stacking reserves. So I would like to say that the policy is now aimed at bringing the buffers down. It's the opposite: the buffers are going up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u22	The previous cabinet said that Europe may want 3%, but we set it at 4%. I supported that as a PvdA as a step towards 10%. It's got to go even further up. This cabinet has said: no, it is a European banking market; we are in line with European regulation and we are maintaining that 3%. And 3% is less than 4%. I think that is a bad development, because I think 4% is still too low.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u23	Again, 4% was a target. In addition, we can have whole discussions here about 3% or 4%, but the targets are already higher, looking at the accumulation of measures that require banks to keep buffers. You are calling for these buffers to be created, and I agree with you that we all benefit from strong banks with a strong position, but we should not pretend that the policy that is now being pursued leads to the buffers going down. No, in practice you can see that the buffers have really increased and that that line is continued here and there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u24	A very good morning, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u25	Yes, a very good morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u26	'Cause that's a good start. I was just watching, and I heard Mr. Ronnes keep the story about the moral apple. What does Mr Ronnes expect the banks to do with that apple?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u27	I expect banks to have an eye for what's going on in society. As far as we do not have that, it is up to us to do so on the one hand with legislation, which has already been done in many areas and which we will soon be discussing again. Looking at the proposals announced in the Minister's letter, that is something we are still discussing here. But I do not think we should stop making the moral appeal on those banks that they are also watching for the individual and for society in this changing world of automation and globalisation and that people are being helped in a way that does justice to the position of customers in banks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u28	We are here today because we have experienced the biggest crisis since the 1930s in the last 10 years, after 2008. As far as I am concerned, this was due to some sort of lethal cocktail of greed, poor supervision and cooperation between rating agencies and banks. This has caused eight million people to lose their homes in America, seven million people to lose their jobs, and we in the Netherlands have suffered the consequences of this many years later. I knew people who wanted to move, but couldn't because their house was underwater. I therefore believe that we need very clear measures, good policies and good legislation. When I look at this, such a global crisis, and I hear the anointing words of the CDA here, I think: the banks hear this. They laugh a bit and think: we know that story.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u29	Finally, Mr. Ronnes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u30	What am I supposed to do with this? It is not a question, but a comment, but it does provoke a comment. When we look back and we look at the mortgage world, we see that the LTV is maxed out at 100%. Then we see that there is an obligation to repay annuity. This ensures a more stable system and a stronger starting position for the property owner. So measures have been taken in this area, but we are far from there. We will also have to look at other parts together where we can put our finger on the sore spot. If regulation is needed, then regulation, but on the other hand, that moral appeal is certainly so important for the solution and contribution to a good financial system and a good banking sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u31	I note that the abbreviation "LTV" stands for "loan to value." Of course, the spokesmen know that, but others may not. I now give the floor to Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u32	All the examples Mr Ronnes just mentioned came from the government. That's what made him do that. It has said: mortgages are too high, so we have to pay annuity, the debts on the houses are too high. Those are rules. They didn't come because of a weak call, but because of hard intervention. If you find that the sector is not yet healthy, and you are right, I agree with you, then you should also say B and intervene hard in these areas. It's not gonna happen on its own, is it? We've learned that by now, haven't we? ING proposed last year to increase the top man's reward by 1 million while no one understood that, not even on the right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u33	Mr Nijboer still believes in a makeable world and that rules put society back in a position where everything functions as optimal and ideal as possible. It's not that. We will also have to continue to do that moral appeal to society to take it up ourselves. We must do the same in relation to the banking sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u34	Mr. Van Raan of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u35	Perhaps Mr Ronnes would like to mention a few examples of steps three, two, one, he himself may choose those banks who have made themselves without rules coming from outside. What have the banks themselves done after the moral apple in the past? Just give me a few examples of what a bank has done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u36	Let me give you a good example. We have had the introduction of the PSD II Act. We are not very wide in the Chamber very happy with the way in which that regulation has been put in place in Europe and what was ultimately the result of it. We have asked the banks to make it clear to clients where an external party has said yes or no to making data available. You can now see that banks are working on functionalities to provide that insight to customers. That's not an obligation for a bank. They don't have to do that. That is because we have asked the banks here, in this Chamber, to give customers that insight as tight and as accurate as possible. We're working on that right now. I have seen the first examples. Of course, we can all mention very small examples, but this is what I mean. Make it easy for that customer, make it clear to the customer, make the risks clear, see where choices can be made for the financial future. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u37	It is indeed a good thing that Mr Ronnes mentions this example, but these are, of course, examples of measures taken by banks to reduce the risks they face.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u38	Well...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u39	These are not measures of this kind which are partly aimed at protecting their own markets. Again, this is an example but of course not the example you are looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u40	Basel rules have explicitly taken steps and made demands on the holding of capital to cover risks. That is a second example. That's what you asked for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u41	I have here the report Towards a sustainable financial sector in my hands. It is a 2012 report from the Scientific Institute of the CDA. The CDA states, inter alia, that the utility and savings activities covered by the deposit guarantee scheme of banks should be separated from the speculative business activities. Now we're seven years away. Does the CDA still hope that banks will do so on their own, without legislation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u42	This is a discussion that will take place when we discuss the Money and Debt report. On the explicit statement whether you should do this with legislation or by addressing banks and making choices, I say how should I interpret that correctly? That it is not always necessary to do so with regulation, but that it can be done. We are not throwing that away; that is not the case. The Volksbank was mentioned here, for example. Between whether you let the Volksbank operate as a kind of state bank or put the Volksbank into the market under a number of conditions: there are a lot of nuances in that. And that's what we need to talk about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u43	The CDA asks a bird to cut off their own wings. Almost free, at 0.03% interest rate, attract deposits......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That's why those two things have to be separate. It's too crazy to keep thinking the banks are going to do that on their own, isn't it? When are we really gonna take steps?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u44	As has already been said, we will be discussing this very comprehensively shortly, when the report on Money and Debt is discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u45	I would just like to think about that moral appeal and to join in the debate during the interruption that preceded it. You could say that you can indeed convert such a moral apple through the Volksbank into a kind of Postbank, which we used to have. There people got simple products that they just understood. No complicated stuff: derivatives, CDOs, synthetics. No, people got there, brought their money and knew it was safe. You had a savings account there, too. That was all clear. On that market this also served as a kind of soil to keep others' prices sharp. Because they knew that people would go to the Postbank if they offered different rates. And now the owner of it has killed that bank, because that was difficult. You're getting excited, Mr. Ronnes?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u46	Yes, very enthusiastic! 'Cause actually this is...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u47	The enthusiasm is so catchy that he puts away that moral apple at least for a while. Is it to be discussed with the CDA to work out such a proposal and to turn that moral apple into a real physical bank that just has these products and thus keeps the others, as it were, sharp?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u48	I'm not gonna rule all that out. You are actually inviting me to continue with my speech, because the next rule is: We also ask the Minister to ensure that the Dutch banking landscape remains diverse. "Various" means that you have an offer from a kind of utility bank and from more commercial banks. But the question is still: should that be a state bank or is that a bank that develops on the market and in which you really only see that utility function? Those are questions we need to talk about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u49	Mr. Azarkan, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u50	Unlike Mr Ronnes, I haven't been in politics for very long, but I think this is really lame. You're actually saying this. "Mr. Azarkan, you ask if the Chamber can enforce that the minister who converts Volksbank to such a utility bank. But, Mr. Azarkan, I have a very nice line and I call on the Minister to make sure that the banks are diverse." No one here understands that. Even havo 5 and vwo 5 don't understand that. Be concrete! Be clear! What do you want yourself to do now to convert that moral apple, which I am also in favour of, into a genuinely present, physical bank that does what you intend to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u51	A diverse banking landscape. And that doesn't necessarily have to be a state bank.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u52	Mr. Chairman. The moral apple, that really appeals to me. Does Mr Ronnes agree with the Animal Party that we should perhaps make a moral appeal to banks, but that we should have the moral discussion about what banks should be, especially here in the Chamber, if we are going to think about how we would like to do it? So that moral discussion belongs here, too, in this room?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u53	That is right, and that is why we are holding this debate together. I fully agree with Mr Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u54	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u55	As I said, Mr President, we also ask the Minister to ensure that the Dutch banking landscape remains diverse, and that people who want to take more risks can take that; and vice versa: that people who want to be boring and risk free can do that. How does the Minister see the WRR's call in the money system report, namely that there should be at least one boring bank that only saves and pays? What role does the Minister see here for the Volksbank? I'm rounding up. The CDA supports the Minister in his goal of achieving a more serviceable financial sector. We call on the Minister to continue to advocate, at European level, stable buffers, lower bonuses, safer products and a stronger banking union. The CDA is concerned about providers of financial products located in countries such as Cyprus and Malta. The supervision is really less there than in the Netherlands, but their products can simply be offered here. And that goes wrong, that's how we see it. Is the Minister prepared to address this problem at European level and to see if the national regulator can gain more power to keep out of the Dutch door malicious suppliers of products? That was my first term, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u56	Thank you, Mr. Ronnes. Then we are going to listen to Mr Van der Linde of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u57	Mr. Chairman. We do not, of course, call that a'moral apple' in the VVD, but I do not know if the line will be very different. That credit crisis of a little less than ten years ago has drawn deep clues in our country. We all remember that oppressive feeling: uncertainty about everything, your home, your job, your mortgage; not knowing if your savings are still safe. Or worse, you put your money out at an Icelandic bank. Lead-heavy years, and we had to use billions to shove those crooked couches. Everywhere was cut back. Dutch people have felt that, but we have come on top as a country, and we can be proud of that with all the Dutch. It was clear that we could not continue with our banks and insurers in this way. Ordinary Dutch people were saddled with incomprehensible profit triplers and investment mortgages. And in the meantime, top people got very excited: one threatened to leave the Netherlands, and the other put himself in the window, let himself be merryly chopped up by three foreign banks and left the stage with a golden handshake that will make you laughing behind the geraniums for the rest of your life. And when it went wrong, of course, there was no money to take the hit. I am referring to this because in 2008, 2009 and 2010 there was every reason for serious action. Basel II, Basel III and Basel IV to increase capital requirements. Solvency I and II for insurers. Stress tests and extra surveillance. From bail-out to bail-in, so the taxpayer doesn't stand at the bar when things go wrong. The strictest bonus law in Europe. And then, of course, fitness tests for bankers and supervisors. We have a ban on incomprehensible products and overdrafting. I could go on for a while, but we've done a lot. And those are big steps. But the question now is: are we now prepared for the next ten years? In ten years, we will have Google Pay, Apple Pay, Alibaba and other tech giants from America and China. And of course they work with free products. Well, "free"... If a product is free, then you are probably the product yourself. Our trusted Dutch banks can only survive if they distinguish themselves with personal attention to ordinary customers. If you ever call your bank, you just want to get someone on the phone to think about it. And as a small entrepreneur, you want to have an account manager who knows your business, who looks through numbers. And if you're a customer at a bank for 40 years, like a lot of pensioners, you want a little customization if you need it. And, above all, you want to be able to rely blindly on your couch. That's exactly why last year's VVD was so toxic because it was messing with the big banks. That little confidence they've built up since the credit crisis was smashed into the ground with one stone. There's no way to look away from crime. The VVD sees as no other how much we need the banks in the coming years: for sustainability, for custom mortgages and as lubrication oil for the whole economy. But that only works if ordinary Dutch people fully trust their banks, and feel that those banks are also ready for them; also for my vegetable farmer, and also for the lady of 62 with a WIA benefit who needs a mortgage. Mr. Chairman. We do not achieve that customer orientation, at least not necessarily, with even more financial abracadabra and even more rules, but it has to come from the banks themselves. There is no magic formula to restore trust, but it starts with personal services. The VVD wants a banking sector that you can rely on, and that thinks about and participates in the future of the Netherlands. Banks without frills. This is the only way our banks will exist in ten years' time and they won't be swallowed up by those tech giants. And only if banks stand next to the Dutch instead of facing them can they face the future, with all these challenges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u58	There is a question from Mr Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u59	Mr Van der Linde says that the banks are at that point in time, but the whole system is, of course, stuttered. But I understand what Mr Van der Linde means. That is why I am curious: how, according to the VVD, have the banks become ten years later? Are they commercial institutions which, if they do not perform well, should be able to go bankrupt under control? Or have it become some kind of semi-public institutions that make billions of profits, but really shouldn't fall over?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u60	I would like to go to banks that behave like utilities, and not as semi-public institutions, because they just aren't. But as utilities, it's just a solid product. A little boring maybe, but they just do what people need. That's what I see before me. And I think we all share that banks aren't there yet. And I think that what happened last year, and what we still have a hard time about, is an illustration of the long way to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u61	Doesn't it belong to a utility not to make billions of profits and not to demand yield requirements of tens of percent, or at least in the double figures when we look at the shareholders? Is it not part of a utility company to demand a bit more boring returns when it delivers boring products and services?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u62	That's where a utility company doesn't do anything crazy, so the risk-efficiency profile is different.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u63	I got a little confused, because I just had a motion on efficiency requirements, and then the VVD said: well, but such efficiency requirements... While my proposal was: yield, but do it moderately, appropriate to a utility. And now the VVD is making a plea for banks like utilities. I have a simple question. Is the VVD therefore in favour of separating utility and business banking? 'Cause I think that's part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u64	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u65	The confusion gets bigger by the minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u66	It's not that complicated. I told Mr Nijboer in the previous debate that you cannot steer on return. You can't say to a bank: you can't make a return and you can't make a profit. Then what are you doing? Then they're gonna put the money somewhere else and they're gonna work inefficient. So that doesn't make any sense, does it? And especially for ABN AMRO, I said that money has to be returned sometime.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u67	Finally, Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u68	If you have more equity and have bigger buffers, the shareholders get less money on average at the same profit. It's as simple as that. So you have a low return, but you can steer that very well, because there are more risks for society if you don't. I have another question, because I am trying to achieve something in the debate. I have already said something about the criminal prosecution of bankers, namely that this is hardly happening in the Netherlands, while it is happening abroad. The VVD has said something about it before. Is it possible to work together to tighten up legislation there, so that people who behave badly in the financial sector will also be put in jail in the future? Does the VVD support that proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u69	That cooperation can certainly be sought with us by Mr Nijboer. We called that very loudly last year when we had this on our hands with that big settlement. I tabled an amendment together with the SP at the time to double the penalties for money laundering. When it comes to catching bad guys, because that's what Mr Nijboer is talking about, he's got a good one on the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u70	Then we come up with proposals on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u71	I saw that Mr Van der Linde, in one of his interrupting debates with a colleague, I will never use the diminutive word, because I always think it is full-fledged debates, at least stressed that the VVD was not in the government between 2008 and 2010. I am curious to see how, while we are looking back at ten years of financial crisis, he is looking at the measures taken by that cabinet, which was not in the VVD, until 2010.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u72	I said that I admired the PvdA Minister who was there and who was responsible for the nationalisation of ABN AMRO. He had to be as simple as that, so we supported those measures. What Mr Azarkan has just been trying to do was put all sorts of neoliberal acts on our hands, which I have said...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u73	You're confusing us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u74	Yes. Excuse me. Anyway, all sorts of neoliberal acts were put on the table for me, but I couldn't have had them on my conscience at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u75	Mr. Van der Linde, don't deviate now. Firstly, it was another colleague, who immediately felt addressed. I understand we're a little bit alike, although his beard is a lot prettier than mine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u76	You can do something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u77	But I do stand for what I say. So I was curious. In fact, Mr Van der Linde says that he admires Mr Dijsselbloem for what he has done, but he does distance himself from it. That's special to me. But I'm just looking at the lessons we can learn from this. Many economists have indicated that the severe savings package of 52 billion has exacerbated the crisis and has had a very negative impact on the economy for two or three years. Does Mr Van der Linde share that view?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u78	The answer is very simple: no. You can see that, too. We all had to put on the belt here. Every Dutchman has noticed that. It's been a really tough couple of years. Then you see growth rates that are far beyond other European countries that have not intervened. So, yeah, we did good. If I may finish the history lesson of earlier, of course I was not referring to Minister Dijsselbloem, but to Wouter Bos.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u79	You spoke of Dijsselbloem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u80	No, I was talking about Wouter Bos.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u81	Fine. For the books, it's about Wouter Bos. Excuse me. Mr Van der Linde greatly admired Wouter Bos, so much so that he wanted to distance himself from the fact that he was not in the cabinet. Can Mr Van der Linde explain to me how economic growth can be achieved by cutting back? I've never done that before. In 2014, 150 economists were asked what was the biggest threat to our economy. In the first place they had standing: the cabinet of that time. Reducement does not lead to economic growth. Can Mr Van der Linde explain to me how that works at the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u82	These economists have been so wrong. It was so necessary for us to get our housekeeping books in order. We had a euro crisis, with great distrust in all governments. There was some kind of institutional crisis in Europe. The Netherlands was the first to have its housekeeping book in order. We have achieved such economic growth. Yeah, it's been tough on people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u83	This is where there really is a diffuse story. What's the VVD stand for? She distances herself from something, but then backs it up again. She supports something she did or didn't do... It is really a very complicated story, but the fact is that the VVD has been at the heart of the policy from 2010 to now. And that has been austerity policy, over 50 billion. Mr Azarkan just referred to it. I wonder whether Mr Van der Linde is taking a little distance from that or whether he is still in favour of it. Is he saying that the 52 billion in cuts, which have led to the disappearance of so many public services, I still support them, they are in my account?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u84	What I tried to explain earlier is that the VVD was not in the government between 2008 and 2010, at the height of the crisis. I can imagine the SP had the idea that it was, but I think I've put that right properly. Then, of course, we also supported government policy at the time, because these interventions were simply necessary. Yeah, you can find that very complicated, but that's how it happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u85	And then you've cut 52 billion in six years. Then we come to that, because the Central Planning Bureau has calculated that 35 billion in economic growth has come to us. We missed that. That's over €2,000 per Dutchman. So not €1,000 in addition, as the VVD promised, but €2,000 off of missing economic growth, because of that policy. Do you also distance yourself from it, or do you still support it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u86	Now there is a cheerful potpourri of the macroeconomic figures. As a result of the economic crisis, we have suffered a dent in our national product, but that dent was not causally linked to the reversals. Apart from that, the billions that are now blowing my brains out, of course not only austerity, but also reversals, and in important areas, I would like to mention: health care has never been cut back, but only spent more.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u87	A question to Mr Van der Linde. Does Mr Van der Linde believe that the current state of the banks, with the buffers as they are, is sufficient to cope with a next crisis? Think of Italy. Or does the state have to jump back in? So based on the knowledge he has now, is it sufficient at this time in his opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u88	That is a good question from Mr Van Raan. Look, if everyone takes all their money off the bank, you got a problem. But we have done everything we can in recent years to ensure that these banks are solid. So a crisis like the one that occurred ten years ago couldn't happen right now. Then Mr Nijboer always says: 'every euro is lent 33 times', or something like that. No, of course the story is as follows. I bring a euro to the bank and that bank may lend a portion of that euro back to you, but a little bit has to be left behind, and that is what we call the buffer. That buffer is not 3%, as Mr Nijboer says. This is currently at ING's office, and we are only talking about own funds: 14.5% and the Rabo 15.5%. In addition, the capital of bond holders may be used. So before the state gets its turn... However, you yourself have been there in recent years when we have taken all these measures. I think what we have now is pretty much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u89	Clear answer, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u90	We have all these stress tests for that, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u91	Mr Azarkan. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u92	I heard Mr van der Linde say that these reversals did not lead to this economic squeeze at the time. I really heard him say that. But in the education I've had in the basic economy, I've learned that the economy consists of consumer spending, public spending and business investment. If savings are made because people have to pay more - something the VVD did on balance - in recent years - and if then companies have less - because they are involved, albeit too little; as far as we are concerned, they could have contributed a little more - then there is less to spend. So the coherence between the VVD's policy and slowing down the economy is evident, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u93	Mr Azarkan is actually advocating the Keynesian approach: the economy is in bad shape, so we are throwing in a lot of public money and then things will get better. I just heard the expression "never washed a good crisis" coming by. We've taken the right measures. We've come out stronger. We've taken structural measures. That's where the big profit comes in. Of course, our economy went down the drain in 2009, 2010 and the few years after that. But that had everything to do with the banking crisis. There is a causal link here that is not there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u94	Finally, Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u95	My question really was about something else. I understand that Mr Van der Linde takes this into account and is proud of these measures, whereas almost all economists will disagree with him. I do not think the problem was the government balance or sustainability either. That wasn't the problem. I agree with you that the measures and the fact that we have made a great deal of savings have ultimately led to a good housekeeping booklet. But that wasn't the problem. My question to you, I say through you, Mr President, is about the fact that you say that there is no causal link between the fact that you are making cuts, allowing people to spend less, and the fact that the economy is not growing. I think there is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u96	Mr. Van der Linde, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u97	Mr Azarkan referred to a CPB report. I'd like to see that. But I don't think the causal link has ever been established by the CPB.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u98	Then we move on to the next speaker, and that is Mr Sneller from the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u99	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "Human nature is a threat to financial stability." That quote by former ECB President Jean Claude Trichet stayed with me most from the documentary The eighth day, about the start of the financial crisis. Too much focus on short-term gains, too little control, too low buffers and too high risks, which ultimately took the fall for society. The De Wit Committee identified many causes and therefore many solutions. Ten years later, the question is: did we waste a good crisis? Or: have we done enough? Mr President, ten years after the crisis. The Little Orchestra would sing: a lot has been achieved at that time. A European regulator for the largest banks, much stricter bonus rules and higher buffer requirements. But we still do not have strong European supervision over all financial service providers. In the Netherlands we are still too dependent on banks. Well, from three banks. In fact, from the same three banks as before the crisis. Banks have also become more and more alike, with all the risks involved. DNB summarized the assignment as far as I am concerned: less concentration, more diversity. My question to the Minister is: does he still see this as an urgent task? His urgent assignment? The CPB warns us that the biggest risks to our financial stability are currently coming from abroad. That is why close European cooperation is crucial, to complete the Banking Union, to clean up balance sheets, to uncover banks and governments and to reduce risks by sharing them. But we must ensure that we do not prevent the previous crisis and are blind to the causes of the next crisis. We have, of course, talked about money laundering and integrity. That is a clear point of approach. But the financial world has also changed considerably since the outbreak of the crisis, with new opportunities and new challenges and problems. Fintech's shaking the market. How do we make progress while ensuring financial stability? How do we ensure that supervisors are well prepared and equipped? Non-banking service providers, sometimes called shadow banks, are not subject to the same transparency and safety requirements as banks. My question is this: do we have sufficient visibility and supervision of the risks in these companies? Climate and sustainability also increased as a risk to the financial system. Banks must take responsibility for this and take advantage of the opportunities that lie ahead, as partners in sustainability, but also by offering greater openness. When people put their money in a savings account, they have the right to know whether a bank invests in polluting industry or renewable energy. This transparency is urgently needed. This must be communicated intelligibly, correctly and faithfully, as the accountants would say, and accountable to us. Is the Minister prepared to agree to this with the sector, so that customers are actively informed about the climate impact of their account or financial product? So it's a "sustainable package leaflet," you might say. Mr. Chairman. With Trichet, I think we should be realistic about the nature and variability of human nature. All the more important is our rules and institutions to set up thresholds to protect against the shadows and excesses of them. Let us therefore do without acute reason what is necessary to prevent our successors from having to look back with a debate about ten years after the crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u100	A question from Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u101	Mr President, as you can see, I am trying to achieve something today. In recent years, together with D66, I have fought very hard for higher buffers and also hard buffers; not the risk-weighted calculations that do not apply a company, but just equity against the balance sheet. Does Mr Sneller agree with me that this should be much higher than the 3% that has now been agreed at European level, and should be towards 6% or perhaps 10%?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u102	I agree with others who say that the buffers have become much higher and that this has been agreed at European level. Mr Nijboer has previously asked several people whether it is possible to make that all entrance within Europe as the Netherlands without undermining the banking union. From DNB to the Minister have said: no, that is not possible. Then I choose to maintain these agreements at European level. Especially in view of what I just said about the warnings from the Central Planning Bureau, I think it is right to do this properly throughout Europe, so that we are less vulnerable to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u103	This is really a very wrong argument. Surely you cannot say: we are keeping our own banks unhealthy, because the European banks are all unhealthy too, and then we should be able to do so in the Netherlands. The financial sector in the Netherlands is huge, much larger than in Germany or France or in other countries. That's what we've seen: the impact was enormous. Surely we can say: we make higher buffer requirements? In fact, that was the previous cabinet. D66, Mr Koolmees, was always on the hunt with me for the European countries to do so, but also for us to keep ahead of ourselves. Now you are saying something quite different, with a reasoning that is really inimitable: everyone does not do what is sensible, and we have to go after it. That's unprecedented, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u104	Mr Nijboer is selective in what the previous cabinet did. Those were not demands; it was a sort of informal arrangement, which is now being hard-written. In addition, it is selective when it comes to whether the buffers are increased. They'll be raised. I think he is doing very little about all the agreements that have been made at European level. And he is failing De Nederlandsche Bank, who told us in the hearing: those buffers remain much higher, and we think they are adequate. Mr Nijboer shopped rather selectively. If the President of De Nederlandsche Bank A says and he likes it, he says: the Minister must do the same. If the President of De Nederlandsche Bank B says and he disagrees with him, he falls off without appointing it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u105	Finally, Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u106	Look, I'm a politician and I don't always agree with De Nederlandsche Bank. I don't always agree with the CPB either. They can't, because sometimes they give very different advice. So I have a political judgment. My political judgement is crystal clear: I believe that the banking sector should have higher buffers and be less at risk. So if De Nederlandsche Bank points that out, I'll put it to the Minister. If DNB says that the buffers are sufficient for the risks now, you can walk behind them, but you can also say, as I say: since we have such bad experiences, we have to build even higher buffers, otherwise things will go wrong again. I do not agree with DNB in this respect, but I do not think it is an obligation for a Member of Parliament to be a Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u107	It is certainly not an obligation, but it is in itself interesting to put the regulator's perspective on how the sector is now regulated. But I think we've always fought together. The Minister also said in the debate on the banking package that he is committed to higher buffers at European level. And the buffers are getting much higher, so I think we just totally agree in that respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u108	Thank you very much, Mr. Faster. We will move on to the next speaker, and that is Mr Van Dijck of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u109	Thank you, Mr President. As a nestor of the Finance Committee, I think I was the only Member of Parliament at that time. In fact, I was in 2006. What's reflected on here, I've been able to see all of it up close. So I will speak a little from my personal experience. That's always good. Mr. Chairman. It is ten years after the fall of Lehman, or the start of a global financial crisis. It was a battle, both in financial markets and in economics. Billions of economic growth were lost. In the Netherlands alone, 50 billion in economic growth evaporated. People lost their jobs, companies went bankrupt and financial institutions had to be saved with billions of taxpayers' money. Mr. Chairman. Never again. Banks promised to get better. They said "mea culpa" and the financial sector needed to become safer. Banks had to keep higher buffers, supervision was strengthened and a bonus ceiling was introduced. Bankers promised to be more careful, there was a banker's oath and the customer interest would come first again: the duty of care. You'd think after all these years and after all this shit, banks would have learned their lesson. But nothing could be further from the truth. After the Lehman affair, we had the Libor affair, the usury policy affair, the SME derivatives affair and, of course, recently the money laundering frauds of ING and Rabo. Mr. Chairman. In banking country the weather is business as usual; others said that as well. The billions are bouncing against the plinths again. ING made a profit of 5 billion last year, despite the fine of 775 million, which they paid in cash at once. Rabobank: 3 billion profits. ABN AMRO: nearly 2.5 billion profits. Three Dutch banks together achieved a net profit of 10 billion last year. That is not their money; that is citizens' money. They're taking away $10 billion from the economy. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. The returns also show double digits. In 2017, the banks achieved 12.7% return. Klaas Knot warned for a reason. The banks want to earn far too much again and let their ears hang far too much on the shareholders, with all the risks that this entails. There's too much risk being taken again. Mr. Chairman. Also the mega-salaries have been all the way back. Before the crisis, a Jan Hommen made 2 million from ING. Tilmant made 3 million. And so Ralph Hammers thought: so can I. And he got a $1 million bonus on top of his $2 million salary. He was going to make $3 million in total. Thanks to the social fuss and the fuss here in the Chamber, we have been able to stop that. But how thick is that shelf for the bankers' head? Mr. Chairman. Banks are still too big to fail, ten years after the crisis. Why are the banks still not split up into smaller parts so that they can go bankrupt in a business bank and a utility bank, as the Chamber has asked many times per motion? What happens to this, I ask the Minister. Mr. Chairman. The idea was also that taxpayers would never have to pay for a failing bank again. The investors had to bleed: the bail-in. We have seen in Italy what that means. The Italian government didn't know how fast it had to jump in when banks got into trouble. It's not bail-in, it's just ordinary state aid. But we cannot say that, because that is what the European Commission decides. But we all know. In the banking union, too, large pots of money are being put in place to support the banks. There is a European resolution fund of 60 billion and a European deposit guarantee fund of 38 billion. And if that's not enough, banks can still borrow from the 500 billion emergency fund. The Dutch banks now guarantee the southern European zombie banks. Mr. Chairman. This is Russian roulette. Citizens will eventually be billed, and those citizens are taxpayers. I can go on for a while, but I'll finish. The question is today: are we ready for another crisis? I'm afraid that's what I'm afraid of, because the banks are still in bad shape. For example, there are still billions of bad loans on the balance sheet. Many countries' sovereign debt is higher than ever. The ECB's balance sheet has now doubled to 4.5 trillion, interest rates are still 0% and the ECB's buy-back programme has not yet been completed or a new low-cost bank financing plan with TLTROs is being discussed. It's waiting for another crisis. The PVV has therefore long argued in favour of a popular bank: simply a national savings bank, a bank for the ordinary man and woman, where the money is safe and where weir profits are not made. This should be a counterweight to the commercial boys on the Zuidas. In 2016 there was a majority in this house, at least for the proposal to investigate it. My question to the Minister is therefore what is the situation with regard to the investigation and whether the Volksbank will become a regular national savings bank.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u110	Thank you. I call Mr Van Raan of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u111	Thank you, Mr President. A debate on the state of the financial sector, ten years after the start of the financial crisis, cannot be without the basic observation that the financial system was not created by natural laws, forces of nature or a divine being. No, we're talking about a fully human-created system. A human-made system can also be changed by humans, even if the system is as log as a supertanker. We will also have to deal with this, as they will be redundant within 15 years. It is good to realise that the history of the crisis is also exposed to the adage that conquerors write history. In general, the crisis was caused by greedy American bankers and almost killed us, sensible Europeans. Mr President, that is a myth. I'll wait, because I can see the Minister has to deal with his lunches. There's a lot of greedy bankers, that's for sure. But what caused the real crisis, of course, is the human-created globally connected, deregulated, financial system. American and European banks took huge risks in the run-up to the big crash. After the fall of Lehman Brothers, even the banks didn't trust each other anymore. Then the financial system suddenly came to a standstill. What characteristics can we attribute to a human-created system? In other words, what lessons can we learn? A lesson must be that the system as such has no morality. Nor does the market have any morals. He therefore needs a strong market master. Those are not words from us, but Mark Rutte spoke out as MP in 2010. The first question is whether the Minister agrees with the argument that the market has no morals and needs a strong market leader. Draghi, another greatness, called the monetary expansion politically neutral and pumped so 2600 billion into "yes," in what actually? New bubbles. There is no longer any question of a market master, at most financial oilmen. What's that all about? Those are banks that with one hand squeeze out Dutch farmers and with the other hand finance mega puffy chicken factories in Ukraine. It is banks that do not hesitate to invest in deforestation of the Amazon, banks that invest in the palm oil industry, which have been shown to have disastrous consequences. They are banks that once again facilitate criminals, because they have not stopped money laundering enough. For example, the financial system is actually better described as an army of predators who allow their capital to search globally for the highest return, whether it remains within the limits of the planet or not. I see the Minister's getting a little less attention. He's turning a little away from what's being said. Whether the ordinary people who work at such a bank lose their jobs or not, it doesn't matter that much. And change of the system begins with recognition that the current system has become part of the problem. The question is whether new systems like fintech are the solution right away. We have said it before: in fact banks, financial institutions, cannot cope with the wealth of their position. They must do something that others do not like: they must create money and, thanks to deregulation, let that money flash around. There are actually no reasons to believe that fintech is going to do that differently, but that it will probably be faster, more anonymous and even more unregulated. Mr President, concluding. The Sustainable Finance Lab report on the crisis rightly says: no financial institution should be too big to fail, and the sector should not be too complex to fail. Ask the Minister: can he now reassure us as guardian of the financial system and say that the systems are indeed no longer too big to fail and not too complex to fail? Mr President, concluding. The market has no morals. We are debating money creation in the Chamber, and the moral debate is part of that. Discussion of the current financial sector therefore also begins, as far as we are concerned, with exposing what the financial sector is and the moral political debate on what it should be. The question is: does the Minister agree? Then we can start that discussion. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u112	Mr Van Raan said that financial flows do not attract much from borders. I agree with him. My question is: is he in favour of taking that up at European level, so that we can also monitor it and let the strict market master supervise the financial flows to ensure that morale does have a place there?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u113	We could agree that the moral aspect should be the starting point. In this context, I very much liked the fact that Mr Sneller quoted Mr Trichet that human nature is the greatest danger to the financial system. That's a fantastic summary of what's wrong. If that is the case and there is a human nature that is a danger, then of course you have to set up the system in such a way that the best in human nature comes out instead of the worst. Now to the answer to the question: yes, European cooperation is very important. You probably know the Animal Party as eurocritical, but we are in favour of European cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u114	I do not really know the Animal Party except as Eurocritical. My question is, then, what exactly does European cooperation mean? Does he agree, for example, with the De Wit Committee's recommendation to move towards a stronger European regulator?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u115	As far as the transfer of powers is concerned, without proper democratic control, we are not in favour of it; so is Mr Sneller. We are incredibly in favour of having bigger bank buffers. That's where the little debate was about where our own powers and sovereignty allow it. But as long as it is about the transfer of sovereignty without proper democratic control, we are not in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u116	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u117	I do not know exactly what that good democratic control is in Mr Van Raan's booklet, but it concerns, for example, the Financial Markets Authority and its counterparts in other European countries that have to supervise the big big-tech and fintech companies and simply cannot handle it in other countries. That could also be organised at European level, so that we can monitor it properly, precisely on the basis of those democratic values.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u118	Once again, I think that I am repeatedly losing out. European cooperation is fine. Transfer of powers? That's not what we said a priori.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u119	We will then be ready for the last speaker in the first term of the Chamber and that is Mr Azarkan van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u120	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When the cat's away, the mice dance. That's what you had to think about when the crisis broke out in October 2008. Millions of people in the United States lost their homes, millions of people lost their homes and the economy went down worldwide. Banks went down and the biggest crisis since the 1930s broke out. The cause: a deadly cocktail of greed, insufficient supervision and no sense of integrity. Banks and evaluators, such as Standard & Poor's, Moody's and Fitch, worked together to deceive the public. I don't hear a lot about these desks, but they stuck a little sticker with "okay" on those very toxic products that banks invented. To put it technically, the subprime mortgages were wrongly passed over the world as sound financial products. When people figured that out, it collapsed. The consequences for the Netherlands: ABN AMRO, ING and the SNS Bank had to be helped; tens of billions of euros in taxpayers' money to remedy the reckless greed of bankers. Then the banks came up with their own code of conduct. It was based on the premise that the customer would now be placed at the centre. I hear that a lot of parties and a lot of companies say when things go bad. If things go well, I'll never hear them say that. Ten years later, I see that little has come of this. Under great pressure from society, some improvements are announced now and then, but if the attention to the banks falls away, then they fall back into their old behavior, because if the cat is away from home, the mice dance. Last year we had Mr. Hammers of ING, who has already been mentioned a few times. At ING they felt that the salary was too low: 2 million; another million had to be added. The Chamber and also the Minister behaved like the cat and those mice stopped dancing. Mr. Chairman. This is an illustration of the banking sector. That's not good. In the letter of 17 December, I read that the banks are opposed to new plans by this minister. They don't really want a legal obligation to answer for their reward. They also do not want an obligation when it comes to holding shares they receive as part of their remuneration and recovering part of the fixed remuneration in the case of State aid, also known as "clawback'. They also do not want to be accountable for the deviation from the bonus ceiling if it is only possible in exceptions. Mr. Chairman. What, according to the DENK Group, are the good points of improvement? The points raised by the Minister in his letter are excellent points, but those banks are countering this with a secret lobby. At that point, the banking sector is really hard learner, because when the cat is away from home, the mouse starts dancing again. As far as we are concerned, the financial cat, our Minister Hoekstra, is allowed to bite on for once, because the question remains how the recalcitrant banking sector can be permanently connected to the general interest, other than through an apple and promises, which I have seen a few times. You might want to think about obliging large system banks to have a government commissioner installed. This has been the practice of ING and ABN AMRO for years. Another possibility is to lay ground in that market with a public bank; this has also been suggested a few times. In this way, the other banks are disciplined to deliver good quality at reasonable prices. Otherwise, customers walk to the public bank; a public bank as a kind of backstop. "Backstop" is a terrible term, but it has to be. The Postbank used to have this function. That is where basic payment products could be found for a reasonable price, a reasonable price, as I have just said. Other private banks could not deviate too much from this, because then they would price themselves out of the market. But yes, the Postbank was expertly destroyed by ING Bank in 2019. It was too hard. Mr President, I will conclude. In any case, the financial sector must be kept under constant review. That's the conclusion after ten years. It's like a vase that can break very easily. It's what Uncle French said when I had my first job there as a 14-year-old boy in Lekzicht. I asked him why he always kept so much watch over those waiters with that money. He said, "Trust is good; control is better. Trust and control are there to keep honest people honest."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u121	Let me start by saying that I welcome the support of DENK for a public bank with basic facilities. I myself submitted an own-initiative paper to that effect, and I also asked when we could expect a response. In any case, I am pleased with that, but you will then be left with the influence of shareholders at commercial banks. I wonder to what extent DENK really is an anti-capitalist party. The minister is called upon and the supervisory authorities are called upon, but the problem is not in the far too high return requirements of shareholders, which means that these bankers have to almost pursue so much return, because their breadcrumbs expect them to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u122	Can Mr Alkaya formulate the question in such a way that I understand it a little faster and better?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u123	Does DENK also find the role of shareholders within commercial banks and the high returns that shareholders demand from commercial banks problematic? Does that have to be dealt with as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u124	I thought it was going this way. I am of the opinion and the DENK Group with me, and we are with a few people, and I am making it a third part of it that we have seen in the Netherlands that a number of institutions, including the banks, have far too much power in terms of return thinking, and thus the shareholder. I agree with the SP. We would like to see much more balance and better representation of the staff. It must therefore not only be about the importance of as much profit as possible, but also about sustainability and the importance of employees. We believe that this is going in the wrong direction for a number of institutions and also for banks. You can't report every year that you make 2 or 3 billion profits and sometimes 4 or 5 billion, and then when things go bad, you fall back on the government. We think that's weird, too. We then say very simply: you can think about creating much broader and larger assets so that if things go wrong, it does not have to be the taxpayer; let it be the shareholders. You can also say that the moment we all help a bank, dividends will only be paid once everything is repaid: not a penny earlier. You can think about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u125	I am asking because this was one of the problems in the run-up to the previous crisis. The De Wit Committee has also proposed, for example, that shareholders should be rewarded who are loyal and who do not focus on the short term but on the long term. That didn't happen. Several parties have today appealed to the individuals, to the banker himself. Greed is called, human traits, a poisonous cocktail and you name it. We have talked extensively about the moral appeal of the CDA. But in the end, it's the circumstances that make man. A man has goodness and evil in him. So we also need to address the system and thus address the fact that shareholders want to make as much profit as possible in a short period of time and therefore want to draw as much return from the real economy as possible through these banks. I am glad to see that DENK is on the right side of the battle.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u126	Finally, Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u127	We are not opposed to making profits, nor are we opposed to people making good returns, but we are in favour of balancing them. I believe that this was at the heart of what I said today, namely that we must keep the banks in the dark because otherwise it will go in the wrong direction and we will be back with another crisis in ten years' time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u128	Thank you, Mr. Azarkan. That brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u129	I shall suspend the sitting until 1.10 p.m. We shall then first have an swearing-in of a new Member of Parliament and the organisation of work. Then we will listen to the Minister's reply.
