ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u1	The next item is the debate on the crisis situation in Venezuela and its consequences for the Downwind Islands, Curaçao, Aruba and Bonaire. Before we begin the debate, I should like to welcome the Presidents of the States of Aruba and the States of Curaçao, Mr Thijsen and Mr Millerson. I would also like to welcome the Member States of Aruba, Mrs Christiaans and Mr Tjon, Mr Sneek, Mr Candelaria and Mr Croes, the Registrar of the States of Aruba, Mr Hek, and the authorised Minister of Curaçao, Mr Beginninga. Welcome! And, of course, I would also like to welcome the Secretary of State for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. I give the floor to Mrs Diertens as the first speaker on behalf of D66. Speaking time is four minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u2	I also speak for the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u3	Okay, but that doesn't count for double speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u4	But you're a little flexible, aren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u5	Yeah, that's good: a little smooth.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u6	Mr. Chairman. First of all, on behalf of the D66 Group, a 'bon bini turhende', a warm welcome to the representatives of the islands in the Chamber. I also speak today on behalf of the PvdA. Mrs Kuik will be joining us later in this debate. We are discussing a serious problem which has been going on for years, but which is growing and growing today: the collapse of the Maduro regime, the misery of the Venezuelan economy, the influx of refugees from Venezuela and its consequences for the islands. As far as my group is concerned, it is right that we should speak in this House about these problems in the Caribbean part of our Kingdom. Mr. Chairman. Already in February 2017, D66 asked Parliament questions about the increase in Venezuelan refugees. At the time, the minister did not expect a massive flow of migrants. Unfortunately, the opposite turned out to be true. Of course, the countries themselves are responsible for their own care, but where we can help them as the Netherlands, that is self-evident for D66. This does not always have to be done in euros or in dollars; the exchange of knowledge and experience is also essential, because the reception of refugees in the islands is not enough. Will the Secretary of State indicate how the islands are being helped to organise adequate and humane refugee reception, including with regard to Article 3 of the ECHR? What role does the Netherlands see for itself if the flow of refugees continues to increase? And to what extent does this involve European cooperation with other Member States in the Caribbean? I am thinking, for example, of France, as economic refugees from the French part of Saint Martin come to the Dutch part. How does the Secretary of State indicate this? Mr. Chairman. Then there's the asylum procedure on the islands. Last summer, at the request of D66, support from the Netherlands was finally established in the development of procedures in Aruba and Curaçao. Can the Secretary of State indicate the state of aid with the asylum procedure on the islands? Has this continued since last November's visit of the islands to the Netherlands? Given the increase in Venezuelan refugees, does the Secretary of State see any reason to strengthen the assistance? Mr. Chairman. Last summer, the islands had to deal with a border blockade by Venezuela. The Chamber has often called on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to do so, and in the end it was resolved. Now I have reports that Venezuela's border with the islands is once again closed, with disastrous consequences for the economy. For example, there is no more crude oil for the refinery on Curaçao. Can the Secretary of State indicate if there is indeed another border blockade? And if so, is the government prepared to discuss this with Venezuela again and demand an end to the blockade? What can the Secretary of State do to help the refinery, and to prevent enormous unemployment in Curaçao in case it falls over? Then the coastguard of the Caribbean part of the Kingdom. They too have to deal with migratory flows from Venezuela as a result of increasing human trafficking. Can the Secretary of State state state if it's true that the Coast Guard has been scaled up for this? To what extent is the Coast Guard equipped in terms of people and resources to combat human trafficking in addition to drug trafficking? Finally, Mr President. Of course, Aruba, Saint Martin and Curaçao are autonomous countries and have their own responsibility, but that we have a duty to help is obvious to D66. This applies to all countries in our Kingdom. We are a kingdom together, and the crisis in our greatest neighbour concerns us all. I hope the Secretary of State shares that with us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u7	Of course we're in one kingdom. So we need to make arrangements and see how we can handle business. I also heard Mrs Diertens speak about the refinery. This poses problems both on Aruba and on Curaçao. But that's a choice of countries, isn't it? What choices have the governments, the States, made with regard to the future of their countries, and certainly with regard to that refinery? That's their choice, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u8	That is certainly their choice, but it is clear that the conditions in Venezuela have caused the refinery problems with the supply of oil. I understand that there are many other problems, but I do think that we can help each other as countries in the Kingdom, also in the process around the refinery. This can be done in advice, but that responsibility remains with the islands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u9	I'm gonna have to interrupt you, because I hear a phone. Whose phone is this? Everyone's quiet. Phones really need to be turned off.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u10	That's right, Mr. Chairman. I am somewhat surprised by the answer from D66, because I thought that party would go more towards sustainability, towards choices for the future of Aruba and Curaçao. Then you may wonder whether the future of a refinery is still contributing to the economic future of those islands. So that's the question. I found it special that D66 is very committed to the fossil part, while it is mainly the choices of Aruba and Curaçao. They therefore opt for fossil and receive the support of D66. I don't quite understand. Or am I wrong about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u11	That's not true, either. D66 is of course for renewable energy, but it is now a fact that there are problems with the supply of oil. That includes Bonaire. We need to see how we can solve the situation as it is today. You know, like me, that there is another option behind the philosophy of governments, such as a green park in Curaçao, with a view to sustainable energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u12	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u13	I think Mrs. Diertens means GreenTown. That's been going on for years. It is about fundamental choices by both Aruba and Curaçao to get rid of these problematic refineries. Those are their choices. Then we can say that we have to help them with that choice, because they are stuck with those refineries, but from the Valero refinery I have been saying for years that this is a dead end and from the Isla refinery we have been saying for years that this is a dead end. But those countries continue to opt for those refineries. What help should Mrs Diertens think we should provide?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u14	I have read documents saying that they do not opt for refineries in the long term and that they also want renewable energy. But you know, like me, that it is not settled in one day and that they can use a little help in developing these plans to eventually find a lasting solution to the situation with the refineries.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u15	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raak on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u16	In Venezuela, our largest neighbour, there is a humanitarian disaster, because President Maduro is pushing his own people over the edge of the abyss. What's happening there is terrible. There are now also mass refugees coming to Aruba, Curaçao and Bonaire. At the moment when countries in the Kingdom are in trouble, the SP is always willing to help. That's what we saw after Hurricane Irma. When Sint-Maarten, Saba and Statia broke down, the Netherlands, with the support of the SP, gave a lot of help. It pains me to say that that has also led to a lot of hassle, fighting and frustration. The first discussions on aid to Aruba and Curaçao were not promising. That was in January, during the IPKO, the consultation with parliamentarians. There was the tone that the Netherlands is not good, has never been good and will never be good and that everything we do is wrong. There was even a parliamentarians in Curaçao who said: fly in the planes, you can pick up all the Venezuelans. I don't like the way you work together. I understand that has gotten much better in the meantime. I also understand that there have been official requests from Aruba and Curaçao, but I have not seen them. I'm sorry to hear that. I did ask about it. Maybe the Secretary of State can give it to me. I would very much like to know what official requests for aid have been made from Aruba and Curaçao, what concrete aid has been requested and what assistance has been provided. What help has the Secretary of State provided, what help is needed and what help is not provided? I would like to see these requests from Aruba and Curaçao, perhaps even before the second deadline. I would very much like to offer help, but we also need to be able to face reality honestly. Few refugees on Aruba and Curaçao are already very much for such a small island. It has far-reaching consequences for education and health care, a disruptive effect. But in the past, a lot of migrant workers have been deliberately brought to the islands by companies who thought: those workers are cheap. That's why island children, young people on the island, didn't come to work. We have also seen politicians turn a blind eye or even have been convicted of corruption in prison because of permits, work permits. I would very much like the aid we have to give to be related to improvements: to fight corruption and also to ensure that reception is improved. On Aruba and Curaçao, I say this with pain in the heart, how women and children are locked up there, and that is degrading. One of the problems we have is that we don't know who's a refugee and who's a migrant worker. That's not under review at the moment. I also understand that people are still being sent back so far. Even today, now that we have this debate, I have heard that people are being sent back; people we do not know are refugees, people we do not know are at risk in Venezuela. Is that right? And can we do something in that area, can we do something? I would very much like to know from the Secretary of State what has been asked, what help the islands need and what help we can give, but also what conditions are attached to it. Can we also add a condition that, despite the limited resources available to people and money, the islands do their best to at least check who comes in and ensure that people are received decently, humanely and humanely? Those were the questions I had with the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u17	My question to Mr Van Raak is how critical he is of Venezuela's regime, which is only squeezing and leaving his own people behind. We can always point to our islands, but they are now dealing with a regime that is not right. To what extent can you say anything about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u18	That's what I started. If Mrs Diertens is not listening, then I have no need to discuss this. Read it in the Acts. I have spoken very strongly. Otherwise you can ask Mr Bosman, even very fiercely.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u19	I now give the floor to Mrs Özütok on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Also a warm welcome to the representatives of the countries. It is a chaos in Venezuela and this is noticeable in the Latin American and Caribbean region. In the meantime, some 3.4 million Venezuelans have fled political instability, the lack of basic necessities and injustice in their country. They end up in Columbia, Peru and also in parts of our own kingdom, downwinds and upper winds. Curaçao is 80 kilometers away from Venezuela, in clear weather you can see Venezuela. But the crossing by boat is very dangerous. It is estimated that 8,000 to 15,000 Venezuelan refugees have sought a good return to Curaçao in the last five years. Most of them stay illegally in Curaçao, where there are no proper procedures and reception conditions. It condemns them to a fearful existence in which forced return and exploitation threaten. I see Mr. Bosman, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u21	You just started and I thought: she's in the middle of a sentence!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u22	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u23	I hear Mr Bosman saying that he has a factual question. I'm curious.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u24	Quite factually, because Mrs Özütok talks about 8,000 to 15,000 refugees in the last five years. Where did that number come from?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u25	I've got that from all kinds of data.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u26	Otherwise, you'll come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u27	I'll come back to that later...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u28	In second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u29	...if that's okay, Mr. Bosman. I did not expect to have to deal with a technical question now, because this is a political problem. I didn't make those numbers up myself, but I'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u30	If you use numbers, I assume you know where they come from. That's a very simple question. I don't know that number, especially in the last five years. I do not know that combination of 8,000 to 15,000 refugees in the last five years and I am very curious where it comes from.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u31	Please continue, Mrs Özütok.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u32	Mr. Chairman. For the people on Curaçao itself, uncertainty is also increasing. Crime is increasing, with the closed borders with Venezuela stagnating the supply of fresh fruit and vegetables, and the cost of living and poverty are increasing further. In the meantime, infectious diseases such as polio and measles, which everyone thought had been successfully eradicated, are also lurking. To the extent of disaster, the inhabitants of Curaçao feel unsafe because of the threat of war and many Curaçao people wonder if the Netherlands can guarantee their safety. On Curaçao there is currently a logistics hub. Can the Secretary of State tell us what their status is? The first goods arrived at the beginning of April. Whose goods arrived there? What goods are still expected? How are these goods seen by Maduro? Is that American? And how are the efforts to actually offer the goods of this hub to help? Who's coordinating this hub? The various diplomatic efforts of the Netherlands are part of the crisis approach. The Foreign Affairs Council on 8 April discussed a technical mission to Venezuela at the end of April. Can the Secretary of State brief us on this? What would be the meaning of this technical mission? Will the Netherlands take part in this? The Kingdom has to do with a large increase in refugees. Even if it is in another part of the world, the Netherlands should not run away from the responsibilities. We would have liked to have prepared ourselves for an increase in refugees to our Kingdom. Now we are debating the consequences of the crisis for and in the Kingdom. My question is: how have we reacted so far? And how are we going to react to prevent degrading circumstances? In the words of this government: how is the reception of Venezuelan refugees in the region facilitated our Kingdom? It is good that Curaçao and Aruba have requested support for asylum procedures. Would the Secretary of State like to explain the status of the assistance of the Netherlands? Would the Secretary of State also specifically address asylum, health care and the efforts of our defence personnel, which are saving lives there? Do we have enough capacity to pick up drones from the sea? Can the UN Refugee Organisation, for example, play a role in these asylum procedures? To what extent do asylum procedures currently meet international standards? Can the Secretary of State rule out the possibility of automatic detention and/or expulsion? How many Venezuelans have been recognised as refugees in the Kingdom? Mr. Chairman. I'll come to a conclusion. In such extraordinary situations, countries should be able to fall back on the Kingdom. As the most effective and expert country, the Netherlands should offer help and support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u33	Thank you. A brief question from Mr Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u34	A great deal is being asked of this Secretary of State. It is a lot of factual information, about the expulsion, about care and about all those things more that apply to Curaçao and Aruba. Does Mrs Özütok think that the Dutch Government is responsible for what is happening in Aruba and Curaçao?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u35	I have made it clear that the question is where the aid question lies and that we need to look carefully at how far we can provide aid and support there. So that's actually my argument. The question of what Curaçao itself can, of course, has to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u36	Then I'll translate it very briefly. Mrs Özütok says: The Netherlands is not responsible for what is happening in Aruba and Bonaire.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u37	The Netherlands is responsible for providing help. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u38	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u39	Where is this responsibility in the Statute?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u40	You are now entering into a debate on the Statute. There is a demand for help from a country that falls within our Kingdom. Then it seems very clear to me that we are going to talk about this situation rather than about the Statute and about definitions of what is or is not mentioned in it. For me, that's not a subject. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State what he can do to support Curaçao so that we can find a humane solution to this problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u41	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Dam on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A lot has already been said. I can repeat what concerns there, but in recent days all kinds of people from St.Maarten, Aruba and Curaçao have been visiting. I think the central concern that concerns them is: what happens when the bomb bursts? What happens if there is a civil war in Venezuela and huge numbers of people drift? Most people will probably go to neighbouring countries where you don't have to go over water, but what happens if a wave of refugees, economically or otherwise, arrive at the islands? That is the concern that exists on the islands, and there we can take on board everything, such as the interpretation of the Statute, the financial situation, the guarantee function and all of it. In the view of the CDA, the primary responsibility for this lies with the governments of the islands. But we're family. I've said that before. I feel familiarly related to this, although it is a matter of state law with those who live in those parts of our Kingdom of the Netherlands. Article 36 of the Statute does not contain a word of French. It says that we are assisting each other at times, but the initiative lies with those governments, in this case the governments of Aruba and Curaçao. That question will then be answered in the Netherlands. I have noticed that a lot has already happened in this area, but the big question for me is: what are the scale plans? Can the Secretary of State say anything about that? He doesn't have to put it down in detail. I don't like to talk endlessly about "what if" and "in case" because you can spend hours doing that. But is there any provision for that? Did he talk about this recently when he was visiting the islands? Can the governments of the islands, of Aruba and Curaçao in particular, even if such a bomb bursts, use Article 36? And what role does the EU play in this? How can we get support from that? Mr. Chairman. There are, of course, short-term concerns, for example about the Coast Guard. Questions have already been asked about that. Is the Coast Guard sufficiently equipped? You can also ask questions about the efforts of our Foreign Minister to lift the travel restrictions currently in force. No one can go back to Venezuela. Of course, it is important that people who really need asylum should not be returned, but I would not find it as strange as governments to have the opportunity to return the people who are acting criminally on Aruba or Curaçao. That is very much in foreign policy. I'm free to put that question to the Secretary of State. Another point which, of course, we would also like to draw attention to is the asylum procedure. I must honestly say that until recently I thought they had no asylum procedure in Curaçao and they are not covered by the Refugee Convention, and in Aruba they do. What a difference, I thought. But then I read again what Professor Ernst Hirsch Ballin, among others, recently said about this in the Upper Chamber. For all parts of our country, Article 3 of the ECHR, the ban on sending people back to countries where it is unsafe. I would like to know from the Secretary of State to what extent that element is also guaranteed. I see help is being offered. That's where the help is focused, isn't it? Is it aimed at developing a procedure that meets that condition? I'm not sure you have to say right away: boys, that should be arranged on the night of Monday on Tuesday, bam! No, we have to go in there with each other. And I'd like to see it. Finally, Mr President. I do share the point made by Mr Van Raak. He says: I don't know the letters that were sent today at all. In the meantime, in the most devious way, I have received them, thanks to all the Members of Parliament who visit them. But that still feels a little uncomfortable, and it is also a little vague what our cabinet is doing. So I was wondering if it would not be possible to send a letter on occasion in which the questions and what our answer, as the Netherlands, would be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u43	Thank you, Mr. Van Dam. I now give the floor to Mr Bosman on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There's a lot to worry about. As Mr Van Dam said, we have spoken with the colleagues from Aruba, Curaçao and also from Saint Martin, because there are problems there too. The concerns are clear; they have been there for a long time. Mrs. Diertens talked about 2017; well, as a VVD, we have been pressing this concern since 2015. 'Cause we see it coming. We all saw it coming. For example, we discussed a visa at that time: could we introduce a visa? I have read the documents, and in them the Foreign Minister, Mr Koenders, said that Aruba did not need them. Aruba did not need a visa and wanted to solve it in a different way. That is fine, but these are choices that the countries themselves make. We discussed this in the 2015 IPKO. I said I'm worried about the influx of refugees. The Curaçao delegation did not think it was a Dutch matter. It is a matter of country, they said; whether Mr Bosman did not want to interfere. Fine, but then it is also a matter of country and then those are choices of countries; then you have to get to work with them. The Statute is also clear. The Statute indicates where the responsibilities lie and how they are invested. I do think that, if there is a problem, we should talk about the Statute. Because that is where we see the problem: who is responsible for what? Those are sliding panels becoming. One minute we say "it's a matter of country, so stay out of it." And then when it gets very difficult, suddenly it's a kingdom mission, and we actually think it's a job of the Netherlands. These are sliding panels, which I would like to raise. I would like to talk about that, and I would even very much like to have a change in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u45	I have a question for Mr Bosman. I also heard from his interruptions that he talks a lot about the role, and who is now responsible for what, and so on. I have not been in this procedure for very long; I now have the idea, from the contacts I have, that there is a real awareness on the islands that they themselves are first at the bar. And I can still hear you having these discussions. Don't you have that idea? Is that different? From my point of view, I have the feeling you're looking at it too negative.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u46	Maybe that's cynicism after nine years of negotiation, but I still don't see much movement. I still see little responsibility being taken. I still see little movement, for example in an electronic control system, or in a visa, or in all those things that countries could actually regulate even more themselves. Is there a registration system yet? That question will soon be answered in my text. What's the status of the Labour Inspectorate? Because there's a discussion about the cheap labour that comes in. I say test it, monitor it, check it, don't take it. Suppose someone from a company says, "I employ cheap Venezuelans." You'll be punished, you'll get a fine or you'll go to jail. Things like that aren't enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u47	I'm glad to hear that Mr. Bosman will be giving that list in a moment. Now he mentions some things, but I think it also has to do with mentality, commitment and that sort of thing, regardless of that list. And I might want to warn him, indeed, that you should be careful not to get too cynical in this sort of thing based on your past. Perhaps I am speaking more about myself here than about him, but I would like to invite him to come to that positive position.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u48	I am always positive, especially about the islands of Aruba, Curaçao and St. Maarten. But I do have some critical comments on the drivers. Because if you look at choices you have to make with regard to financial soundness, the position would have been very different. If we had nine years of good governance of the finances, the finances would have looked very different, from both Curaçao and Aruba, and from Saint Martin's. We'd really have had different footage. There too we see no improvement; there too you see no steps to improve it structurally. So that also leads to a problem. So as a country, like Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten, you have little room to move.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u49	Mr Bosman outlines a situation in the past in which he has already expressed his concerns and the countries have said: that is our responsibility; we want to do so at some point. You would like to refer to the Statute. But there is now a concrete request for support and assistance. What is Mr Bosman going to do about it? Are you going to remain in the reproach of the past, or are you going to help the countries of the Caribbean in our Kingdom to actually support them? Because I don't understand anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u50	It's very simple. The text I am about to say says: 'We are going to help, of course, with a request for support'. That's what we've always said. If there is a request for aid, of course there will be help, but I will make certain conditions. What do the countries themselves do? It didn't just give rise to slanting things, see what happens and then say, "Oh, it's a problem of the Kingdom." Let me repeat the example of our great friend, Minister of Justice De Weever van Sint-Maarten, who says: if the problem becomes big enough, it is of course a problem for the Kingdom. That kind of thing is not acceptable. I make that very clear by saying: of course I am willing to help, but what are you doing yourself? I would like to make it clear what the countries themselves are doing. I'm about to ask the Secretary of State. In fact, I'm not asking the Secretary of State, because he can't say anything about it, but I'm actually looking a little at the people on the left and I'm saying, what are you doing about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u51	They cannot participate in the debate, so I would limit it to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u52	Help that is conditional is very unclear. I think it would be better to ask what help we can provide and to give the Secretary of State the opportunity to answer those questions himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u53	It's in my line.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u54	My question to Mr Bosma...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u55	Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u56	Bosman. I always do it wrong. Sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u57	I'll fix it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u58	I'm used to it from you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u59	It's supposed to be like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u60	I think the request to introduce a visa is a matter of national importance. A request has already been made to the Minister in February 2018.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u61	In 2018?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u62	Yes, in February 2018. There are even special teams dedicated to this task. Where do you get your factual information that this would not happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u63	In 2015, we proposed this to Minister Koenders, the then Foreign Minister. He also spoke to Aruba at the time. From the Aruba side, it has been expressly stated not to do so. Aruba's request was: don't do it. The most convenient countries there are Aruba and Curaçao. Then you say as the Netherlands: okay, then we don't. This was done at the request of Aruba itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u64	But after 2015, steps have also been taken. Steps were taken in February 2018. It's being discussed. There are requests. In that sense, I think we still need an update from you. Where do you get your actual information?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u65	The other day, I've been with.. what do you call it? President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). They're working on something in the shape of an ESTA. I'm okay with that, too, but then settle it. So I'm getting my actual information from the people of the island itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u66	We are now in debate with our Secretary of State to ask how the information gets on your way from the Netherlands. I also have information from pieces from the Netherlands, and apparently there is a request and there are also opportunities to have a labour inspection and a visa requirement. They're working on it. Then why do you always refer to 2015 when all kinds of steps have been taken in the meantime? That's what I'm surprised about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u67	I would like to see Mrs Diertens' pieces, because apparently she has different information than I do. We have recently spoken to a number of people, including Aruba, who made it very clear that the Labour Inspectorate was not yet active there. That's literally what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u68	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u69	If there is a request for support, I say: of course. We're a big country. We are part of the Kingdom. There is no vertical responsibility; let us make that clear again. It's a horizontal, joint and equal relationship. Based on that premise, we're in the Royal. Of course it's frustrating. We've had a lot of discussions about that. We've had regular discussions about that. It's sanding. It's pulling. It's pushing. Then how do you come up with solutions? That is frustrating, because, as Mr Van Raak said, and everyone here in fact, if we want to give support, we must do so. It just has to lead to a solution. When we're working on sticking and cutting and doing something piece by piece to alleviate the biggest need, we don't tackle it structurally. I am really convinced that there is enormous potential on Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten, but as a driver you have to make the right choices. Then as a driver, you must set up your country in such a way that there is an economic future, that there is a perspective. If you're going to bet on a refinery, that's fine with me. That's their choice. But don't tell me that refinery's on the verge of collapse and it's not gonna work. The whole world says "we're going off fossil" and you're going to bet on that refinery anyway. It's possible. Those are the choices of the countries. But don't bother me with the fact that you're not gonna make it in an economic system and you're not gonna be able to diversify. That's the point. I want to help them heartily. In fact, every time help is offered with the refineries. I'm worried about the Curaçao refinery again, where they're looking at the Chinese for help. The whole world is concerned about Chinese input anywhere, with all facets of what China is doing, and Curaçao is just going to take another step towards China.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u70	I also have far from the experience of Mr Bosman on this dossier. I also have great respect for the experience and knowledge he has. However, I do have difficulty linking the administrative discussion you are actually having about the Statute and the way we are implementing it with the help of people. We are now facing a crisis in Venezuela. You agree. Then we'll have to stand by each other. You agree. But then you link it to an administrative crisis or an administrative discussion. I find that difficult. How do you see that? We'd better pick that up at a later date, wouldn't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u71	That is interesting, because I believe that the Christian Union has also agreed to help Saint Martin, and I believe that all kinds of conditions were in place, with the World Bank and everything else, including border control and the Integrity Chamber. That's what the Christian Union was for. Or is that different now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u72	The question was asked the other way round to Mr Bosman, but well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u73	I am glad you noticed that, Mr President. I agree with you. Of course not. I will also mention in my speech in a moment that conditions may indeed be laid down. But the basic attitude is the help, the help to people. I think it's important to radiate that with each other, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u74	Yes. I'll repeat it again. If there is a request for support, we will give it of course. That's what I said. Of course! But not just without it being a solution to the whole problem. For that we certainly need to talk to Aruba and Curaçao. Because what are the plans for the future? How are you gonna make it? Of course I'm worried. I can't say, but I've been worried since 2015. We see it coming. That's the problem. You see it coming, and in the end the problem is put on the board of the Kingdom. I'll just say it neatly. And everyone here says: yes, that is The Hague, so that will... The Netherlands are. I hear Mr Van Dam saying 'that must be Mr Bosman'. No, Mr. Van Dam, that must be the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. In fact, I have very few questions for the Secretary of State, because we know that this is a matter of country. Yet, in the same way as everyone else here, I ask: what has been asked by the countries? How specific is that? What can we deliver? How do we ensure that whatever we deliver will also lead to a long-term, structural solution to the problem on both Aruba and Curaçao? And how do we ensure that Aruba and Curaçao, but also Saint Martin, come out of the crisis more independently and stronger in the future? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u75	Thank you, Mr. Bosman. I now give the floor to Mr Drost on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. With a distance of only 30 kilometers, less far than from Amsterdam to Utrecht, the mainland of Venezuela can be seen from Aruba. Now that there are some 3.5 million Venezuelans on the run, it is not surprising that, according to estimates, thousands have landed on the Lower Wind Islands of Aruba, Bonaire and Curaçao, with all the consequences. What I am missing in the documents that have been sent to the Chamber in recent months is a description and an explanation of the situation on the ground by the cabinet. Can the Secretary of State therefore indicate how many refugees are now involved in his opinion, in his opinion, according to his assessment, and what impact the flow of refugees and the disappearance of Venezuela as a trading partner is having on local economies? Can the Secretary of State also comment in particular on the consequences and the situation of Bonaire as a special public body? Mr. Chairman. There is much to do about the responsibility of the Netherlands and the Kingdom to intervene or not to support. Can the Secretary of State once again state clearly how the Netherlands implements Article 36 of the Staff Regulations? The Secretary of State also cites Article 36 in his letter of 22 February last in response to Curaçao and Aruba's requests for assistance. In that letter, he indicated that he would provide the support requested by Aruba. I do not read such a clear answer in the passage on the Curaçao request. Is this also fully accepted and, if not, in what area? When does the Secretary of State expect to come up with the details? Mr. Chairman. In recent weeks, several parallels have been drawn with the Dutch aid to Colombia for which, on the basis of the ODA criteria, 4 million have been made available for the reception of Venezuelan refugees. Although the situation is not identical, I understand the frustration of the islands that would have liked further financial support. Can the Secretary of State clarify this, especially given human rights organisations, that the situation of refugees in Curaçao is worse qualified than in Colombia? Had the islands, if they were not part of the Kingdom, been able to claim similar Dutch aid? Mr. Chairman. In the Kingdom, we need to provide support in crisis situations, but we also need to address each other on abuses. When human rights are under pressure, for example by violating the principle of non-refoulement, the statutory guarantee function of the Kingdom is addressed. Can the Secretary of State indicate exactly what powers and obligations that guarantee function entails in the Kingdom? Apart from this, the Christian Union believes that the Netherlands, as by far the largest country in the Kingdom, has a moral responsibility to address the prevention of human rights violations in the Kingdom. Does the Secretary of State feel this responsibility? Has the Secretary of State taken note of Refugees International's report on the status and protection of Venezuelan refugees in Curaçao? Are the reports that Curaçao is sending refugees recognised by the UNHCR back to Venezuela with Maduro's support, without clarity or danger? If this is indeed done in conjunction with Maduro, how does it relate to the fact that external relations are matters of the Kingdom under the Staff Regulations? Has the government been passively or actively involved in this? Finally, is it true that Curaçao is acting in violation of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms to return refugees to unsafe areas? Is this treaty currently valid in Curaçao? Does the Secretary of State agree with us that recognizing and acting on this treaty should be conditional on Dutch support in setting up the foreign chain? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u77	Thank you, Mr. Drost. Finally, I give the floor to Mr De Graaf on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. After asking so many questions by other parties, perhaps a more contemplative contribution will follow from my side. We often hear here in the Chamber that the root causes of problems need to be addressed. It doesn't matter what, but the word "causes of origin" always comes out. That's what we need to talk about. The question is whether they are being addressed, but at least as lip service here in the Chamber there is evidence that there are root causes of the problems. I'll see two in this case. Firstly, there is the failure of the socialist revolution in Venezuela. Now I have to say that it has failed everywhere it is applied. That was the case in the USSR, Cuba, Albania, North Korea, a number of countries on the African continent, and I can go on for a while. Everywhere you try socialism, people go wrong. The result is always economic malaise, thick leaders combined with an emaciated population, terror and oppression. To illustrate this fact: in Venezuela alone, according to Reuters Press Office, the population lost an average of 11 kilograms of body weight per person. That wasn't because they were doing sports like that, but because there was no food because of socialism. In the newspaper I read a quote from a Caracas resident who said: here even the stray dogs are hungry. It's too poignant to hear what socialism does. He also said, "Small dogs who are hungry are getting fake." Mr. Chairman. The lawfulness of collectivism is persistent in the world. The "successes" of the five great collectivisms known to the world are that its national and international socialism, communism, fascism and Islam are only counted in numbers of dead bodies. Where hunger is, people go looking for food and try to cope with the miserable situation created by leadership. For example, by fleeing to one of the Downwind Islands in this case. Most people try to escape the misery via land, for example Colombia, British Guiana and Brazil. That is a hugely long border, and of course many people can go that way, although I would prefer the Venezuelan people to overthrow the regime. Then I come to the second observation. The two downwind countries in our Kingdom are not in complete administrative and financial order. We know that. That is also why big brother Netherlands has been asked for help. The Secretary of State already made 5.1 million available last year. But "not quite in order" has a nice, pleasant, example-setting side effect here, which we as the Netherlands can learn a lot from, namely: sharing best practices, in beautiful Dutch. The failure to sign the UN Refugee Convention or to have an asylum procedure does have an exemplary effect. People don't say, "We're not gonna eat the whole shit out there." That happens in the Netherlands, because here people are taken care of and put in the hammock as a result of illegal boarding, and then they get everything, even priority over a rental house. Imagine that it would be the same on Aruba and Curaçao, with such a beautiful.. or that is beautiful, you have to decide for yourself.. or at least extensive social safety net as we have in the Netherlands, then in a few years the Venezuelans would simply have the upper hand over ordinary Curaçaoians and Arubaans. Of course, we shouldn't want that. I don't think the people sitting there want that either. That's why they're here. The misery would have been unseen. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to put two questions to the Secretary of State. How many of the Venezuelans now considered illegal by the governments of Curaçao and Aruba are illegals who have been living on the islands for longer than this crisis? How many were there before the crisis? This obviously has consequences for the possible approach of the governments there, but also for possible aid from the Netherlands. Furthermore, since we already have enough to eat in our own country with illegal asylum seekers and immigrants, can the Minister promise that no Venezuelan citizen will be granted a residence status in the Netherlands via the downwind crisis route, so to speak? Even though Venezuelans are generally Christian, sweet and quick to fit into a western culture, we simply have no place in the Netherlands. I'd like to leave it at that for the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u79	Thank you, Mr. De Graaf. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'll check with the Secretary of State if he needs a brief suspension. We'll get right on it. Or do you say we can take dinner break now? What's useful? We're just gonna have dinner break and then we're gonna move on. Then we must get good answers, they say. Yeah, good answers, that's important.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u80	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u81	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks to Members for their input in the first term. My name is the members of the States of Aruba and Curaçao... they have become a little less, but I think there will be a little more.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u82	They're here, though. They'll be here soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u83	... welcome to this debate. I shall take this opportunity immediately, and those who are not yet here will hear it later, in order to point out for my part that despite the problems that Curaçao and Aruba have to a large extent, and Saint Martin to a different extent, the contacts with both governments are very good. Do we agree on everything? No, we do not always agree on everything, but it is important to at least recognise that these contacts are good, also with regard to the point that is at the heart of this debate, namely how we deal with the geopolitical crisis within the Kingdom that is projected for Venezuela and that affects the entire Caribbean region. Is there any willingness and recognition to take all this seriously? I have no doubt that this is taken extremely seriously by the governments of those countries, but also by the States of Curaçao and Aruba.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u84	The Secretary of State has just spoken and Mr Van Raak is already interrupting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u85	A little bit about tonight's procedure. I think that the Secretary of State can work well with the governments of Aruba and Curaçao is fantastic news. We've had to wait years for that. I only wanted to be able to check today whether the Secretary of State responded to the specific requests made by Aruba and Curaçao, and I would also like to know what those specific requests are. I have tried to find out from Members of this House and everywhere, but I did not get it and Mr Van Dam did deviously. I'm less devious and I didn't get it. Couldn't we just get those requests?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u86	I was still working on my preliminary remarks. This was one of Mr Van Raak's most important questions and I will come back to that in a moment. Allow me to mention, in the context of the order, the blocks by which I wish to give the answer. First of all, I would like to say something about the asylum procedure and the guarantee function. Secondly, on aid and assistance. Mr Van Raak's request will be dealt with. Then about the border closures and the hub function of Curaçao and then a number of other questions. So there are four cubes, but that doesn't say anything about the length of the cubes. I'm trying to answer the questions in a good way. I also realize that a number of questions that have been asked are in areas for which I am not responsible in the Cabinet. You know that the cabinet speaks with one voice, but I am not yet speaking on behalf of the entire cabinet; not yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u87	There. A freudian slip.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u88	No doubt. But that means that in some areas I may not be able to fully answer the questions that have been asked. I would like to make that point in the front. Perhaps to respond to Mr Bosman's comment, in advance. We can zoom in on the problems that exist, but since the Statute and political relations have been updated on 10-10-10, more than eight years ago, we can see that all three countries have a lot of challenges. These are challenges related to finance, economics and socio-economic development. For Sint-Maarten the natural disasters have been added. On the Downwind Islands, you can see the extent of the dependency of Venezuela from the past, both economically and socio-economically. It all comes together around the refugee problem. So that creates an extremely challenging situation for those countries. I think it is a good thing to say that if you have a discussion about how to assist each other, and the Statute is absolutely clear that we are there for each other if assistance and assistance are to be provided, you start with the position of who is responsible for what. Let me say that, as far as I am concerned, the way we work together is not limited to the consequences of the refugee crisis alone. The crisis in Venezuela itself, which has been discussed by a number of Members, has assumed such proportions that there are really great humanitarian effects on the population, at the hands of its own leaders. We are also looking at how we can shape sustainable country building and assist countries, not only when there is an emergency, but also, for example, to ensure that public finances are put in a sustainable place. We know the discussions through the Cft and CAft. But it's not just about pointing the finger at "it's not going well," it's about helping. I notice that it sometimes lacks very much knowledge, skills and abilities. I think that we too, apart from the crisis that is now taking place and that is one way of saying that we are going to have a long way to go from the outside to strengthen each other within the Kingdom on that point. I'm gonna start with my block one now. Mrs Diertens asked about these asylum procedures, with the procedures to check whether or not a person can be called a refugee. With regard to Curaçao, because that is what the question was about, the situation at the moment is as follows. The Curaçao government is looking at how this procedure can be properly organised. I believe that Mr Van Dam rightly said that this is not something you turn with a button, and that it works; you will have to build this step by step, because there was no experience of it at all. As you know, Curaçao has not ratified the Refugee Convention. Does that mean that Curaçao doesn't have to take anything into account? No, because Article 3 of the ECHR, as well as the principle of non-refoulement, applies the right that you cannot be returned if you have to fear for your own safety. Everyone agrees that we must set up the asylum procedure in such a way that individual checks are also carried out. At the moment, that procedure is in preparation. It will also be discussed in the near future by the Curaçao Council of Ministers. And that's what's going to be decided. Mr Van Raak wondered whether people could be sent back. In fact, I have already answered that question: no, it can't just happen. But it is good, and some of you spoke about it in order to distinguish between refugees and migrants. People come forward because they're looking for refuge elsewhere. That could be in neighbouring countries or a country. That could also be overseas, and then they end up in Curaçao, Aruba or Bonaire. And so there has to be an individual review. You can send that back voluntarily after that. Then it's not really sending it back, but people can say: I don't have the right to asylum, so I'm going back myself. Or people can be sent back. Despite the fact that there is, in a formal sense, a border closure with Venezuela, it is happening sporadicly that there can be sent back either directly to Venezuela or through its neighbouring countries, via the mainland. And as long as there is no return, those people are placed in foreign detention, or in detention, and that has now happened in Curaçao. People with a duty to report, as it is called, are "sent." They will then stay in Curaçao and have to report, and there will be a follow-up to who has applied for asylum and where these people are. Of course, these are not all optimal procedures, because all the systems of the countries are not designed for such calamity. That is precisely why, when these requests came from Curaçao and Aruba, we looked at how best to facilitate them, so that they could also put their facilities in order, and that more capacity could also be added to a phenomenon with which, unfortunately, we have a lot of experience here on the European continent, but with which there was little experience in that area. Mrs Özütok asked whether human rights were being violated. Look, in general, I can never rule that out. There are also cases that have walked there. But you see, and I see, also in contacts I had on my recent visit to Curaçao and Aruba, that the governments, and in particular the Ministers of Justice I spoke about, take the situation very seriously, and that this particular individual review should, for example, avoid acting contrary to Article 3 of the ECHR, or that people are being held under humanitarianly irresponsible situations. Honesty commands that you don't change this from one day to the next either. Even if we pledge support when a request is made, that does not mean that the next day the facility is settled. But I see an uphill road. And I see that, and I think that is even more important, the political will of both countries to realise the provisions needed to prevent human rights violations. And it has been rightly said: it is a matter of country. It is, and will always be, but it is precisely in this kind of situation, where there is a sudden influx, that countries must be able to count on the support of other countries within the Kingdom, and in this case also of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u89	I am very pleased with these positive sounds of good cooperation. I also understand that implementing all kinds of systems is complicated. But could the Secretary of State indicate when he thinks that people can make good use of asylum procedures, with what timetable?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u90	That's a fair question. I think it would be a good idea if I could return to this in writing because of due diligence. I'll give you some information in writing anyway. I will keep you informed at regular intervals, precisely because we are going to have a dynamic that we cannot predict from day to day, but which it is good that you can follow how things are going, what is happening and what progress is being made on the improvements to the system. This concerns, for example, the decision-making in the Council of Ministers, but also the realization of the foreign detention in Curaçao.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u91	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his answer on a humane policy towards refugees. He indicated that this should be regulated in a procedural sense and that steps should be taken. Thank you for that. My main problem remains: are under these circumstances, knowing that the situation in Venezuela is so distressing that people still have to flee again, people still return, yes or no? It's very concrete.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u92	I could answer that in a very specific way. You are now asking the Secretary of State for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, but still a little back: it is a national responsibility. As in individual cases, I am going to put it as abstractly, because I am not going to deal with individual cases in people who do not have the right to asylum, they are going to see if they can go back. That depends on the situation. Where does anyone come from? Are the boundaries temporarily open? Can people be taken care of in Colombia? Because, as has already been said, the Netherlands has contributed, among other things, ODA funds to ensure reception in the region. We do not want to see situations such as those we have experienced in the Mediterranean, where people make a terrible crossing, with all the risks. We don't want that. There's reception capacity there. It depends on the situation whether it can or can't. That's considered individually. I have just indicated that in some cases people will not be returned because the situation is not considered justified. Then there is a duty to report.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u93	I understand that, but it's still not clear where that reception capacity is. Is that in Colombia that Curaçao can use? Or is that also on Curaçao itself?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u94	If someone does not have the right to asylum, they must return, unless it turns out that this is temporarily impossible. This can only be established after an individual review has been carried out. "Back" is a broad term, by the way. We agree with the countries that this does not always have to be the country of origin. It can also be to the region from which one comes. "The region' is defined in this case as "Venezuela of Colombia'.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u95	I understand the Secretary of State's response. Asylum cases in Curaçao are not his direct responsibility. I think it touches on the guarantee function of the Kingdom. It's about human rights. I welcome the reply and the news that the human rights situation is being addressed. But what do we do in the meantime? I think you could do something. At least you can talk about it. Do you? An example. We are getting signals that people are not granted refugee status. Without dealing with individual cases: for them, their situation is changing tremendously. It can have big personal consequences. From your role, you might be able to do something with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u96	I understand the question, because we have committed ourselves in the Kingdom to international treaties. In addition, it is noted that Curaçao has not ratified treaties, in this case the Refugee Convention, and that Aruba is working with a protocol, which still comes from the status separate. De facto, they have the same effect, as they are based on Article 3 of the ECHR. So it's a little complicated. It is also a country matter. We are now discussing this issue with the governments. I did that on the last visit; I was on Aruba and Curaçao a week and a half ago. We're asking the ministers responsible to tell us what they're doing. I've been to the locations, too. I have seen what is happening now with the funds that the Netherlands has made available. It's not a process we're done with now either. I don't have that feeling at all. In fact, I expect more requests in this area. In any case, we want to step by step to improve that procedure. This requires decision-making in the Ministerial Councils, and this requires technical knowledge and assistance. If we can deliver that, we'd be happy to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u97	I am pleased with that, but that will take some time and there may be more steps. In the meantime, the flow of refugees may increase or increase. So we're talking about people. I think that we should talk to the government there about how we can make provision in the meantime for people to be properly received and treated.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u98	Yes, the latter is justified. I've also been to a location of the Red Cross where there's emergency shelter. It was far from filled, this to indicate that it is of course a bit fluctuating. How many people come on a certain day? There is no massive influx at the moment. That goes up and down. The figures show a slight increase but not a large increase. That means that in your amenities at the moment you can suffice with the things that are happening. Further steps are taken each time. It is therefore not the case that we have accepted requests and then leaned back. So we're talking. We have people there who have advised on the procedures. I mention, for example, the training program. How can you ensure that the people there are properly trained and that they are equipped when it comes to foreign detention and review of procedures? We'll monitor that. It is a matter of national concern at first instance, but from the fact that we are talking about it here, you and I feel a responsibility to talk and think about it. This is without prejudice to the fact that the formal responsibilities I cannot stress it often enough because otherwise you come into some kind of misty thing.... will of course remain with the countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u99	It is a bit of an abuse to target an interruption to the Secretary of State perhaps also to the people who are in the Chair's Lodge, but I would like to emphasise...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u100	You're being honest about it, aren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u101	Yes. I was in Strasbourg two weeks ago at the European Court of Human Rights. That is where we, as Dutch parliamentarians, are addressed about things that we are not formally talking about, because the Secretary of State quite rightly says that the primary responsibility lies with the national government. I just heard him say that if any further arrangements have been made with Curaçao, he will report to the Chamber. However, I would ask him to bring that point to the attention of those governments, namely that we are not formally talking about it but that we are being called upon to do so. In that context, I would be very pleased if we could have information from that side of the ocean as well. 'Cause we're not going over it, but we're going over it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u102	Take it from me that I have, of course, brought this point to the attention of the authorities there, at the risk of us interfering in a national political debate, even when it comes to providing figures and, for example, requests for aid. You know the familiar adage that determines the sender whether or not something becomes public. Those are always the preconditions that we are dealing with. I am in favour of as much transparency as possible. What you don't want at the same time is that by opening up everything and sharing all the scenarios in the public domain, you get a kind of self-filling prophecy. That is something I am very much watching for and the countries themselves are much more aware of, because that is also the message we get with each time: beware, it is nice that you are having a debate on this but it is about our countries and we already have a number of problems. The last thing we want is unintentionally creating a kind of influx because we have our procedures so well in order and everything is so well arranged.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u103	I fully understand that, and I fully agree with that. At the same time, in my folder there is a thick report from Amnesty International in which all things are called. I found it uncomfortable not to go into that at all and not to respond to it. So you must see my comment in that light.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u104	It is not at all that I find it annoying to talk about this. Apart from the refugee crisis in Venezuela, I have also been to Saint Martin with Mr Dekker, and there we see a lot of challenges when it comes to law enforcement. But I also see the progress. I also see that now that the police detention there has finally been refurbished, also in response to statements and discussions and debates that have taken place. So things do happen. It's slow sometimes, but something's happening. There is no longer the denial that there is a problem at all. Everyone I speak to, I feel recognition of the problem, which doesn't mean we're already there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u105	Well, speaking of recognizing problems... I'm very much in favour of us helping wherever we can. But I can't escape the impression that many Venezuelans have been there for much longer. They were deliberately brought in by companies as cheap labour, while young people on the island couldn't get to work and politicians took a lot of money. We have even seen examples of this. There's already a former minister in prison. Should we not, if we are going to offer help, also offer other help, namely to say that this thunder is over?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u106	Mr Van Raak's point, as Mr De Graaf said, is that it is not the case that illegal migration has started with Venezuela at once. No, not at all. In fact, the system is partly based on that. That is not contradicted, by the way. So that's the good news: it's not being contradicted. That also means that you're discussing the numbers of people who are illegal. How many are there now? It is not possible to link one-on-one to the current crisis in Venezuela. I also mentioned earlier in the debate that we should not do that, because they are part of the system. You can also see that it is not really visible on Aruba in particular. On Curaçao more, but not on Aruba. This means that people are used to receiving people from outside, with whom there are often family relationships. And that they have no formal status is clear. I should like to begin by looking at the humanitarian aspect in the short term. In the longer term, including the point I made with regard to sustainable public finances, what kind of economy do you want to be? Of course, this will be a subject on which the politics of Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin will also have to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u107	Absolutely. We must also help in this, and the SP will always support and insist on this. But if we want to help the people on the islands, we have to make sure that we are now helping against this flow of refugees: we need to see how we can receive or send people back. But that makes no sense if we do not at the same time put an end to illegal labour migration. We also need to ensure that entrepreneurs who employ people illegally get the inspection on their roofs and are punished. And we have to make sure that politicians who make a lot of money from that go to jail. And we just have to make an appointment with the government of Aruba and Curaçao: we're done with this bullshit; we're just not gonna do that anymore. Only then can we offer a real solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u108	The system works in the sense that people who have been guilty of this have now been convicted. You gonna fix all that from today to tomorrow? No, I can't. But that will mostly require a conversation. Mr Van Raak speaks of 'we', but in this case it is mainly 'they', namely the politicians of the countries responsible for this. And we say that I know that debate and know that there is criticism of it in the eyes of the countries sometimes conditions for our aid. These are conditions that are all meant to make things better and to implement better governance, whether in Saint Martin or in Curaçao. I also notice that the attitude towards, for example, Curaçao and Aruba has really changed on that point. Is that what it's done with? No. That will continue to be a discussion, but let me say that we are now focusing mainly on the fulfilment of the de facto requirement, I would say at least, because the law is another issue which is also subject to the conditions laid down in Article 3 of the ECHR, so that someone who calls for asylum can be assured that an individual review is taking place. And that other issue, that which Mr Van Raak is talking about, which has been built in decades, we are not going to solve overnight, which does not mean that it is not important to continue discussing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u109	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u110	I'm moving on, Mr. Chairman. Mr Drost spoke about the guarantee function. It's in the Staff Regulations as an ultimatum remedium. This guarantee function is a kind of back-up: if the countries themselves cannot fulfil the responsibilities assigned to them, and if they have done everything they can to give shape and substance to those responsibilities, then that guarantee function can be used. It is an ultimum remedium, a last resort and it is not a very attractive perspective for the countries themselves, because it actually transfers the power to the Kingdom level. It is a bit like Article 12 in the municipality: the municipality is no longer about it. So what you can see, also in the contacts we have with the countries, is that we are very keen to get out of that guarantee regime. Mr Bosman was right to say that sometimes it is discussed. But when I talk to the governments, they want to do things by themselves, also because they see that if you enter that guarantee regime, then you have failed at all previous stages, including as politics and as governance. So I am much more convinced that working with the countries, all those phases prior to the deployment of that guarantee function, is in everyone's interest. During my last visit to Aruba and Curaçao, I raised this issue and this is also endorsed by the governments there. Mr Drost also asked if I have any responsibility for human rights. Yes, I certainly feel that responsibility, taking into account where it is primarily invested, namely with the countries. But the way in which we act now by responding positively, if there is a request based on Article 36, with a positive basic attitude, whether or not, I say in the direction of Mr Van Raak, with conditions if that would be necessary, if that helps the process to prevent such situations in the future is, in my opinion, what we should give to respect for human rights, which we all hold dear, also in the countries. The Netherlands has also undertaken to do so as a member of the Kingdom of the Netherlands. I think that the way we are doing it now, with the way we are debating it, here and in the states of the countries, is the de facto most important contribution to the rapid implementation of these conventions, regardless of the legal aspects, as I have just explained. Then I'll be at the second block, Mr. Chairman. That's got a little overlap with the first one. It's about help and assistance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u111	The Secretary of State is very clear: we make agreements for improvement. Mr Van Dam has already called me a bit cynical, but we have been making arrangements with Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten for a long time. Plans of approach; I only have to mention the prison on Saint Martin and we know it doesn't work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u112	Are you going to sum up the entire first term, Mr. Bosman?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u113	No, but this is important, Mr. Chairman. We made a deal about the finances in Aruba. In fact, we make agreements about that every two or three years, and it doesn't work. What has changed so that the Secretary of State thinks that there will actually be a follow-up to the agreements he is going to make?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u114	This is indeed a bit of a question with a cynical undertone, if you ask him like that. Let's ignore Saint Martin for a moment, because that doesn't directly affect Venezuela. There is always a connection, but it is mainly Aruba and Curaçao. I note that no one on the islands, the countries of Aruba and Curaçao, denies that there is a problem and I see that they feel morally bound by the basic principles of Article 3 of the ECHR. At the same time, it is a country. I said that, just in my introduction, there are many challenges and problems. The Isla was already mentioned by Mrs. Diertens. If something really goes wrong there, it has a huge impact on a small island, on a small island state. So I really don't want to be cynical about that. Of course, I also have my own experiences with non-compliances and I will act on them when necessary, but I really have the feeling that there are improvements everywhere; I see that happening. The question is whether these improvements are sustainable: is one also politically willing to tell that sometimes difficult story? You can just imagine a debate in the States of Aruba or Curaçao where it is said: for the refugees everything is arranged, while our own people still have problems. Of course, that's what's going on, isn't it? The socio-economic situation is really not to write about home. That requires courage from the politicians there, but I see genuine commitment to the governments to change that. So let me answer the question very briefly: I do not think so, nor do I hope that Mr Bosman is right on this particular point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u115	I'm happy about that. I know the Secretary of State as an optimistic man, but also as a perseverant; former airmen often are. Still, about standing up for the people of Aruba. We have also heard that the Labour Inspectorate does not monitor illegal workers of Venezuelan origin. Surely it is precisely in order to protect the people of Aruba that we should take that point very seriously? Is the Secretary of State talking about that? Is that information he has, hears, sees or notices?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u116	As I said in my reply to Mr Van Raak, I recognise that problem, but I have made a distinction between the acute problem of ensuring that the procedures are in place and that you can test individually, and the issue that has been built up over decades and now needs to be brought to a conclusion. That is not even easy, because the economies of both countries are already struggling and are also based on cheap labour and a grey circuit, to name but a few. That is also recognised, but it has not yet been resolved. I say to Mr Bosman that I would like to bring this point to the attention of the governments, but I would add a small profit warning for the results in the short term. This requires a transformation of the way this is done, and there are already so many challenges.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u117	Finally, Mr. Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u118	I am very pleased with this commitment, because it is really important. That does mean that we need to see movement in the short term. That it hasn't been solved, I understand, but there's got to be a movement that some sort of inspection is gonna handle this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u119	What I can do is transmit this signal from the Chamber. I am going back to Mr Bosman, because that is what the countries themselves are about. We are allowed to hold all the debates within the Kingdom, and you can do so at the IPKO where these kinds of issues are raised. I promise I will transmit this signal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u120	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u121	Then there is the question of a number of Members, but in particular Mr Van Raak has asked whether the requests for aid will be made public. I contacted Aruba and Curaçao during the suspension. They send these kinds of requests, so it's not up to me to make them public. The authorities there have indicated that they have no objection to this specific visit. That means that those requests for help can be shared with you. I suggest that I send that to your Chamber in a letter. I do think it is important not to set a precedent that I automatically forward all letters or requests from governments of Curaçao or Aruba that reach me to the Chamber. That wasn't the question, but I just wanted to say that. With regard to this request and on this subject, I assume that this is a line that we can simply follow.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u122	Are you at the next part now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u123	I was already at block two, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u124	That's not ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u125	No, that's not ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u126	It can be very short. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his efforts, but I ask this because I have been lobbied for weeks by parliamentarians from Aruba and Curaçao who say: hello, we have made a request and that is not being met! I am only a simple representative of the people, but then I want to be able to check whether or not the Secretary of State has complied with such a request. I'd have liked it better tonight. If we'd had that letter, we could've crossed this off here. But it doesn't seem possible. Could the Secretary of State send those letters, which request, and also indicate which requests have been met, which are not and why?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u127	That's exactly why I made the proposal like I did. With that, I can tell from my side what happened to it and how we handled it. Then you'll get the source requests. I think I have answered the questions that have been raised on this subject. More specific questions have been asked, but I propose, because of the time, that I send all the questions on which requests have been received by letter to the Chamber. Unless the members appreciate it...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u128	Don't invite them, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u129	You're the chairman. I don't want to make them short. I'll do this one, and I'll make it quick. Perhaps another point from Mr Bosman, who was wondering, as a result of the discussion, what the countries themselves are doing to deal with processes in the foreign chain. I have just mentioned that procedures are currently in place in the Curaçao Government, but Aruba has also set up a crisis service to deal with asylum applications. They're trained by the IND. The Secretary of State for JenV has delegated people. At the end of the day, I think it is a matter of urgency that we should be able to lay down conditions. I am not saying that we always do so in order to frame the aid we make available, financially or intelligible, in a certain way: you will receive the help you are asking for, but then we assume that you will do so and so yourself. That has so far been the essence of our response to the requests, and you will see this later. That depends a little on the specific requests.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u130	I would like to take advantage of the Secretary of State's offer to find out exactly what has been requested and what is being offered at a later date. But can I ask at this point whether there are substantial differences in which the Dutch Government cannot comply with requests? Are there huge mismatches or can the Secretary of State say anything about whether these requests can be met? I'm not fishing, but just trying to get a general picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u131	For the record, I believe that most of the requests have been met as requested. Perhaps not all of them, but at the heart of the requests that have been made. After all, we always test what a country is responsible for and what we can do. You should remember, above all, that we have contributed to the foreign detention, to knowledge and skills, to the training of people; that kind of request. Maybe you'll keep the question until you get the letter. If you have any questions about it...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u132	Okay, go on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u133	... then we can discuss that further. Mr Bosman wondered how this assistance would lead to structural solutions. We just, I think, talked about how we all do that. Mr Van Dam's question was about what I call what if scenarios. Good question, but I'm not gonna answer it here. By answering that question and by mentioning what we are all looking at, what we are all watching, what we are all taking into account and in which we make our own assessment, together with the countries, I would share things to the public that are not suitable to share, other than that we are afterwards answerable for what we have done. That wasn't the question, was it, Mr. Van Dam? Then I guess I didn't get you correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u134	Would you like to clarify the question, Mr. Van Dam?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u135	I certainly did not want to put you in the position that you should indeed mention that kind of detail here. I just want to know more. Has anyone seen ahead? Are there any scenarios in place? Of course, it is an obvious answer to say 'yes' and we will continue. But I just want to make the point of looking ahead, including with the governments. I understand that you are not going to say here 'we have this and that and that and that lying'. It also seems to me tactically extremely clumsy to bring that up here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u136	Mr Van Dam can assume that, of course, we are looking forward. It is not enough to predict everything, but we are looking forward, together with the countries. Then Mr Van Dam still had questions about the Coast Guard. That is, of course, a matter for the Minister of Defence. The countries are represented in the Presidency of the Coast Guard. There, of course, is also looked ahead. There is also a good look at where the needs lie. For the time being, the means are sufficient to act. There can also be shifts where priorities are laid down. That's all I'm gonna say right now. Mrs Diertens' question: how are countries assisted in receiving shelter? I think I just answered that question. Then I come to the third block around border blockades and the hub function of Curaçao. Mrs Diertens wondered if there was still a border blockade. Yes, in a formal sense, there has been one since mid-February. What you see is that this has partly shifted trade flows, because that blockade has existed for so long. Some of the negative effects are offset by contact with other countries, but it is, of course, an obstacle. The supply of oil is separate from that border closure. There are problems with the Venezuelan state oil company, which, of course, experiences the consequences of sanctions. Through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of which, as you know, the Minister for Foreign Affairs is the Minister for Foreign Affairs on behalf of the whole of the Kingdom of Venezuela, the Venezuelan authorities are urged to normalize the situation, because lifting a blockade is better for everyone, not least for the people of Venezuela itself. I do that through our embassy in Caracas. As mentioned earlier, this blockade would first be temporary, but temporarily takes longer. Every now and then, despite the formal blockade, there is another opening. That can't always be predicted. Then, in consultation with the Venezuelan authorities, it is often considered whether out-of-work migrants can return. The economic consequences are, of course, there. They are not so acute, because other ways are found with other countries. But it lays a kind of blanket about the development of Curaçao and Aruba, because of its close connections, historically, with the Venezuelan state oil company. So it's really a situation that is demonstrably interfering with the economy, apart from the fact that there are far fewer tourists from Venezuela visiting the islands. Ms Özütok asked about the status of the humanitarian hub. You were also informed about this by the Minister of Foreign Affairs. This is done in close consultation with the government of Curaçao. We want to ensure that the aid is actually made available to people with humanitarian needs in Venezuela. From there, you can quickly distribute. But we're not gonna force it. Let me be clear: cooperation with the United States is completely civil in nature. That's what we recorded in a MoU. The first humanitarian goods arrived on 3 April. We continue to call, also through diplomatic lines, for aid to be granted to Venezuela. This has not yet led to concrete aid. The question that Mrs Özütok specifically asked was what kind of aid was involved. These are mainly medical supplies, which are ready to become available when permission is obtained to let them into Venezuela. Mrs Özütok also asked about the reception in the region. What does it look like? In addition to the 4 million from the ODA of the Minister for Foreign Trade and OS, who has been made available to Colombia and plays a major role in preventing people from making the risky crossing by sea, the Red Cross has also received 1 million. Previously we gave €80,000 to the Venezuelan Red Cross via the Dutch Red Cross. There is also financial support from IOM and UNHCR programmes to support the population in Venezuela. In addition, there is bilateral funding. The Dutch Relief Alliance, the consortium also funded by Dutch NGOs, is also launching a humanitarian programme for Venezuelan refugees this year. The whole package should help to ensure that the aid is sufficient. I would point out immediately that no one, of course, knows exactly how the situation in Venezuela is going to develop. So far, you see it slowly going downhill, while you think it can't deteriorate any further. Mr De Graaf expressed this very strikingly. There is a distressing emergency. That is why we are calling on the Venezuelan authorities to at least allow aid for the people so that those who are already suffering a great deal do not have to suffer any more.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u137	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for replying to this section. I understand that there is cooperation with these institutions in the asylum procedure. I would like to ask you, in the letter you have promised, to discuss in detail how this individual review is taking place and how the return to Colombia is going in a procedural sense. If you can promise me that, I'm totally happy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u138	I will be in contact with the countries on this, but as far as I am concerned, I can do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u139	I still have a question about the Coast Guard. I had asked whether you were actually scaled up and whether you could be a little more factual about that. I've heard that human trafficking in the chain is also being picked up by the Coast Guard. How does that go if responsibility is transferred to the police on the islands and they themselves become responsible for it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u140	This question is somewhat along the lines of Mrs Özütok's question. I can explain how the procedure works orally here, but I think it would be good to put that in that letter, including with regard to the responsibilities. Mrs Özütok had another question about the International Contact Group's humanitarian mission. A technical humanitarian mission to Venezuela will take place this week, as part of the International Contact Group. It is an English name, but you could also say: the international contact group. The Netherlands is taking part in this. The mission aims to make an inventory of the situation and to see what is on the ground. Mr Drost wondered whether the islands could claim the ODA funds. I fully understand the logic of this question, but the answer is no. The funds can only be deployed in accordance with the applicable conditions of the ODA and which does not provide for making them available to countries within the Kingdom. That's, of course, in a way... You see here the disadvantage of having such a construct of a kingdom. That doesn't make it possible. My question was also: can we make that possible? It doesn't seem to be that easy. So now we focus mainly on shelter in the region, in Colombia. I think that the Ministry of BH-OS is doing the right thing, that this cannot be made available to the countries. Mrs Diertens was still wondering whether there was any coordination or not. cooperation with other EU countries. She also mentioned Saint Martin and that region as an example. Of course, there are many islands in the area that are indirectly part of the United Kingdom, the Commonwealth, and there are French islands. So yes, there is coordination at European level on how to do things, but on the operational level, say on the ground, it is above all the responsibility of the countries or the kingdoms to which they belong. The committee has, however, agreed, also in the new OCT standards for the future, which we, as the Netherlands, have also participated in, to see how we can work more closely together in that area. We are trying to promote this cooperation on the ground with Saint Martin and Saint Martin. That could be even better, is my assessment. But the first relatively simple examples are already not easy. It calls for agreement from both sides. In any case, there is that willingness from France and the Netherlands. I am glad that there is now also a breakthrough in the area of waste water treatment in Saint Martin and Saint Martin and that there is going to be cooperation. I am leaving tomorrow for the World Bank in Washington, where this item is also on the agenda, specifically with regard to Saint Martin, to see how we can work together here. Then I'll be at the last block, the other questions. They are no less important, but could not be classified under a heading.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u141	Before you proceed, Mr Drost has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u142	On one point, I have not yet received an answer to the question I have asked. I wonder if we share the urgency. It is about the signals we have received, including from the reports of human rights organisations. They say there are refugees, with refugee status, who are sent back to Venezuela. I asked you a question about whether you had heard those signals. That is question one; perhaps you can answer it already. After that, of course, the point is that we want to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u143	I propose that I answer those questions in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u144	That seems to me to be a reasonable proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u145	Fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u146	Mr Drost also wondered what the consequences of the crisis in Venezuela were for Bonaire. For the time being, these effects seem to be fairly limited. Just for the sake of completeness: Caribbean Netherlands is directly under the responsibility of the Secretary of State for Justice and Security. There are very few illegal landings and very few asylum applications. So I can report on that. Then Mrs Özütok asked how many asylum applications were made on Aruba, Curaçao and Bonaire. On Bonaire that is nil; very little. On Aruba and Curaçao I depend on the countries. I would have preferred to have given you an answer, but those dates are not always available, or those countries that cannot or do not wish to provide. However, I can inform you that in Curaçao, the admission organisation has been responsible for the registration and transit of asylum applications to UNHCR since 2017. The Curaçao authorities have indicated that, on the basis of the requirements they have received from UNHCR, they rely on 312 persons, 180 of whom are Venezuelans. Then I talk about 2017; these are the figures for 2017. This only concerns persons who have registered UNHCR in Curaçao during visits in the last quarter of 2017. On Bonaire that was in 2017 one person, and in 2018 also one person. Those were both Venezuelans, and both applications were rejected. Those people left Bonaire.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u147	We are debating refugees to Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin all evening. We are constantly warned from Aruba and Curaçao that many refugees are coming to the island. I have to take that seriously, as a serious question. But when I see that there is one application on Bonaire, I wonder: how can that difference be so great? How is it that one refugee has come forward at Bonaire, which is just as close, while many refugees have gone to Curaçao and Aruba? That's weird.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u148	That's a question I understand, but I can't answer. I can only base myself on the facts. I've reported that before. When there were reports that there would be a massive influx, I indicated that, in my view and also in the observation of the authorities in the two countries, this was not the case. That has everything to do with the fact that there have been people without formal status for decades. We have just had a debate on this. Those people may come in legally, but they'll have to go back on a visa and they won't. They stay and they become illegal. Try to make a distinction in that. It's not that easy. We must therefore base ourselves on the information we receive from the countries on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u149	I understand that, but if we want to help, of course, we need to know what we're helping for. Should we be helping refugees who are coming massively? Or should we focus our help on migrant workers coming? Or should we focus our help on people who are deliberately brought in by entrepreneurs while politicians are looking away? If we want to help, of course, we need to know what's going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u150	The reason is, of course, whether the Refugee Convention is being applied in a de facto way. I believe that this is also a matter of treaty law every time we talk about the Kingdom, the liability of the various countries, the responsibilities and also the guarantee function. The Refugee Convention, like Article 3 of the ECHR, states that an individual is being assessed as to whether a person is entitled to asylum. That's different from migration policy. This really is asylum policy. That was criticised, including by international NGOs. On the basis of the requests we have received, we have also said that we are making knowledge and skills available in order to achieve this and to ensure that these procedures meet the requirements. I think I have also answered Mr De Graaf's question. He asked how much illegal... He has made this point once again, even in previous debates. Honesty requires me to say that at least I cannot support the fact that the numbers mentioned by various organisations are correct. I can't argue with it either. But of course we can see what illegal landings are. I said earlier that this is still not a massive influx.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u151	I note that you are answering the questions of Members of Parliament. That's right, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u152	I'm still answering.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u153	I ask that because I see Mrs Diertens standing at the interrupting microphone, but I think you still have to answer her questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u154	I have nothing left of Mrs Dierten's, but I wonder what question she still has.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u155	Me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u156	I had to think about the answer about Saint Martin. You said that you have agreements with the World Bank on waste water, but we are talking about refugees in this debate. I was wondering if you could be more specific about the cooperation with France and Europe with regard to the economic migrants arriving at the airport and spreading over the Dutch part while they enter through France.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u157	I deliberately said what I said about this, to point out that there is still room for improvement in this area. I have also mentioned an example of where things are going well. So I thought I would have answered your question on this point. I have therefore answered Mr De Graaf's question. Mr De Graaf's final question was: does access to the Caribbean part of the Kingdom give access to the Netherlands? read: Bonaire................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The answer to that question is no. Access to or admission to residence in Aruba, Curaçao and Bonaire is restricted to those countries or public bodies respectively. Consequently, such access does not give the Netherlands access to, or residence status or recognition. That was the answer to your question. Mr. Chairman. I think I have answered all the questions, with the exception of Mr Drost's question, which I will come back to in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u158	Thank you. Let us now move on to the second term of office. I don't know if there's a need for that. Yes, that's the case. Then I'll go to Mrs. Diertens, on behalf of D66. She's now heading towards box-K. Yeah, that happens. A lot of ambitions have gone over the table today. You should never say "never."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u159	No, that's true. Mr. Chairman. I very much welcome the Secretary of State's assurances that he will return to two cases in writing and that we will have an expected timetable for the operation of the asylum procedure. For our group, it is: the sooner, the better. I'd like to ask you one more thing. Our Secretary of State is a coordinating Secretary of State, partly by a generally accepted D66 motion. He often refers to fellow ministers, I understand that very well, and there is often the responsibility, but in his coordinating role it is nice if we can be well informed during the debates. I would like to thank you for the binding relationship between all the parties, because that is very complicated, but in that sense it can be even clearer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u160	Thank you. Mr. Bosman, you're hyperactive tonight!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u161	Yes, but a question is being asked and it is very broad. So, what exactly does Mrs. Diertens want the Secretary of State to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u162	That's what he reported, and I thank him for that. He comes up with a timetable when the asylum procedure is set in motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u163	No, it was about the last part, about the tooth when coordinating.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u164	Oh, coordinating is...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u165	I understand what coordination is, but there's got to be something else. What's to be done?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u166	I hope that the Secretary of State himself will be able to inform his fellow ministers that he would like more information on what happened at that time on the issues we have raised today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u167	Yes, thank you. Mr Van Raak on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u168	This debate is running a little empty like a balloon. We would have a debate on refugees in Aruba, Curaçao and Bonaire on the basis of concrete requests made from Aruba and Curaçao, but I still have no idea what specific requests have been made. They were done by the government of Aruba and Curaçao. The Secretary of State says, according to Mr Van Dam, that this has been reasonably met. But I can't do my job like that. I'm a simple people's representative. If I want to verify that requests are met, I must first know what those requests are. I am happy that there will be letters, but I would have liked to have them before the debate. We don't know how many people we're talking about. We don't know who we're talking about either. Are we talking about migrant workers? Are we talking about people who were made a long time ago? Are we talking about refugees? How many people are we talking about? The Secretary of State says Bonaire is about one person. It's kind of a big deal. If it's one on Bonaire, how many are there on Curaçao and Aruba? If we are going to provide help, we need to know how many people we are talking about. If we're gonna set up procedures, you need to know what kind of flows you're talking about. I must say, honestly, that during this debate, I did not learn anything at all. I am sorry for the members of the States of Aruba and Curaçao who are here, and I look forward to the letter from the Secretary of State and then we should discuss it further. I hope that letter comes soon and we can talk about it soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u169	Thank you, Mr. Van Raak. Then I will go to Mrs Özütok on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u170	Mr. Chairman. We have been speaking for a while and there have indeed been a number of questions. There is a commitment from the Secretary of State to come up with a detailed letter on a number of concrete points. I think that is also the time to take up the debate further. Since this is an important moment, I think it would be a good idea to bring forward a number of points at this stage and to submit a number of motions to the Chamber. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas Aruba, Bonaire and Curaçao are increasingly confronted with Venezuelan refugees and there are serious concerns as to whether local communities are able to meet the obligations arising from international legal standards;]] [[Whereas Venezuelan refugees are restricted in access to health care, basic services such as food, shelter and hygiene and legal assistance;]] [[whereas the focus of the local approach at present is on return;]] [[calls on the Government, together with the countries, to provide adequate temporary protection for fled Venezuelans and to ensure access to basic facilities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Özütok. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29653-50]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u171	I understand that GroenLinks has now prepared three motions. It is Mrs Özütok's right to submit them. But I was wondering if GroenLinks couldn't wait. We're getting information. In this debate, I have received no information, nothing, about anything. We'll get a letter soon. Then we'll talk more about it. Is it necessary, then, to table these motions now? Isn't it much more convenient to wait for motions until we've really finished the debate? Otherwise it is a bit of an intermediate position and I do not really know what to vote on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u172	I understand where Mr Van Raak is going with this. But I think it is essential to table these motions so that it is clear in what direction my group is thinking. So I think it's important to file them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u173	You have two more motions. How big are they about?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u174	Not that big.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u175	You've got 11 seconds, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u176	I just had an interruption, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u177	That doesn't count. So you have 11 seconds. I don't know how you're gonna do it, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u178	Then I'll hold my motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u179	No. I don't want to stand in your way, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u180	You do that a little bit, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u181	...I'm just giving you the time. Well, if you don't, you're gonna read me another one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u182	Okay. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the countries of Curaçao and Aruba lack a socio-economic infrastructure to accommodate the increasing number of Venezuelan refugees, with consequences for local support for reception and assistance to this vulnerable group;]] [[calls on the Government to consult with Curaçao and Aruba on how to contribute to the strengthening of the socio-economic infrastructure and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Özütok. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29653-51]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u183	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Dam on behalf of the CDA. How many motions do you have?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u184	Zero.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u185	Okay. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u186	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for the answers. I think I've heard some things tonight. I think it is very important that there is good consultation between the government of the Netherlands and the governments of Curaçao and Aruba. I actually only have one request to the Secretary of State. He told us he was going to send us another letter with the necessary information. I'd really like to see a deadline attached to that, so if he can tell us when we have that letter. I learned from my CDA group that you should always ask. With that addition, I think the Secretary of State is quite receptive to giving an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u187	You don't have to make a motion on that. You're right about that. Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Bosman on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u188	One minute and twenty seconds? Two minutes, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u189	No. A third.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u190	Okay. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for replying. I always find it special that, when we talk about problems and about people and when I talk about the Statute and about responsibilities, it is said that we should separate them. But the problem that arises in the Kingdom and in the countries is because we do not have a clear idea of where these responsibilities lie. I'll keep repeating it. I keep repeating it, because that is the essence, the basis of the problem we are in. Who's responsible where and when? And who are we talking to? As long as that discussion is not clear, I will continue to do so. Says "the guarantee function." That sounds nice, but when it says "human rights," it doesn't mean that the guarantee function can or can be used automatically. For the use of the guarantee function: there must be no more redres, there must be no more possibility. We had a very nice debate with the then Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, Donner. He said: if you threaten the guarantee function and it happens, did you use the guarantee function? Maybe. Maybe not. That's the business that's going on. So "human rights" does not automatically mean "the guarantee function," because it is still the responsibility of the countries themselves. Finally, Mr President. I may have mentioned it sideways, but are visas and possibly electronic admissions also looked at from the Netherlands? Has that been discussed with the Foreign Minister? So I too am a bit on slippery ice. But maybe the Secretary of State can go into that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u191	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Drost on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u192	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by emphasising that we are in favour of maintaining equal relations with the countries of the Kingdom and also for help where it is needed, and that we also distinguish a special responsibility from the Netherlands and welcome the positive attitude of the Secretary of State, in his own words. On the question that was still open, I had taken two motions. I'm not filing one. It was about working towards correcting the treaties. I will leave it for a moment, because the answer was sufficient for now as far as I am concerned. I'll file the other motion in a minute. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Notes that several human rights organisations criticise the return of Venezuelan refugees recognised by the UNHCR by Curaçao;]] [[Whereas the return of refugees to Venezuela does not comply with the European Convention on Human Rights signed by the Kingdom of the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government to urge Curaçao to stop sending refugees back to Venezuela immediately, at least until the alien chain has been set up in accordance with internationally applicable standards,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Drost. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29653-52]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u193	That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u194	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr De Graaf on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u195	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Not for nothing have we talked about tackling root causes. How wonderful it would be if free elections could be held in Venezuela as soon as possible and the people could opt for freedom. It would be nice if they could opt for non-encapsulated in imposed group thinking. Any group thinking is, of course, not good by definition, but that is entirely true of the imposed group thinking of collectivism as it happens in socialist countries. It would be nice if they chose individual development, individual freedom and thus once again could create happiness for themselves and especially for their descendants. Wouldn't that be nice, Mr. Chairman? Oh, that'd be lovely! Government is forward-looking and I would like to help the Secretary of State, whom I thank for his first-term answers. The Secretary of State indicated so many words that there is no Caribbean escape route yet. But if the people of Venezuela do not choose to fight for freedom soon enough, I fear they will. That is why I would like to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting the flight from Venezuelans to, among others, Curaçao and Aruba;]] [[having regard to the responsibility of Curaçao, Aruba and other countries in the region;]] [[considers that the Netherlands should not include Venezuelans as a result of a possible Caribbean crisis route;]] [[calls on the Government not to grant any Venezuelan residence status,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr De Graaf and Mr Fritsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29653-53]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u196	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u197	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A number of questions have been put to me and four motions have been tabled which I will comment on. First of all, Mrs Diertens's comment or criticism of the coordinating role of the Secretary of State: a little bit more should be done. There is still a difference between coordination and ministerial responsibility, which is why I put it away at the beginning. I coordinate, you may assume, but I am not here to answer for all the ministries. What I'm doing is trying to inform you as well as possible about what's going on. At the same time, we are now and then in the domain of colleagues. I would also ask you to understand that, if there are really specific circumstances, there are more than one person in office who is invited; this is often the case in the Chamber. I guess this wasn't so bad right now, but I can't always do that. I think I tried that as best I could today. Behind the scenes, you can count on me to coordinate. We do the same with other departments. Mr Van Raak would have preferred the letter before the debate, but that is a bit difficult because that question was asked only in the debate. I don't have a vision to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u198	I was talking about the requests of the countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u199	Oh, well. I figured that's a little special. That letter's coming. A number of things have been added to this by now, I would also like to say to Mr Van Dam. He was careful at the time and knows that you should put a deadline on it. As I would like to keep what I promise, I would like to set the deadline of mid-May. If it comes sooner, it'll come sooner. That is because a number of things need to be sorted out in the countries. Then there is Mr Bosman's question on visas. That's what the countries are in contact with the State Department. There's nothing new to report right now. Ideas are sometimes suggested as ways of raising thresholds, but they are not waterproof either. Should this result in new cases, I assume that the Foreign Minister will inform you. Then there's the motions. In the Özütok motion to item No. 50 the government is invited to provide adequate temporary protection with the countries and to guarantee access to basic services. The operative part presupposes a kind of common responsibility that is not there. It is sympathetic, but this is really not in line with the debate we have had on this subject before. We offer assistance on request, you will receive the letters from it, but I must advise against this motion, formulated in this way. Then there is Mrs Özütok's second motion, on item No. 51. It invites the Government to consult with Curaçao and Aruba on how to contribute to the strengthening of socio-economic infrastructure and to inform the Court of Justice accordingly. This is already in motion. Prime Minister Rhuggenaath and Prime Minister Rutte have recently signed a cooperation agreement. This is exactly what we are doing, so I could judge Chamber, but I can also say that it is unnecessary, because it is already happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u200	Needless to say, and that means judgment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u201	I know what it means, Mr. Chairman. If I'm very strict, it's unnecessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u202	Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u203	Yeah, so dissuade it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u204	Mrs Özütok, that is actually the assessment framework that we have agreed on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u205	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On the first motion, the Secretary of State says he's having trouble with the operative part. I'm willing to change that, and I'm going to hold on to that motion for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u206	At the request of Mrs Özütok, I propose her motion (29653, No. 50). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u207	Then I still owe an answer to Mr Drost, I just changed my mind. I am not familiar with a situation in which people who would be entitled to asylum are returned. In fact, the criticism is expressed that the procedure is not working properly. No court decisions or cases have yet been brought to support this. If I do not recognize that in this way, I cannot agree with the first observation of your motion. It says that there is criticism, and I have taken note of that, but also that recognised Venezuelan refugees would be returned. I do not agree with that. It is true that, if there is individual review and you have the right to asylum, you can stay. If you don't have the right to asylum, you have to go back in principle. Depending on the situation, it will be examined whether that is immediate or later. That's why I have to discourage the motion. For the last motion, that of Mr De Graaf and Mr Fritsma, which states that the Netherlands should not take up Venezuelans as a result of a possible Caribbean crisis route, an individual review is taking place for anyone who reports to the Netherlands with a request for asylum. So if a Venezuelan would report directly to the Netherlands with a request for asylum and that request would be granted, then someone would receive asylum. If not, then someone like that has to go back. So I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u208	Mr. Chairman. I would like to ask the Secretary of State: go into those reports from the human rights organisations in the letter you are sending. That's mid-May. In the meantime, and that's what the motion is about, there may be degrading circumstances. There's an example in one of those reports. This is about a journalist who has been granted refugee status by the UN. It may not be officially recognised in Curaçao, but that is the situation. And that is not recognized as a refugee in Curaçao. Those are the situations we're talking about here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u209	To this end, the country will decide whether or not to grant asylum status. Look, I mentioned earlier in the debate that you can never completely rule out the fact that things have not gone well in a procedure. We want to avoid that, of course, by providing this assistance. If so, the court proceedings are open. I don't want to go in there. However, I will stick to the judgment on this motion, as it has now been formulated, namely that I must discourage it, precisely because of the first observation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u210	Mr Drost, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u211	In the letter he is going to send to us, would the Secretary of State please comment on the two reports we have received from the human rights organisations?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u212	In itself, I would like to do so, with the remark that we are not going to correspond to individual cases. In general, however, I would like to make a commitment. I forgot one more question, Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Raak had asked why there are fewer problems in Bonaire than in Aruba and Curaçao. It's a smaller society with a greater chance of being discovered as illegal. There is also less employment and less a circuit in which people can quickly find shelter. It's also a little further away, the crossing is a little more dangerous. Eventually, you could argue that Bonaire is less attractive to people who seek refuge elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u213	Thank you. That concludes this debate. I would like to thank the Secretary of State, the Members of Parliament, in particular the Presidents of the States of Aruba and the States of Curaçao, the Member States of Aruba and the Registrar of the States of Aruba, and everyone who has followed this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u214	And the authorized ministers!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u215	That one, too, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-29.u216	We shall vote on the motions tabled next Thursday, I think. For now, I'm closing the sitting.
