ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-12.u1	A warm word of welcome to the Minister. I'm glad you're back with us. This VAO has four participants, but only two people will speak. The first is therefore 50% of the speakers, Mr Kerstens. I'd be happy to give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-12.u2	Thank you, Mr President. The pgb allows people to keep the direction of their own lives longer, and to stand in the middle of life instead of, for example, being in an institution. But there are more and more signs that the rate of so-called informal care makes it increasingly difficult for pgb holders to find and hold on to good people for this care. This will put pressure on that own direction and also the ability to stay in the middle of life. I think we shouldn't want that, which is why I have two short motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the pgb enables people to maintain maximum control over their lives;]] [[Considering, for example, that the rate of informal care (in relation to the high staff shortage in the sector) is becoming increasingly difficult to find and retain expert staff for specialised work as they increasingly opt for, for example, self-employment elsewhere in care where they can impose higher rates;]] [[Whereas it would be a bad thing for budget holders not to be able to use their pgb and lose the direction mentioned above;]] [[calls on the Government to examine whether and to what extent the latter may be at issue and to avoid, by means of an affirmative reply, an increase in the rate of informal care or otherwise,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Christmas. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25657-315]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-12.u3	Let me now move on to my second and final motion. I've done 50% of my motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the pgb enables people to maintain maximum control over their lives;]] [[noting that, unlike other rates, the rate for informal care has not been indexed for several years;]] [[Considering that there is no objective justification for this and that, in this way, the frozen rate has become increasingly tight for a long time when it comes to the question of whether a budget holder can find and hold employees and retain them in this way;]] [[calls on the Government to index the rate for informal care, if possible with retroactive effect,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Christmas. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25657-316]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-12.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for the commitments he made at the AO Pgb, but I do have two additional questions. One of the questions is about costs. The Minister indicated that the pgb 2.0 system, including the costs for the SVB, would have a budget coming our way after the spring note decision-making. Is it perhaps also possible to provide insight into the impact of this on the implementation costs of municipalities? I don't know if they're there, but if they're there, I hope they can be taken. Mr. Chairman. My second question concerns the log-in of budget holders. We understand that pgb budget holders are obliged to log in via DigiD. The costs of each login are currently €0.14. Radboud University has developed an app called IRMA. Technically, this app appears to be as safe as DigiD, but this app is cheaper. Is it possible to investigate whether the IRMA app can be offered as an alternative to DigiD when logging in? Healthcare insurer VGZ is already doing this. That might be a good way to cut costs. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-12.u5	Thank you. So far. Can the Minister give an answer? He wants to wait until he sees the motions himself. I think that's understandable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-12.u6	Mr President, I would like to conclude the two motions with your approval and then turn to the two questions. I'll start with the motion in part No. 315 by Mr Kerstens. He is touching on a part of the general consultation that was not the least complex part. There was a Babylonian confusion about tariffs and their indexation, and about how max rates have been set for informal and formal care. In addition, it was about pgb budgets and how they are or are not indexed in the different laws. At that time, I promised to send the Chamber a clear letter on this matter with a month or two. Mr Kerstens is actually ahead of the clear letter with his motions. In the motion in part No. 315 he says that the rate for informal care should be increased. In the motion in part No. 316 he says that the rate for informal care should be indexed. I'm going to dissuade them both, because I think it's a good idea to have a thorough debate on exactly what's going on with prices and budgets. An example of why I tabled the motion in part No. 315 is that it states that it is "increasingly difficult to find expert staff for specialised work'. However, it seems to be an informal tariff. That's odd, because you'd think expert employees who perform specialized work are formal employees. The formal rate is set at max €63 per hour. You could earn an annual wage of €131,000. I think we should not want to increase that. It is not about informal rates, because it is about expert staff with specialised work. But even if it were about such employees, the informal rate in the Wlz is set at €20. And with that you can earn almost twice wml on an annual basis. I do not think that is the main issue there either. In short, should we not have a very thorough debate on this before we draw this kind of conclusions?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-12.u7	They are not even my conclusions, they are the conclusions of the pgb-holders. They seem to be experiencing this in the flesh. The minister just referred to his crystal clear letter. It can be quite clear in the sense of: I will explain to you once again what the difference is between formal and informal rates. Convenient, but that's not what I need most. In the six weeks he has left to send that letter to the Chamber, would the Minister light up his light or would he like to carry out a very tiny investigation? That research could show that there are indeed expert staff who are not yet qualified employees who have to work at that lower informal rate. It can also show whether people are actually experiencing problems and getting into trouble. That's what I'm talking about, and I think the Minister's worth a sweet thing. We do not want that pgb not to take shape for the people we all want to give that own direction. I think that goes for all of us here and also for a lot of people who can't be here tonight. So my question is: can this letter be examined, so that the results show whether it is a problem and whether there are people under that informal rate, who are skilled but not qualified? Then we can have that debate, say, with a few more arguments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-12.u8	That is how I understood, quite frankly, my commitment to you. In my opinion, you and your colleagues have said in general consultation: okay, but if that letter is written, please take with you the concerns of Per Recht and MantelzorgNL. This was the reason to talk about tariffs in the AO Pgb. I am happy to do so, and we will also ask where these concerns are and where they come across them. That is without prejudice to the fact that I am not sure if I can solve them, because I do want to test whether it is real. Again, I just mentioned the rate for informal care and that is €20. That is an annual salary of over €40,000 and that is still almost twice wml. That is not a small amount for an informal rate. Municipalities are of course allowed to set their own informal rates, but we have also laid a ground in them with the Wml. In short, I would think it hasn't been taken care of at all. At the same time, of course, it is also true that we are not being told for nothing that concerns us. So I would like to talk to MantelzorgNL and Per Recht to take good note of their concerns and to include them in the letter, so that we can indeed have that conversation on the basis of good arguments and facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-12.u9	Short, finalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-12.u10	That's taking my worries a little away. There is no need to promote anyone, because it doesn't have to be an extensive investigation under almost 400 municipalities into the signals we hear. These signals are that these informal rates will also be put under pressure, as more and more municipalities go to that minimum legal wage. You can, of course, discuss whether those rates are high or low.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-12.u11	Very good. Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-12.u12	I think those are aspects that make the debate, which we are going to have, a little clearer. It's up to the Minister to see if he's up to it or not. I think, by the way, that this weekend I am going to sleep on the continuation of my two motions, because we are going to have that debate, or rather 'that conversation', about how we are going to solve the real problem in any case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-12.u13	Sure, fine. I see they're nodding in the sofas. So I think it would be fine to have that conversation with the municipalities and to include it in the letter. With regard to the holding of motions: that is of course your choice. I had just advised them not to, but of course you are entirely responsible for whether or not you put them to the vote. Then there are Mr Slootweg's two questions. The first question concerned the implementation costs of municipalities. What these implementation costs are going to be will, of course, be seen in the light of the experiences with the predecessors. The execution costs of the SVB will be included in the cost letter, which I promised you. I would have liked to have done this earlier, but there was no clear understanding of it before. There will therefore be a separate letter about the SVB, or actually the introduction of pgb 2.0. As far as implementation is concerned, I have, of course, indicated that the implementation costs are borne by the far-reaching party. General costs and costs for the government are of course borne by us; for example, we are talking about the development of the state. We have to make an appointment with the performers about the management costs. In addition, it concerns the implementation costs of the different providers. Of course, they wear them themselves. We gain insight into these costs by working with the forerunners. Then there's the DigiD issue. People who are now budget holders, login to pgb 2.0 via DigiD. That's just in line with government policy. Of course, that state policy applies to all forms of secure logging in when you are dealing with a public service. Whether it's about your passport, about your driver's license or about logging in to the IRS, you're always doing it with DigiD. The ruler responsible for this is my colleague from the Interior. In the Chamber is currently the Digital Government Act. It shall identify means of logging in. That is therefore the prime responsibility of the Minister of the Interior. The Home Office, I understand, is running for tender, or admission, of private funds. Then perhaps IRMA, the solution you mentioned, could participate. Of course, I cannot anticipate that, not only because it is not my portfolio, but also because it will simply be an invitation to tender, an open tender, I have understood, in which any initiative on its own can participate. So I can't make an exception to the state line for pgb 2.0 separately.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-12.u14	Shortly, Mr. Slootweg, because I want to move on to the next debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-12.u15	I understand. I do not know whether that consultation on the digital log-in possibilities between VWS and Home Affairs, between the two ministers, is taking place. But VGZ currently has experience with that IRMA app. Perhaps it would be wise to share this kind of experience. A lot of insured people from VGZ already use that IRMA app. If you're a budget holder, it's easy to use that app when you log in. I would like to ask whether results or consequences of these could perhaps be shared with the Home Office once.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-12.u16	Yet again in all precision: pgb 2.0 is now of course being developed in a government environment. The government always has only one digital way to log in, at least right now. This may change in the future, but at the moment there is only one way. Can I also let BZK know success experiences that an insurer has? Of course I could do that, but I myself do not feel the enormous need to want something else, or to want an exception, in relation to the state policy. VGZ can do that, because VGZ is not a government. But the pgb system is being developed in a government environment. That is why we really have to follow the line of government.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-12.u17	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-12.u18	I conclude that the Minister is charmingly pointing this out to the Minister for the Interior.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-12.u19	That's what I meant to say, yeah. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-12.u20	He doesn't need a lot of words. I note, then, that this debate is over.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-17-tweedekamer-12.u21	Two motions have been tabled. The petitioner is considering holding them both. That would mean that they wouldn't be in the mood on Tuesday; otherwise they would. This is the hardest conclusion we have come to. The Guardian of Chambers is called Irma.... is very proud that this app is named after her, by the way. And rightly so.
