ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-5.u1	Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mr Van Raak on behalf of the SP for his questions to the Deputy Prime Minister, who is replacing the Prime Minister, on the leaking of plans for Princess Day.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-5.u2	2 billion for the housing market, 3 billion for burden relief and an investment fund of 50 billion: sharing plans for Princess Day are back on track. And how does that work? Members of Parliament are being called to comment, but we can't, because we don't have those plans. We don't even know if it's true. Why is the cabinet deliberately putting the Chamber out of play? Why does the Cabinet choose to make it impossible for us to work? And then I'm gonna assume that all those leaks are true, those strategic leaks. But let's say it's not true, let's say the King isn't going to tell us on Prince's Day that there's going to be an investment fund of 50 billion. Then the cabinet not only fooled the Chamber but also the voters. Then the voters get all kinds of stories, promises that are not made. What does the Minister think does that do with confidence in politics? If something's good enough to send to the paper, it's good enough to send to the Chamber. And then the Prime Minister says, "No, you can't, because then the King sits in his shirt with Prince's Day at the throne speech, because then he's all reading old news. If that is why plans cannot be sent to the Chamber, why can they be sent to the newspaper? If the King doesn't have to sit in his shirt with Prince's Day, why does the Cabinet throw his clothes out so roughly? I have three questions. Why does the Cabinet have no respect for the Chamber? Why does the cabinet have no respect for the voters? Why does the Cabinet have no respect for our King?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-5.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-5.u4	Mr President, thank you. I fully understand Mr Van Raak's irritation when it comes to possible plans around Prince's Day. It is not the first time that Mr Van Raak has drawn attention to this; it has happened in other years and Mr Van Raak has also drawn attention to this in written questions. The Prime Minister also replied to these questions in writing yesterday. The point is this. As annoying and as disturbing and disturbing as it may be, it is on its way to the Prinsjesdag decision-making, that decision-making has not yet been completed. There is therefore no budgetary item in this respect either. The decision-making process has not been completed. I cannot go into stories in the newspaper, especially if they are placed as stories that may be part of the Prinsjesdag decision-making, because it has been agreed between the Chamber and the Cabinet at regular intervals that the information is shared in the direction of the Chamber. We have laid down Princess Day, the third Tuesday of September, both constitutionally and also in the Compatibility Act and the moment when the Cabinet informs the Chamber about next year's plans. So that is also the case this year. We also have the embargo regime, which ensures that the information position of the Chamber is respected so that people can get to grips with the general political considerations. Those are the arrangements as they were made. That's what the Cabinet attaches to. That is why we also share the irritation that Mr Van Raak is putting forward. And I'd like to leave it at that for now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-5.u5	It's kind of embarrassing how the minister's standing here lying, because he's just sending those plans to the newspaper. Last year, the Prime Minister said it's not civil servants leaking. So that means there are politicians leaking. Every leak has a fingerprint. We know which ministry it comes from and we know which politician it comes from. Why doesn't the Minister investigate? I have also heard that the plans are not being sent to the Chamber, but it appears that some Members of Parliament will get the proposals. Is it true that the Chamber is not informed, but some MPs are? Of course, they can leak again. I don't know if the Minister Who is the Mol? know that television programme. To prevent leaks, there's a big fine on leaks, and it works. This television programme succeeds in preventing leaks. Then it is embarrassing that the Dutch Government cannot prevent that. I'd like to ask another question about whistleblowers at ministries. When people rightly report social abuses, they act hard. Then there's an investigation, and then they're prosecuted. But if communication workers on behalf of politicians play nicely and leak strategically, then there is no investigation. Then there will be no prosecution. How can the Minister explain this double morale in politics?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-5.u6	Once again, I understand Mr Van Raak's irritation, but he also uses very big words.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-5.u7	Oh, yeah, here's how it's gonna be.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-5.u8	I have no clue as to where pieces in the newspaper or sources of documents come from in the newspaper or in what corner we should look for them. That also makes it complicated to act against it. That's one. Two: as I said, there can be no budgetary documents because of the simple fact that the decision-making on these budget items has not yet been completed in the cabinet. At the moment, the Council of State is considering the government's plans. The opinions of the Council of State are, of course, involved in the decision-making process. This can lead to a reaction, but also to the adaptation of plans. In short, there are no budgetary items yet. That's two. So however much we share the irritation, I can only say that we do things as agreed. To do justice to the tradition of Prinsjesdag, we are committed to announcing the plans on the third Tuesday. These are the government's plans; these are the budgets that the cabinet sends to the Chamber. In order to ensure the equal information position of MPs, the embargo regime has been in place for many years. This means that you will get the pieces on Friday, so that you can all come to the fore, both for an initial response to the plans for Princess Day and for the General Political Reviews.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-5.u9	Finally, Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-5.u10	Yes. The minister makes it impossible for the Chamber to work, lies to the voters and puts the King in his shirt. It's all happening consciously, and it's all happening strategically. All the Minister does is complain about the tone of a Member of Parliament. I'm embarrassed. Either the cabinet will act against the politicians who have ordered this information to be leaked or the cabinet will not, but that makes the cabinet and this minister co-responsible for those leaks. It is either performance or it is up to this Chamber to see how we can stop this immoral behavior at the top of our politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-5.u11	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-5.u12	I have nothing to add to the answer I have given.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-5.u13	That's what I was afraid of.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-5.u14	Thank you. That brings us to the end of this Question Time. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments. After that, we will continue with the regulation of work.
