ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u1	The next item is the Amendment to the Medicinal Products Price Act in connection with an adaptation of the analogue countries (35137).
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u2	As the first speaker on the side of the Chamber, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Ploumen of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Savings can be found in healthcare. That's the good news. This can be done, for example, in the case of medicines. These savings can be achieved by amending the Pharmaceutical Prices Act and by recalculating the pharmaceutical reimbursement system. We have called for both speeches on a number of occasions, and we had hoped that the Minister would follow us in that. But unfortunately, the Minister now chooses a beep, beep, beep, tiny change. What's he doing? It replaces Germany as an analogue country by Norway. Mr. Chairman. The note following the report states that the expansion of analogue countries will result in less price reductions than the current proposal to replace Germany with Norway. But even if the Norwegian method of calculation is taken over, the fall in prices will certainly be much higher. That is why I have tabled an amendment to introduce the Norwegian system with the Norwegian method of calculation. If other groups do not think that additional savings are desirable, which I really cannot imagine, I see Mr Mulder sitting there, and I think it would be a good idea for him to vote on a second amendment, so that at least in the four proposed analogue countries, the average price of the lowest two countries can be taken as the maximum price. I would actually like to ask the Minister if he can tell us what additional savings this will bring. Mr. Chairman. I'm going from technique to political content. The argument put forward by the Minister not to take over the Norwegian system is that a manufacturer would not launch a new product in the Netherlands or perhaps take a means off the Dutch market. That argument is often used, but I have never really seen any support for it. It's all about vague threats. A negative price spiral can arise, but apparently no one can prove that this is actually going to happen. In addition, a relatively fast admission policy exists in the Netherlands. Manufacturers use the Netherlands as one of the first countries to market new medicines for a reason. That is why we are very much in favour of this. That's not gonna change anything by the Drug Prices Act. So the Netherlands remains attractive, is my position, because marketing means making money. In response to a question from D66, the Minister says the following. I quote the Minister: 'Because the effects on the timely availability of medicinal products depend on the behaviour of manufacturers, it is not possible to estimate in advance for which specific medicinal products this risk exists and therefore whether alternatives are available for these products'. The behaviour of manufacturers can therefore not be estimated, but the Minister does not opt for additional savings, because there is a theoretical chance that funds will be placed on the market later or withdrawn from the market. But the chances of that not happening are the same, because the Minister does not know. How many manufacturers have already announced to take their means off the market? I would like to ask the Minister what manufacturers and what means are involved. Or is it just the Innovative Medicines Association that is representing its own interests and bringing this story into the world? Suppose a manufacturer took a means off the market. Then it can still be imported through parallel imports, I ask the Minister. The registration will continue. The Minister himself states in the note on the report that he is not at all concerned about potential drug shortages due to declining parallel imports. The market in Europe is still in such a way that the introduction of a medicinal product is very profitable. So we have no concern at all about that. I would still like to hear the Minister on this matter. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is used as a reference in 15 countries. Norway is used by six countries. If the Netherlands also takes Norway as an analogue country, then that number will be seven. Surely the expected fall in prices for the use of ten analogue countries will not result in a massive fall in prices in the 15 countries using the Netherlands as a reference? Indeed, the average price level is similar to that of the four analogue countries currently used. So it seems that, on the basis of threats and vague predictions, we are failing to save money where it is possible. And that's actually pretty serious. In response to a question from the SP Group, the Minister himself says that when the Norwegian model was introduced in the Netherlands, the average price level for spécialités would be around the level of Norway, which is 9% to 13% lower than it is today. The proposed amendment reduces prices by 8%, and the difference in savings is somewhere between EUR 50 million and EUR 200 million. That's big money; you could put the pill and any other contraceptive in the package. Can the Minister justify just dropping that money, just to put it at home? Then there is the argument of the higher administrative burden. With Farmatec's infrastructure, the technology available and the experience gained, it is not expected that the implementation costs for a calculation that will now only include six additional countries will lead to much higher implementation costs. I cannot imagine that converting the currency of a few countries would lead to higher implementation costs. Finally, I would like to make two comments. Strategic behaviour of manufacturers can always be expected with a price reference system. What is the Minister going to do at European level to sit on this and take timely action against it? Is he already talking about it with other European Member States, for example? Germany is replaced because it has relatively high list prices, but a year after the introduction of a medicinal product there is a negotiation and much lower prices come out. How much lower are the final prices in Germany? And what does the comparison between the German system and our law look like? Mr. Chairman. I assume that we are all aware that costs need to be saved wherever possible, and that we all realise that we should not let threats from the pharmaceutical industry dictate the law. This is our chance to turn the tables. Let us introduce the Norwegian system in the Netherlands and then define very precisely what medicines are being withdrawn from the market, what new products are not being marketed here or much later, what adverse effects such a change would have on patients, how these adverse effects can be absorbed in another way and how this relates to a possible lower premium. And if so...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u4	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u5	Finish your sentence, Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u6	Yes. If it is true that all these vague assumptions are being made, then I would like to say that to Mr Rutte, who is really the first to abolish the Norwegian system and to achieve cost savings in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u7	It all sounds so beautiful, that story of Mrs Ploumen: do just like Norway and... huppakee. 200 million extra in the wallet. In fact, however, it is proposing an experiment in which a great many patients are deprived of new innovative medicines. And then we'd have to make a new law change to make it work. That's irresponsible, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u8	I'd like to turn it around. There is no evidence that such an undesirable situation will arise. There is a threat to that and there are allusions to it, but no one can give me any indication that that is really going to happen. In fact, the Minister says honestly and openly, and that is to be praised: it can happen but it cannot happen; it cannot happen, but it can happen. My proposal would therefore not be based solely on vague threats and knowing that there are alternative routes, such as parallel imports, to proceed with this change. I am genuinely convinced, and perhaps that is the real answer to Mr Rutte's question, that these effects will not occur. If I thought there was a better chance of them performing than not performing, I would have kept another story here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u9	At least that's a fair answer. I can only conclude that Mrs Ploumen is genuinely betting on the back of some patients who may be dependent on these medicines. Of course, we will all have to weigh it down, but I do not think this is entirely justified.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u10	Each group will have to make its own weighting. As I said, there is no concrete, hard evidence that these effects will occur. In addition, there are alternatives, should these effects occur. But we don't expect that. I would like to remind Mr Rutte that, of course, there will be a time when, as a representative of the people, we must say to the pharmaceutical industry that we are not on a leash. In my opinion, the VVD Group now finds people over multinationals! It's fine that money is made with good ideas, but it's not okay if that comes up. I'll just use the same words as Mr Rutte.. by asking for such high prices that it's ultimately about patients' backs. We must, of course, find a balance there. I think I've found that balance and I feel confident and sure enough to make that proposal. Once again, I would have dressed that proposal differently here. Then I'll get to my last sentences. They are perfectly in line with what I just concluded my reply to Mr Rutte. Today is the day that we can show that we are not intimidated by the threats of industry. We can show that we can save a lot of money to ensure the accessibility of medicines, of as many medicines as possible, for all those who need them. I am counting on the support of my colleagues, because it seems to me to be a very sensible intention of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u11	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Van Gerven of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u12	Mr. Chairman. The debate on medicines is at the centre of interest. We hear poignant stories about patients who, sometimes very young, have no access to life-saving medication on arbitrary grounds. We hear stories about contaminated medications, non-liverable medications and expensive medications. The Minister is very closely involved in that discussion. He assures us time and time again: I do everything in my power to solve problems. Of course he deserves appreciation for trying, but it's not nearly enough. Because it's simpler than the Minister's making us appear. When it comes to high drug prices, the answer is: curb the power of Big Pharma. But the Minister doesn't want to do that. It's his political choice. He can do a lot more than he does, but he doesn't want to. Let him say that it is a political choice. The pharmaceutical market is not a market like any other. The consumer does not decide the use himself. That's basically what the doctor does. The patient has nothing to say about the price either. Luckily, we have a law on drug prices. It was also produced under the influence of the SP in the 1990s. The Pharmaceutical Prices Act plays an important role in limiting the prices of spécialités, as new medicines often come onto the market with a high price due to patents and monopoly positions of pharmaceuticals. The maximum prices laid down in the Medicines Awards Act play a role in the negotiation of the final price. What do we see on the other side? We see a care premium that rises every year. The own risk is now €385. That is not being reduced, whereas it should actually be abolished. For chronically ill, that's a liability. On top of that, this cabinet has also capped its own contribution to medicines at €250. What is the impact of the latter on the compensation schemes that manufacturers have used for this? Can the Minister say anything about this? Do they still exist or are they no longer offered? Because a common form of care avoidance is not to pick up drugs from the pharmacy. The cost of care increases every year. This government is cutting back on its own unfair risk and removing medicines from the package. Why, I strongly ask the Minister. Why doesn't he make a sharper law on drug prices? It's possible. Because every year public money in the order of 1 billion euros disappears in the pockets of Big Pharma and its shareholders. The Minister's proposal is an improvement on the current situation, but the system is not being properly examined and the government is leaving great opportunities. Because the way in which we currently set maximum prices for medicines is not representative. At the time of the introduction of the Drug Prices Act, it was stated that the selected analogue countries represent 60% of the EU population and account for 60% of drug use. Countries accounted for 70% of European pharmaceutical production and the other EU Member States would be less comparable in terms of prosperity, social insurance systems and culture to the Netherlands. Times have changed. Twenty years after the date, the share of the total EU population and the production share of the current analogue countries decreased to around 44% and 46% respectively. And there are more countries that resemble the Netherlands in terms of average life expectancy and per capita health expenditure, especially the Scandinavian. Amendments are therefore desirable. As I said, the Minister is taking a step in the right direction, but it is not enough. Indeed, with the countries that would be added to the current analogue countries via the Norwegian model, we are more in line, let us say, with the original situation and the objective of the Drug Prices Act. In addition to Belgium, Germany, France and the United Kingdom, these would be Denmark, Finland, Ireland, Norway, Austria and Sweden. In his argument, the Minister states that the purpose of the Pharmaceutical Prices Act is not so much to reduce costs, even though it is of course included. But we need to get a little more to the European average, let me put it this way. But when the pharmaceutical price law was discussed in 1996 and prices were 30% above the European average, structural control of health costs was indeed discussed, including in order to ensure access to care in the future and the availability of medicines at reasonable prices in order to promote public health. That was the original purpose of the law. But will it be sufficiently respected if the country of Germany is replaced by Norway? The Minister says that this generates 160 million extra-murality on an annual basis. Next, the modernisation of the pharmaceutical reimbursement system should yield 140 million. The question is whether the latter will succeed. I still have to see that the pharmaceutical reimbursement system provides that amount without harming the patient. That is, of course, an express wish that the SP Group has. If we are going to re-evaluate and adapt the pharmaceutical reimbursement system, this should not lead to more of our own contributions for the patients, because in any case, the patient will be drowned. Looking at history, I mention 28 June 2012. That was almost seven years ago the day after. Then the Norwegian model came up for the first time in Parliamentary questions. As is well known, my group supports the introduction of the Norwegian model in the Netherlands, as this will save much more costs. I have also tabled an amendment to that effect, which de facto leads to that. Just like the Norwegian model: increasing the number of analogue countries and using the arithmetic average of prices in the three countries where the medicines are cheapest can save up to EUR 500 million on an annual basis. 500 million on an annual basis! What amounts, what amounts. If we were to apply that amendment, which I tabled, we would have no problems with the increase in the administrative burden. We only have to look at where the drug is cheapest, and that is the maximum price. That's one. In addition, the Minister states that the availability of medicines is at stake if we introduce the Norwegian model, because innovation is being inhibited and we are the last to join in the queue, because we would no longer have an interesting market. What does the Minister base this on? Where's that evidence? The pharmaceutical industry in the Netherlands makes 1 billion profits on an annual basis. 1 billion! If we were to adopt the Norwegian model, that would theoretically mean that this profit would fall to 800 million a year. That still means a huge profit for those pharmaceuticals. You don't think there's one pharmaceutical company that can make a profit selling drugs in the Netherlands that's gonna drop profits? I don't believe any of that. We've been talking about this since 2012. So if we had introduced that Norwegian model at the time, we could have saved billions. Seven years; that's seven times 500 million, 3.5 billion, minister. The Minister laughs a bit, but that is the calculation that has been made and which the Minister himself makes. So we have spent 3.5 billion on shareholders and the pharmaceutical industry in recent years, and that is because the Cabinets have simply not taken the step to introduce that Norwegian model. What did the Cabinet do? They can do that, take medicines out of the package: contraceptives, sleeping and tranquilizers, antacids, medicines to stop smoking. That has happened in the past. And in the past year there was the scandalous proposal to remove minerals, heavy paracetamol and vitamins from the package, which means that patients with certain special syndromes have now lost €800 extra on an annual basis above the monthly premium and at the top of their own risk. I'm asking the Minister to take another look at that. So in recent years we have given 3.5 billion to the industry, which was not necessary, but we leave, because we have removed certain medicines from the package, so patients today pay €800 extra on an annual basis. Isn't that unjust and unfair? Is the Minister not prepared to do something about this and, if he wants to leave the industry alone, to meet the patient on the other hand? The cabinet has its own contribution for medicines contained in the package, maxed out at €250. But who benefits from that? I understand that there are signs of this and the Minister has also said that it might be possible that this means that the fees that manufacturers sometimes give to patients will be abolished. That's right, I'm asking the Minister. Finally. The costs of health care are largely financed collectively and are therefore part of the collective burden. The cabinet plays an important role in controlling these costs if it can be done without at the expense of the people. Again, why doesn't the Minister do that? Why do patients pay a price, both financially and with their health, instead of addressing the pharmaceutical industry? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u13	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Ellemeet. She speaks for GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Higher profit margins than any other industry, medicines in a stranglehold, no transparency about price building: the pharmaceutical industry is not a healthy industry. The development of medicines should be in the service of patients, but too often it seems to be mainly about the interests of shareholders, about an industry that has developed a smart earning model that threatens over and over again: if you do not pay us the top prize, we will leave you in the cold. Mr. Chairman. You can deal with this dynamic in two ways. You're trying to adjust it a little bit, or you're really gonna take it. The Pharmaceutical Prices Act is a legal instrument that allows us to tackle the excesses of the pharmaceutical industry. This will maximize the prices of medicines. A number of analogue countries allow the ceiling to be set. The Minister chooses to exchange Germany for Norway of the four analogue countries with which the Netherlands works. Norway has lower prices than Germany, so in itself that is a step in the right direction. But to be honest, it's just a very small step, an ienymenia step. To begin with, the starting point of the Netherlands is not good enough. For the spécialités in particular, the average price level in the Netherlands is still above the European average. We really should take bigger steps. And we can. Together with the SP and the PvdA we have in our initiative note Big Pharma: not healthy! argued in favour of introducing the Norwegian model. My colleagues were talking about it as well. With the Norwegian model, we opt for a larger group of analogue countries, based on the average of the three countries with the lowest prices for our maximum prices. This will enable us to strive for a much lower European price level. It is precisely this that would be a sign of the solidarity which the Minister points out. Solidarity by working together with as many individual countries as possible towards the lowest possible prices for people who need these medicines as much as possible. Otherwise, the cabinet is suspecting that it is losing its ears to the pharmaceutical companies that are threatening to remove potentially life-saving medicines from the market. The minister says we can't do this because we're taking too many risks. Manufacturers may no longer serve us with medicines or even take existing medicines off the market. It is precisely because we ourselves are used by so many other European countries as an analogue country that our maximum prices are working very hard in Europe. That requires careful action, the Minister says. But I would argue exactly the opposite. It is precisely because we can make a difference and really adjust prices further down that we should. We must not allow ourselves to be held hostage by the threats of industry. GroenLinks is done with that. We need to change course. Mr. Chairman. I would therefore like to say to the Minister: be bold; limit the exorbitantly high profits of the manufacturers; show them that you mean business. You can count on the support of GroenLinks. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u15	Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to Mrs Van den Berg of the CDA. The fourth speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The growth of the pharmaceutical budget must be kept within limits, because every euro we spend too much on medicines that could have been cheap can no longer be spent on care that is needed elsewhere. Hospitals alone are already spending almost a tenth of the budget on medicines. That is an amount of 2 billion a year, and the growth of the budget is enormous at 9% a year. This leads to the displacement of care. And that's hard to digest, especially when you see how few transparent pharmaceuticals are often in understanding the real costs of developing and producing a medicine. At the same time, we must ensure that prices are not forced to fall too low. The problem of the occasional lack of availability with the cheapest medicines is well known. That is not what the bill we are discussing today is about, because the price of generics is not affected by a statutory price cap. But it is good to realise that if prices are pushed too far down, the availability of spécialités can also be at stake. For the CDA, we need to look for a balance sheet, so that care remains available as well as accessible and affordable for the whole of the Netherlands. The Minister is looking for this balance with this amendment of the Pharmaceutical Prices Act. In addition to this bill, the CDA believes that more action is needed, including at European level, to ensure that pharmaceutical companies take more social responsibility. A few weeks ago, I made some proposals in a general consultation and I know that the Minister and various other parties are also working on them. For example, the CDA, together with GroenLinks, proposed that expensive medicines should always be subject to research into the true quality and effectiveness of the medicine after it has been accepted in the basic package on the basis of the clinical trial. However, insofar as an amendment to the Pharmaceutical Awards Act can play a role, the Minister has found the right balance with this bill with regard to the CDA. In the written answer to our questions, the Minister has sufficiently substantiated that other systems that lead to higher price pressure, such as the Norwegian system, pose too many risks for the timely availability of medicines and for solidarity with poorer European countries. We will therefore not support the amendments tabled by PvdA, SP and DENK. I would ask the Minister whether he can reflect on the impact of these amendments, both on the availability of medicines in the Netherlands and on solidarity with poorer countries in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u17	I do not understand any of this solidarity with poorer countries in Europe. That's some bullshit. The lower the prices in the Netherlands, the more other countries would benefit. That is precisely what would be in favour of introducing the Norwegian model. However, my question is on which the CDA bases that the medicine system would block accessibility, quality and innovation if we had Norwegian prices. These prices are only a few percent lower than when we introduce the model proposed by the cabinet; of course it is big money, but percentage is not that bad. On what basis does the CDA base the statement that this would block accessibility, quality and innovation? That's not happening in Norway, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u18	Two things about this, first of all about solidarity. Mr Van Gerven knows that there are different prices within Europe and that manufacturers are also looking at them. The prices for the same medicine are different in Africa than in America or in Europe. There is a piece of international solidarity, but also solidarity between countries in Europe. Those who have a little more prosperity also pay a higher price in that sense. Then there is the second point that Mr Van Gerven raises: 'Why not the Norwegian system? It only saves a few percent." We believe that the Minister has shown convincingly that the Netherlands is also an analogue country for 15 other countries, that you are looking for a good balance and that you also take into account that in the Netherlands prices may be slightly higher than in poor countries of Europe. We believe that the Minister has explained this well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u19	I note that the CDA simply gives 200 million a year to the pharmaceutical industry and its shareholders, at the expense of the contributions we, as citizens, have to pay in the Netherlands, at the expense of the package. Let me remind you that it costs 40 million a year to bring back the heavy paracetamol, the vitamins and the minerals in the package. The CDA presents five times that amount to the pharmaceutical industry, each year, while we have a European market, a very large market. You do not think, I say to Mrs Van den Berg through the chairman, that Big Pharma would abandon the European market if price control were to be stronger there? That's not imaginable, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u20	Thank you. Mrs. Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u21	I do not think that the pharmaceutical industry is abandoning the European market, but there is a chance that it will leave the Dutch market. Countries such as Germany and France are large countries with much more power to negotiate them themselves. So yes, Mr. Van Gerven finds something. I notice that Mr. Van Gerven actually wants to experiment a bit to see whether or not the Dutch market is allowed. We believe that Dutch patients should also be eligible for new and innovative medicines in particular. For that, you need that good balance in prices.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u22	Thank you. Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u23	Mr. Chairman. It should be made clear that, as far as the CDA is concerned, the legislative proposal must not result in medicines being no longer available to Dutch patients. That's one side of the balance we're looking for. It is therefore important that the impact of this bill on availability be closely monitored. The KNMP has offered to contribute to the impact analysis and the monitor, and the Minister has indicated his intention to discuss this. Has that conversation taken place by now? And can the KNMP contribute? Because as a CDA, we think it's important that this industry involvement stays intact. Mr. Chairman. The other side of the balance sheet is the affordability of medicines. I have a few more questions for the Minister. As the analogue countries use a different type of currency, fluctuations in exchange rates also affect the maximum prices. For example, in the written replies, the Minister predicts that the decline in the exchange rate of the British pound in recent years has resulted in savings of EUR 200 million in the Netherlands. Maybe we can see a little light in the darker developments around the Brexit as far as we are concerned. On the other hand, this means that an exchange rate increase can also lead to unexpected price increases. Can the Minister provide an insight into what will happen in that case? Now, at spécialités, the pharmacy purchase price is often equal to the Wgp maximum price. Does the pharmacy purchase price normally increase directly if the Wgp maximum price increases? Or have prices been contractually fixed for that time, which means that a price increase resulting from a fluctuation in the exchange rate has less effect than a reduction in the maximum price? Mr. Chairman. The Minister writes that he is considering further amendments to the law, so that analogue countries can now be established by general measure of governance and react more quickly to undesirable consequences, e.g. by changing the exchange rate. Can the Minister indicate what undesirable consequences he might think of? Finally, Mr President. The Minister writes in his replies that if everything goes as planned, the law can enter into force on 15 December 2019, so that the new maximum prices can be set on 1 January 2020. How's that going? Is the adjustment of the necessary software still on track? And what about reading Norway's price list? Mr. Chairman. Care should be available and affordable for the whole of the Netherlands as well as accessible. This bill makes medicines more affordable without affecting availability. That is why the CDA strongly supports this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u24	Thank you. There is a question for you from Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u25	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to draw your attention to the question raised by Mr Van Gerven. In my own input, I said that there is a threat of all kinds of doom scenarios. Medicines would be more difficult to market, they might be withdrawn from the market or later on on the market. Does the colleague now have any specific indications for this? Does she know manufacturers who have done so or who intend to do so tomorrow?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u26	Manufacturers will certainly not report that in advance. But once again, we believe that the Minister has given convincing arguments for this. First of all, he took account of the size of the Netherlands. In this sense, the market position of the Netherlands is really different from, for example, a country such as Germany or France. Secondly, he has taken account of European solidarity. Countries with more prosperity also have a higher price than countries with less prosperity. Thirdly, the Netherlands as such is thus again the analogue country for 15 other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u27	But the Minister himself, in my own words, says: I do not know. It's possible, but it can't be. He did not make any convincing arguments for either of them. I reason as follows: if there are no concrete clues, why should you be afraid of them?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u28	That is why we did ask the question about the very tight monitoring. The Minister also indicated that he would consider whether a future change might be possible through a general measure of governance, so that we, as a Chamber, could react much more quickly. So if the monitor shows that there is no dirt in the air, then perhaps in a year and a half we should re-examine whether we can take a next step. But we are now very pleased with the Minister's statement that I am taking this step, but I am not going to experiment on the back of the Dutch patient.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u29	Very briefly, Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u30	Very briefly. No one wants that last one. No one's gonna do that either. But I do hear Mrs van den Berg say: let us meet again here in one and a half years' time, and then, as far as I am concerned, we must get back to the proposal of the Labour Party, GroenLinks and the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u31	I can't comment on that at all. We have just said that the Minister, together with the industry, will closely monitor the consequences. I do not think that the Minister is suggesting for nothing that we should see whether a change can take place in the future through a general measure of governance, because there may also be very different arguments for replacing a country, such as exchange rates. Then we are not talking about the Norwegian model at all; then we simply have other reasons to say: it is important to change that basket of countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u32	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Mulder, a colleague of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u33	The prices for medicines in the Netherlands are quite high. The Netherlands is in the leading group compared to the average price level in Europe. This could be better. The PVV Group therefore welcomes the proposal to amend the Pharmaceutical Prices Act. Indeed, the proposal to replace Germany by Norway reduces prices. This expected reduction in the maximum price of medicines is nice, not so much because of the booking of this saving or because it can close gaps in the budget, but because this money can be used for new medicines. Can the Minister indicate how the savings are going to be spent? Mr. Chairman. In principle, the PVV considers this to be a good proposal, but quality and availability of medicines are at least as important as pricing. That is why I still have some questions about the alternatives and about the Norwegian model with its nine analogue countries. The Minister states that if several European countries started using the Norwegian model, there would be a negative price spiral, with negative consequences for the availability of medicines. But in Norway itself, the Minister cannot give examples of the non-availability of medicines. How can this be explained? Somewhere else, the Minister claims that a negative price spiral increases the risk that drugs will not be introduced or are only introduced much later in countries with a lower level of economic prosperity. Can the Minister explain to us how this could affect the Netherlands, a country with a high level of economic prosperity? Finally, I would like to comment on the expected savings of more than 300 million when the proposal before us is accepted. The Minister reckons that the savings in applying the Norwegian model will be somewhere between €50 and €200 million. My colleague Van Gerven had already established this. He's probably gonna ask me about that. But my question to the Minister is: does the Minister really think that if the Netherlands does not save 300 million but 400 million by 2020, we will be skipped when we introduce medicines, for example? I'd like a clear response. Then I'll be ready right away, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u34	Okay, but there's another question for you from Mr. Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u35	Of course, I am very curious to see where the PVV group stands. Is she in favour of the Norwegian model?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u36	I think I said two things very clearly. I said that we consider this proposal to be an improvement on the current situation. I asked two questions about the Norwegian model. I am waiting for a response from the Minister, and perhaps afterwards I will make a proposal to my group to support it or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u37	I conclude that the PVV does not yet have a final opinion on this, but is the PVV Group now convinced of the government's argument? 'Cause we know what the cabinet's gonna answer. We've all been able to read that. There will be no new arguments. There is a fear that there will be a negative price spiral and that certain medicines will not come on the market here, which I do not believe at all. But isn't it better to introduce that Norwegian model, to start with and see how that works out?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u38	Mr. Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u39	For example, we have 200 million extra to spend.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u40	Your question is clear. I want the interruptions a little shorter. Mr. Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u41	Once again, I think that I have made one thing very clear in my text. We've been asking control questions. We are waiting for the answers regarding the Norwegian model. In addition, I am pleased that you have given me the opportunity to say that I think the following is very important. If we were to vote in favour of the Norwegian model, I still have to hear the reasons why I should not be in favour of it. It is no good to us if we save 50 to 200 million extra and then that money goes to climate crap or to lying migrants.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u42	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u43	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u44	I give the floor to Mr Rutte of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u45	Mr. Chairman. Even at this late hour in the evening, a debate on the prices of medicinal products still stirs up some emotions. Well, that makes sense. It is an important subject for everyone involved in health care. We want to control costs to get good care for everyone quickly available and maintained at a good price. That's puzzling, that's kind of tricky. The law now before us saves as much as 300 million euros a year on the prices of medicinal products, which is now being calculated without compromising their availability to Dutch patients. That makes it an excellent law that we will wholeheartedly support. So it's really about serious money. EUR 300 million is really serious money. If you look at investments the cabinet makes for extra police officers, that's about half that amount. So it's really about something. Now there are also amendments that see a far more far-reaching proposal. Provider in the sense that it is a different approach, which would increase the yield, but you have to weigh in there................................................................................................................................................................................................. The VVD Group considers that amendment to be too risky. Sometimes you have to let the patient's interests prevail over just money. In this case, we do not think that the balance is sufficient in this amendment. So we will not support that. Something tells me that Mr Van Gerven wants to ask a question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u46	Well, then we're gonna hear that. Mr. Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u47	Yes. I just want to take a look back. Mr Rutte says that this bill is worth 300 million a year. We agree on that. Let's take that for granted. Shouldn't we have introduced this in 2012? Didn't the VVD wrongly block that seven years and therefore, if we take that number, do 2.1 billion as Santa Claus gift to Big Pharma?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u48	Now Mr Van Gerven starts to book very creatively. Just now he said that if we had introduced the Norwegian model much earlier, it would be this kind of money. Let us assume that we had introduced the bill as it stands years ago. The Drug Prices Act has worked for years, but we have seen for a number of years that the Netherlands is slowly but surely starting to get out of hand. There's a moment. It's always hard to tell what the ideal time is to redistribute the baskets. That moment is now upon us. I support that. I also support the government's intention to make it easier and faster in the future. With the knowledge of afterwards you can always conclude that you could have done something earlier or different. In any case, I support this step now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u49	I note that the VVD is now in favour of this half-proposal. If we had introduced this seven years ago, we could have saved more than 2 billion, which we could have committed to patient care or lower premiums. The VVD has been a very good Santa Claus for Big Pharma in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u50	That is the conclusion that Mr Van Gerven is keen to draw. I don't share that. There's always a time when you start wondering if certain things could have been done differently and better. That moment has now arrived, although you don't know exactly what the effects would have been if you had done so in 2012. It is not the case that these baskets have been fixed in terms of prices for many years. Those relationships change. You must also always consider whether something really needs to change at some point and whether something about the price should be done without compromising availability. I think that is the time now, so I wholeheartedly support that. I will not support the amendment to go all the way to that Norwegian model, not because I am not positive about the possibility of saving 200 million extra, but because there are risks involved. I keep weighing those risks against each other, as I just said. If there's no risk, we'll have to do it tomorrow. I would like to ask the Minister something else. In the end, of course, it is still a complicated story that we are pricing this kind of medicine all over Europe... The Netherlands has that kind of thing, so does all of Europe. As a result, baskets and countries are all tied together. For example, we have read that the Netherlands weighs in fifteen baskets. This makes the Netherlands a guide country for Europe. Now it is wonderful that the Netherlands is so important, but that makes the Netherlands vulnerable. When we make decisions, it is easy for pharmaceutical companies to say, precisely because we are not such a big country: wait a little longer with that medicine. That's exactly the risk weighting there is. Can we not do much better to eliminate these risks by working together much better internationally when it comes to medicines prices? At the moment, we are still looking together for an area where you can work together in Europe. The previous Minister for Health has sought intensive cooperation with a number of countries in Europe and has entered into negotiations on prices. This is all very difficult, as I believe you will come from countries such as Austria, Ireland and Belgium. So the package is slightly larger. These countries dare to do it together from time to time. Then you can make a fist a lot more. As a result, I come much more into Mrs Ploumen's camp, which says: we must come up. Yes, rising is fine, but not with 2% of the world's volume of medicines. Then we talk very loudly and it sounds very tough, but eventually the patient can suffer. Why is it taking steps forward and finding many more countries to tackle it together so difficult? We could really make a fist. Can the Minister tell us what the current state of affairs is in Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u51	That last part of the argument went into it as God's word in an elder. Of course, it is also very good that Mr Rutte calls for more cooperation. The fact that the prices of medicines, for example, are lower in Africa has to a limited extent to do with the sense of solidarity of the pharmaceutical industry. It has to do with the fact that they organize the purchasing power much better than we do here. Would Mr Rutte be interested to put forward with me a concrete proposal to the Minister on how we could do that in Europe, including the final objective that we would have in mind?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u52	That sounds like a very exciting question, but I don't know what I'm saying yes to. That is why I am saying for the time being: I must first see the proposal. That seems wise to me before I say yes or no to it, let me put it this way. We have for a very long time supported the intention to start negotiations on pharmaceutical prices, preferably within an international alliance. We can only see that, although we are one Europe, we are officially a single market, it is precisely with these medicines that it is very difficult. This is perhaps because the strong players in this game, countries such as France, Germany and the United Kingdom, say: we are not participating, because we have a very large industry of our own and we want to protect it a little bit. I'm very much in favour of us stepping in with each other. I would have to judge every proposal on its merits.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u53	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u54	I'm going to make a proposal that Mr Rutte really can't resist.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u55	That's an exciting cliff hanger. I can't believe we're gonna be able to see that tonight at 11:10 p.m., Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u56	I agree. We're gonna go through it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u57	I have completed my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u58	The Minister indicated that he would like a maximum of ten minutes for the preparation of the reply. I am happy to give him the opportunity to do so. I shall suspend the sitting until 11.20 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u59	I'd like to give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to make a few introductory remarks and then try to answer the various questions. I would also like to comment on the amendments tabled by Mrs Ploumen and Mr Van Gerven. I do so immediately in the first period, because we have these amendments. First of all, by way of introduction. I think it is very important that patients have optimal access to safe, effective and affordable medicines. In the Netherlands, the quality, safety and accessibility of medicines are at a high level. I want to keep us at that high level. If you are a patient facing a disease, it is important that you have access to the right medicines. I see an increasing number of promising new medicines on the market, including those for which there has been no treatment before. I think that's good news. However, prices and expenditure for some of the new patented funds, the spécialités, are rising. The Dutch prices for these spécialités are also well above the European average. These expenditures are rising so rapidly that access to these medicines may be threatened in the long term. It is therefore necessary to take measures to reduce the prices of spécialités and thus keep the care affordable. The Medicines Awards Act, which we are discussing tonight, plays an important role in the price control of these spécialités. I therefore propose that this law be amended in line with the original objective of the law: to bring prices for spécialites closer to the European average. With this, I want to improve the affordability of new, expensive medicines, so that patients continue to have access to these promising products, now and in the future. Mr. Chairman. I have carefully examined the various possibilities for adaptation of the Drug Prices Act. I want to reduce spending on expensive medicines as much as possible by lowering prices, but I also want Dutch patients to have access to these new resources quickly. The Netherlands is now sixth on the European ranking for the rapid introduction of new medicines. I think that's a good result. For the Dutch patient, both affordability and fast access are important. I believe that with this bill I have found a good balance between these two interests. I achieve a significant saving of an estimated EUR 300 million per year. This corresponds to about 5% of total expenditure on medicines. But I have also opted for an adjustment which does not allow the Dutch prices for spécialités to fall too far and is still at or just above the European average. That too is an important starting point of the law. The risk of delayed availability or shortage of medicinal products due to too low prices is therefore limited. Indeed, in similar countries, it is also marketed for that price. Mr. Chairman. The adaptation of the Drug Prices Act is not the only measure I take to improve the affordability of medicines. I am in the process of modernising the pharmaceutical reimbursement system. I expect to be able to give you further information at the end of this year. I am also working on transferring groups of medicines from the public pharmacy to hospitals. In doing so, I would like to encourage price competition and appropriate use for these resources. And you know that I continue to negotiate in the middle of expensive medicines. Wherever possible, I will work with other countries from the BeNeLuxAI. Finally, I encourage, wherever possible, the sharp procurement of expensive medicines by field parties. Of course, I am looking at the effects of these measures on the market for medicinal products in close connection. Mr. Chairman. I want to make it easier. I want to be able to intervene more easily if there is a long and relatively large increase in prices in an analogue country. That is why I want to be able to designate countries by general measure of governance in the future, not in the case of this legislative amendment but in the case of the following. So I do not need to change the law again, as is the case at present. I take this amendment with me in the extensive legislative amendment. Finally, as an introductory remark. The proposed entry into force sets the new maximum prices for medicinal products on the basis of the analogue countries Norway, United Kingdom, Belgium and France as from 1 April next year. In doing so, I will give effect to the financial statement for medicinal products in the government agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u61	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Ploumen of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u62	Let me ask you an informative question first. Do I hear the Minister now say that he is preparing a general measure of governance in order to make it possible, in future, to change the analogue countries, for example, without amending the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u63	I want to do this bill now. However, I would like to announce that I would like to see the exchange of analogue countries not by law but by law regulated in an AMvB.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u64	That's an excellent idea. Now that we're standing here, let's work on a proposal for such an AMvB. We are Green Left, the SP and the Labour Party, who would like to make an amendment to settle this already. It was my intention to present it in second term, so perhaps I can please the Minister. So I'm doing the Minister a great deal of favor with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u65	It's not like that. I'm gonna stick with this bill for now. The larger, more extensive change to the Wgp I have promised you. I am happy to take that proposal with me. But I thought it would be a good idea to report this to you, because I can imagine that it would be desirable for the analogue countries to be changed more frequently, for affordability and also for the availability of medicines.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u66	I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman, but just a few more minutes. The Minister wants something. I say to him that we are working on this proposal for him and that we are immediately putting it to him as an amendment. And then suddenly he doesn't want it anymore! That's kind of weird.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u67	Well, it's not that weird. I've given it a lot of thought. I would like to confine myself today to what Mrs Ploumen calls 'the tiny change that produces a lot of money'. It is therefore a poor policy amendment to the law which results in financial results. All other changes I would like to bring to you at a later date. I also have to ask the Council of State for advice on this, and there are still many legislative routes to follow. But I would like to make this change from Germany to Norway tonight. That's why, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u68	Mr Van Gerven also has a question for you on the preliminary consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u69	Yes, Mr. Chairman. The Minister says that we are in sixth place when it comes to the marketing of new medicines. Where are Norway and France located?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u70	I don't know about France, but Norway I had just picked out. They're in place 15.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u71	I would ask the Minister to check out France as well. Will the Minister also comment on the fact that in France drug prices are actually at the same level as in Norway? And I don't think there's any problem there with getting drugs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u72	I would like to look at other countries, but I feel that it is a question to which Mr Van Gerven already knows the answer. Maybe he can inform us. But that medicine will be available much faster in the Netherlands and that we are much higher on that list than Norway, I find a sign on the wall. One of the reasons to switch Germany for Norway, but not to switch to the Norwegian model, is the reason that in Norway medicines come on the market much later than in the Netherlands. I'll come back to that later. Many factors can play a role in this, but this is one of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u73	Very briefly, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u74	I would very much like to ask the Minister if he wants to find out about France. With Norway as the only example, this does not seem to me to be a valid argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u75	We disagree on that. We have thought carefully about the legislative proposal that is now before us. That made a lot of money. That's what I'd like to do for tonight, and I don't want to go through all kinds of other things. If I think about it correctly, Norway is still above France. We are in sixth place, Norway on the fifteenth and France underneath when it comes to fast availability on the market. We have to weigh that point. In Mr Van Gerven's speech, the budgetary consequences were explicitly addressed. But I always want to address the concerns I have about the timely availability of medicines. Mr. Chairman. I come to the questions asked. I shall begin with the questions raised by the PvdA Group. I shall begin with the amendments. I should like to begin by responding to the amendment to item No. 5, which proposes to introduce the Norwegian model. I would advise against that amendment. The explanatory statement to that amendment ignores the fact that I already have a substantial saving of EUR 300 million in the legislative proposal before us. The Norwegian model leads to even lower prices in the Netherlands. Mrs Ploumen has also argued that. These prizes work in 15 other European countries. That may be a reason for the manufacturer to place a medicine here later or not on the market. The main reason not to take over this model is therefore the risk of timely availability for Dutch patients. This weighs less for Norway, because only six countries weigh Norwegian prices. However, even in Norway, lower prices appear to have consequences. New resources will be available there, as I have just said, later on on the market than in the Netherlands. This may not only be due to lower prices, but it will certainly play a role. I do not recommend the amendment to item No. So, five. I come to the amendment to item No. 10. A response to that is requested. It is proposed that only the lowest two prices should be included in the calculation of the maximum price. I would also advise against that amendment, actually for the same reason. The explanatory statement ignores the fact that the legislative proposal already makes a significant saving in the order of 300 million a year. With the proposed adaptation of the system, I am going to press harder on these Dutch prices. Again, that may be reason for a manufacturer to place the medicine on the market later or not. Then there is a third amendment, an amended one. That is now the amendment to item No. 13. It proposes to report within three years on the effectiveness and effects of this law, in particular on the effects on prices and on the availability of medicinal products. I leave the opinion on that amendment to the Chamber. I'm going to monitor the financial effects in collaboration with the Pharmaceutical Numbers Foundation. They will do this by comparing the modified maximum prices of 1 April 2020 with the old prices set as of 1 October 2019. In addition, I will continue to monitor the evolution of expenditure on an annual basis. For example, for the effects on availability, I can look at reports of shortages or threatening deficits at the Drug Deficit Reporting Point and the withdrawal of a marketing authorisation. It may be difficult to isolate the impact of this bill from other factors that can play a role in this, but I think it is important to show what the effects of the legislative amendment are. That is what I wanted to say about the three amendments. I come to the questions that have been asked. Can the Minister tell us what additional savings are made on the basis of the average of the lowest two countries in the current four countries? The transfer of the SFK results in an estimate of approximately 9.5% of the price pressure on the spécialités. By way of comparison, the current legislative proposal amounts to 7.8% price pressure. This includes the savings of an estimated 300 million. If 7.8% of price pressure yields 300 million, 9.5% grossly calculated gives about 60 million more. Then it was asked how many manufacturers have announced not to place a product on the market. Which manufacturers are these and what are the means involved? Or are they just threats? I don't want to talk about threats. I didn't receive any threats. However, industry parties, such as the VIG and HollandBIO, but also parties such as the KNMP, did not point out the risk of placing a product on the market during the consultation. It is well known that pricing is a factor in determining manufacturers' launch strategy. I cannot agree with it and I can find it undesirable, but it is the reality that I am dealing with. Then there's the next question. Suppose a manufacturer removes a product from the market. Can it still come to the Netherlands via parallel imports? Yes, you can, but I think it is only possible if a parallel trader can resell a batch of products with an attractive profit in the Netherlands. So the lower the prices here, the less attractive we are to parallel traders. Then the objective of the lowest price. Why do we leave the savings of the extra 50 to 200 million? I am not aiming for as low a price as possible, as the risk of manufacturers marketing products later or not in the Netherlands increases. The level of price pressure at which the risk of availability becomes too high is, of course, difficult to determine. And even with this bill, I can't completely rule out the risk. That is why I said in my introduction that I think we have struck a good balance with this bill. After all, I opt for an adjustment whereby prices are, in principle, at or just above the European average. In four similar countries, the manufacturer can also place the product on the market around that price. Mr President, two more questions from Mrs Ploumen's speech. How much lower are prices after discounts in Germany? I do not know exactly, but what I was able to find out so quickly is that the prices of spécialités in Germany are about 13% higher compared to the Netherlands. Then there's the strategic behavior of manufacturers. What can the Minister do at European level on top of the strategic behaviour of manufacturers? Think of raising prices and offering medicines. Mrs Ploumen knows that I work in BeneluxAI with several countries to further increase our negotiating power towards manufacturers and to achieve better prices. Secondly, I am committed to adapting the orphan medicinal product regulation in order to avoid strategic behaviour. That in the direction of Mrs Ploumen. Then there are a few questions from the SP side, from Mr Van Gerven. I would also like to begin with the amendment that has been tabled. 11. It proposes that only the lowest price should be included in the fixing of the maximum price and that the request procedure should be deleted. I would advise against this amendment. The application procedure is laid down in a European directive and is therefore included in the Wgp. Its deletion is contrary to European law. In addition, the explanatory statement to this amendment ignores the fact that I already make a substantial saving of EUR 300 million per year. With the proposed adjustment of the system, I am going to press the Dutch prices even harder. That may, as I said earlier, be reason for a manufacturer to bring a medicine here later or not on the market, and I do not think that is desirable. I therefore reject the amendment to item No. 11. I therefore believe that all four of the amendments which form part of this debate have provided an appreciation. A number of questions have also been asked by Mr Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u76	Mr Van Gerven has a question about his amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u77	Yes. May I conclude that the amendment can, but the Minister does not want it? I am also referring to the fact that we have taken out that one provision, which is the provision on requests, if I may put it that way, but that you could also regulate it through the General Law on Administrative Law. I understand it could be done that way. I actually want to hear from the Minister that the amendment could be politically, but that he thinks it is undesirable. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u78	There are two elements in the amendment I have before me. There is the proposal to include only the lowest price when fixing the maximum price. I have indicated that I find it politically undesirable. That's one element. I find that politically undesirable. I've just argued that I'm looking for the balance. The other element is the application procedure, which is required by a European directive. That's why it was recorded in the Wgp this way. Its deletion is contrary to European law. In the words of Mr Van Gerven, I can say as follows. There is one part of not wanting; that is the first element. I'm making a different political assessment than the one in the amendment. In the second, the request procedure, I do not think it is possible to do so, because it is contrary to European law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u79	Then I adjust the amendment so that it becomes a purely political consideration whether you are in favour of it or against it. In any case, it is clear that it is not contrary to European legislation and regulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u80	If that amendment is amended in the manner indicated by Mr Van Gerven, it will continue to be dissuaded. More questions have been asked by the SP. What is the impact of the Maximation Scheme's own contribution to the GVS on the refund schemes? I have previously promised that a monitor will be published by the Pharmaceutical Numbers Foundation at the beginning of 2020. I asked that foundation to monitor the effects of the maximation scheme. I don't have any figures yet, but I expect them at the beginning of next year. Why didn't the minister make a sharper law, was asked, because every year money disappears in Big Pharma's pockets. I said earlier that I am not aiming for as low a price as possible, because the risk will increase that manufacturers will market products later or not in the Netherlands. The level of price pressure which increases the risk of availability is, of course, difficult to determine. Even with this bill, I cannot completely rule out that risk, but I believe that I have found a good balance with this bill. Is the purpose of the law respected by replacing Germany with Norway? I think so. The aim of the Wgp is to ensure access to medicines by bringing Dutch prices closer to the European average. With this bill, I'm working in that direction. It was said: according to the minister, availability comes into play with the Norwegian model, because the Netherlands is behind in the queue, because it is not interesting. What does the Minister base that on? We have just had a small debate on how quickly a country is introducing new medicines. We're doing that a lot faster than Norway. You could put a piece of the evidence in there. I would also like to point out that manufacturers, for example, have special software to determine the order of countries in which they introduce resources. Like I said, you can't agree with that, you may find that undesirable, but it is the reality that I have to deal with. Mr. Chairman. Then there are three questions from Mr Van Gerven which I would like to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u81	Do that first. I shall then give the floor to Mr Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u82	Is GVS modernisation still feasible? Are you gonna be able to raise that $300 million? It concerns 160 million on extramural care via Wgp and 140 million with GVS modernisation. Yeah, we've made calculations that it's gonna work out in a way that doesn't harm the patient. Who benefits from the maximisation of the GVS' own contribution? I think the patients benefit from the maximation of the GVS' own contribution. What happened to the so-called refund schemes from manufacturers is part of the SFK's monitor. You'll have that monitor at the beginning of next year. Finally. Why do patients pay the price financially and in health rather than addressing industry? These comments put Mr Van Gerven against the background that 3.5 billion would now be saved if we had introduced the Norwegian model seven years ago. Mr Van Gerven says that we have given the industry 3.5 billion. I say, with such a plan, we could have given many patients access to new, possibly even life-saving medicines later. For the Netherlands, the introduction of the Norwegian model could have much greater risks for availability than for a patient in Norway, as Dutch prices continue to work in fifteen other countries and Norwegian prices only in six countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u83	I still have a factual question: it can no longer be done tonight, but would the Minister once again like to map out the story that there would be a relationship between innovation, the availability of resources and the level of price levels? I ask him not only to list this for Norway, the Netherlands and France, but also for all the countries in Europe. Then perhaps we can discuss this again in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u84	That's your first question. The Minister's reaction. I'm gonna go cut it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u85	I would like to hear the rest of Mr Van Gerven's speech without asking for anything. But I'm not really going to do all kinds of extra research now. We are going to monitor the effect of this change of law. I have just responded to that when I spoke about the amendment that sees it. I think it's good to follow those effects, and I will follow them closely.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u86	If you're gonna make a statement, you're gonna have to prove it. The Minister claims it has an influence, but let him prove it through a thorough investigation. Like most parties, I have to do it with two or three employees, but the Minister has a lot of capable officials behind him or next to him who could do that if the Minister approves it. So the Minister is being held hostage by economic considerations and a commercial strategy of the pharmaceutical industry, and that is why we are paying 200 million extra for medicines. Is that advisable? Let me put it carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u87	We are having this debate in all its keys, and we will continue to do so for a while. In fact, I believe that everyone in the Chamber would very much like the pharmaceutical industry to communicate its prices transparently. On the other hand, there is also the value of the pharmaceutical industry for developing new innovative medicines. Mr Van Gerven said: whoever claims must prove. And that is exactly what we are going to do with monitoring this change of law. We're gonna get these effects straight, but we're gonna have to book that cut-off, that target, right now. That's what we're doing. We already know that the pharmaceutical industry is a commercial industry. We are concerned that we have medicines, new medicines, available to patients in good time. I think that we would also have a debate on this in the Chamber if I did not stand for it. Finally. That VWS has capable employees, I will be happy to pass on to the relevant employees.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u88	Finally, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u89	I would say that my question can therefore be answered. Rounding up. It can't be that... Look, the Minister is very hard at negotiating very expensive drugs. He will then have to negotiate with the pharmaceutical industry, while the sluice-up procedure does not tell him what the exact price of, for example, expensive cancer medicines is. So now he has a means in his hands that allows him to act and which allows him to show courage and courage. He can do that by introducing that Norwegian model. If that doesn't go well, then we can always reverse it. Why does the Minister not opt for the patient, the Dutch contributor and for more courage by introducing the Norwegian model?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u90	I think that's a risk to the patient. I find that risky for the patient. I believe that this timely availability of medicines is also very important. Once again, if I were not in favour of that, we would have the debate on that point too. Sometimes we also have such a debate, for example after the remark: make it available; I don't care what it costs. That may be a bit too domestic, but we always want to put the patient's interests first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u91	Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u92	The third speaker was Mrs Ellemeet. In fact, she made two points in her speech. The first was that pharmaceutical is not a healthy industry. I am opposed to the importance that we attach to new innovative medicines. They are also very often from the pharmaceutical industry and that is something to be proud of. We need to take advantage of that. As I said earlier, I am actually very pleased that there are still a lot of new resources in the pipeline. That is, of course, the positive side of the matter. In addition, Mrs Ellemeet argued that the other point was that it was only a small step to replace Germany with Norway, as stated in the legislative proposal currently before us. It may be a simple bill, but it's a really large amount of money, and I think that's valuable. Then I come to Mrs van den Berg's speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u93	Mrs Ellemeet has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u94	Well, let me ask you a question, yeah. The Minister indicated earlier that he would like us to get closer to the European average with the average prices of the Netherlands. That is good, but wouldn't he also want to bring that European average down further, and does he not see this law as an instrument for achieving it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u95	That's very hard to say. That's what averages do. We are a small country and have only a modest share. The aim is to get close to that European average. If we take care of that, I think that we can also best guarantee availability, because we can then point to many other countries that pay similar prices for medicines. That is why I think the starting point of this law is so well chosen, even though it has been for years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u96	We are a small country, but we also know that we are an analogue country for many other countries. In that sense, we place more weight on the scale than we might think. That is why it is interesting to look at it this way: if we make other choices and therefore opt for a lower average maximum price, it will work further than you would think, because we apply to so many countries as an analogue country. So we can really take more steps with this law than the Minister is doing now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u97	All right, now we are back to the debate we have just had: it is always in the search for balance, even when it comes to the availability of medicines. I'm not gonna gamble with the availability of drugs. I don't think that's wise. That's why I choose this balance in the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u98	Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u99	Mr. Chairman. A number of questions have been raised by the CDA Group. Mrs van den Berg said: can the Minister reflect on the impact of the amendments on the availability of medicines? I have already passed all four amendments. So I think that reflection has been given, and I hope that I have been clear about that. Then there's the KNMP's offer. The KNMP has offered to contribute to an impact analysis and monitor, said Ms Van den Berg, and the Minister has indicated his desire to have a discussion on this issue. Has that conversation taken place, and can the KNMP contribute? The CDA thinks that's important. Yeah, I've been in touch with the KNMP. The financial monitor, as I just said, is carried out by the Pharmaceutical Numbers Foundation. That foundation is associated with the KNMP, and the KNMP has indicated that it is sufficiently involved in the monitoring. Then there is the issue of exchange rates, which can lead to an unexpected price increase. What happens in that case, Mrs Van den Berg asked. She also asked the following question. By identifying countries at AMvB, it is possible to react more quickly to undesirable effects of the exchange rate; what consequences can be considered? If an exchange rate suddenly rises, and if it does so systematically, it can have an upward effect on the price. The risk of the exchange rate is therefore an important reason why I am investigating whether I can identify the analogue countries at AMvB. So, as I said earlier, I am going to present this to you in a more extensive legislative amendment. In this way, if the maximum price increases for a long time and is relatively high due to the exchange rate, I can quickly designate another country as an analogue country. Does the pharmacy purchase price of spécialités increase as the Wgp maximum price rises? In general, this will have an effect on spending. If the Wgp maximum price increases for a means without competition, the purchase price for the public pharmacy can indeed increase. Mr. Chairman. Then there is Mrs van den Berg's next question. The Minister writes that if everything goes according to schedule, the law can enter into force on 15 December 2019, so that the new maximum prices can be set on 1 January 2020. How's that going? We update prices twice a year, on April 1st and October 1st. So if the legal treatment in your Chamber and in the First Chamber is as planned, I will set the maximum prices from 1 April 2020 on the basis of the new analogue countries. But that requires that the law is also passed in the First Chamber this year. The agency CIBG has already started preparations for implementation, such as adjusting the necessary software and reading the price lists. That is a very precise and comprehensive piece of work. Those are the questions I had noted from Mrs Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u100	The Minister states that when there are exchange rate increases, which can lead to higher prices rather quickly, we are going to have to pay here in the Netherlands. Then the general measure of governance that the Minister spoke about is particularly important, because it gives us more opportunities to move faster. Can the Minister give an indication of the timetable for the proposal of the general measure of governance?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u101	Yeah, I can, but I'm doing that out of my head, and that's pretty dangerous at this point. In fact, I would like to have the more extensive amendment of the law in the Council of State in the middle of next year and then shortly thereafter in this Chamber. There's a thumb up in the civil servants. So at least when it comes to planning, I didn't make any mistakes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u102	Okay. We have a positive basic position on this, I shall say. I can tell other parties in the Chamber that that is the case there. I don't know if that could speed up this whole process.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u103	I'll check it out. I said that I would like to embed it in other measures in a large-scale change. But I fully understand this encouragement from you and from other groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u104	I had one more question open to me, by the way. We checked it out, because it was a very difficult word. I have to say it right. You have also asked whether there is any longitudinal research into admission. Whether research could still be done after prolonged use and authorisation. I can see you looking surprised. You don't remember what you asked?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u105	It doesn't look very familiar to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u106	We do. We wrote that down together. Anyway... If you find the question answered, it's totally fantastic.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u107	No, no, I hurry, of course, to look at the speaker regarding the longitudinal...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u108	You used the word. We liked it very much and that's why we remember.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u109	I think it's a very nice word, too. But I don't think I've used the word "longitudinal." Then I've been even tighter than I thought tonight. The only thing we have talked about is something that Mrs Ellemeet and I have already discussed with the Minister in another consultation, namely that we would like more practical research. But I will come back to that separately afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u110	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u111	Mr. Chairman. Then there are questions from the PVV Group, Mr Mulder. Can the Minister indicate how the savings are going to be spent? This saving cannot be spent, which falls within the general budget. This is a task already assigned to the coalition agreement. So that cut has already been filled in and indicated. So there's no spending side to that. How can the risk of the downward price spiral be explained if several countries introduce the Norwegian model but are not examples of negative effects in Norway itself? Well, that certainly explains it. At present Norway is the only country using a system whereby the lowest three prices are taken out of a total of ten. Only if several European countries apply this model at the same time will there be a risk of a negative price spiral. So there is no such risk at the moment. By the way, Norway has negative consequences of this model. After all, they are in place 15 in line for quick introduction, where the Netherlands is much higher on that list, in place 6. I said that before. It has also been said: the Minister states that by a negative price spiral, the risk of later introduction is mainly in countries with a lower level of prosperity; how is it possible that there is a risk of later introduction? If several European countries use such a system at the same time, a negative price spiral may arise. In response, manufacturers may decide to sell their products either at a higher price or at all in poorer countries, so to speak, so that they can keep the average European prices high. Then there is Mr Mulder's litmus test. Does the Minister think that the Netherlands is being skipped with the Norwegian model? No, but as previously argued, I don't want to run the risk of being skipped either. Mr President, that is in the direction of Mr Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u112	I've got a checkup question. You say this has already been announced in the coalition agreement. So we don't see these savings in lower prices? I think I am also asking on behalf of the PvdA, because it says in its amendment that lower prices for medicines mean that the burden is reduced. How do these things relate?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u113	That amendment was dissuaded, as you know. I do not think that prices are going to fall directly, but the efforts of my policy are, of course, aimed at adjusting prices downwards. That must be the objective we are aiming for. Mr. Chairman. Finally, Mr Rutte of the VVD Group had asked why we no longer hang out with other countries. Can't we organize that purchasing power stronger? I am very much in favour of that. I believe that the cooperation in the BeneluxAI context, Belgium, the Netherlands, Luxembourg, Austria and Ireland, is working well, but it could really be more robust. I also see other groups of European countries taking similar initiatives. I sometimes sit around and see if we can't bring these groups together. The character of these groups of countries à la BeneluxAI is that they do not have a lot of pharmaceutical industry within their national borders, so there is a kind of like-mindedness in that. There is no like-mindedness in the welfare level of those different groups. That might make it difficult. That is also always the point why we cannot organise this purchasing power more strongly. This is because the reimbursement systems vary from country to country. It keeps looking where there's like-mindedness. The moment must also fit. The speaker knows that we have increased together with Belgium twice in negotiations. This is very good and I would like to do so more often, but it is a search for which countries want to conduct these negotiations at the same time as the Netherlands. Imagine if we would have to wait a year to do it together with a few other countries. That doesn't feel right either because you keep the patient waiting because of a stronger purchasing power. So it's really puzzles to see how to organize a stronger purchasing power. In addition to national initiatives such as a Platform Purchasing Power, which I have previously informed you about, I think it is very important to continue looking internationally for the organisation of purchasing power. But here's my caution. Or no, not caution, because I think it is very important and I would like to continue it. Mr President, I hope that I have answered the questions with pleasure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u114	I see nodding approval, so I give the floor to Mrs Ploumen for her second term. I am afraid to say that I still had to say that she had asked a question about the administrative burden. It must be me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u115	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister. He answered all the questions, but not all the questions to his satisfaction. But perhaps I could urge him to change his answers a little bit. First of all, I have a short motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that money can be better spent on care than on unnecessarily high pharmaceutical prices that only benefit the pharmaceutical industry;]] [[calls on the Government to examine and quantify the factors influencing the balance between lower prices and the availability of medicinal products, by having the various possibilities for adjusting the Wgp developed and to inform the Court of Justice of this later this year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Ploumen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35137-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u116	In addition to that motion, Bureau Legislation is now working on an amendment. That amendment aims at what the Minister wants, so it is actually a kind of service from the Chamber to the Minister. Because with that amendment we would like to make it possible for changes to be made to the number of analogue countries and the method of calculating the maximum prices per general measure of administration. I've actually heard the Minister would like that, too. Only, he doesn't want that till next year. I don't understand why it shouldn't be until next year. That is why I am offering him this amendment. I hope that an opinion can be adopted before the vote. Again, it's really the Minister's intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u117	Mr. Rutte has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u118	That sounds very nice, and a piece of legislation is sometimes written very quickly. But isn't it better to see how we can get the law amended in the next round, with all the advice it gives, and wait until the Council of State has looked at it, and so on, instead of putting a little bit of a quick change in the law? That feels a little careless.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u119	But I find that a little easy on my colleague. Firstly, our Bureau of Legislation is very careful. They've also cut with this axe before. In addition, I have heard the Minister say that it is his wish to make this change. If I have listened carefully to Mrs van den Berg, I have also heard her wish. That wish certainly lives with those three parties, and I am almost certain that Mr Edgar Mulder is also in favour of it. I would ask the Minister, of course, to take a good look at that. So why don't we just get that right at once? That would be my counter-question. 'Cause this isn't that complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u120	The question is not whether such an amendment can be legally applied. I think that Bureau Legislation has looked at all the amendments that we have seen coming by today. They checked to see if the right articles were in there. So that's all right. So the amendment that Mrs Ploumen is now making will undoubtedly be technically correct. The question is, of course, what the effect is and what we need to find with each other. You have heard that I am also excited about getting things settled in the basics by AMvB, but I do think that I should have looked a little more broadly in matters such as a legislative amendment before I can be sure that I am voting for it or against it. Now we come into a kind of trap, a kind of political trick that will be said next Tuesday at the votes: oh, oh, look at all those parties voting against our amendment, when they want it! It just doesn't feel right. Then I'll probably say out of care: I can't do it now, but I want it eventually. Then why do we do it that way?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u121	There is a big misunderstanding here. Because my intention is not to show that other colleagues are going to vote against it. My intention is to transform a feeling that lives here in the Chamber and with the Minister into an amendment in such a way that it is acceptable to all of us. So it just seems to me to be decent chamber work. Look, it's really too late for tricks. I sincerely intend to translate the wish of the Chamber into that amendment. I was genuinely pleased that the Minister expressed that same wish.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u122	Thank you, Mrs Ploumen. Then I will go to Mr Van Gerven. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u123	Mr. Chairman. First of all, a motion for a resolution following the debate on this law. I think that motion is in order. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the revision of the Pharmaceutical Prices Act will lead to cost savings of millions;]] [[Whereas patients sometimes have to pay more than €800 a year for medicines such as heavy paracetamol, vitamins and minerals since they were removed from the basic package;]] [[noting that this is contrary to the objective of maximising the own contribution for GVS medicinal products at €250 per year;]] [[calls on the government to reimburse these medicines for the group of patients who have to pay disproportionately for heavy paracetamol, vitamins and minerals,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35137-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u124	Mr. Chairman. To conclude, I regret that the Minister, while he has the opportunity, does not show any more courage. Politics is also guts to have, and I would have wished him a little more guts to defend the interests of the Dutch patient and premium contributor when it comes to curbing drug prices. There's an open-minded opportunity, and he's not gonna take it. This is very unfortunate and may cost us another EUR 200 million a year in the years to come. It's really sour if we leave that money behind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u125	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Ellemeet van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u126	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to comment on the amendment announced by Mrs Ploumen, Mr Van Gerven and myself. The Minister himself announces that he wants to be able to increase the number of analogue countries and that this is the change that still needs to be made. That's the only thing that needs to be changed. We can do this now without saying that we are currently introducing the Norwegian model, for example. We're not gonna do that right now. We're only changing the law now so that we can do it at a later date. So you could say it's a technical adjustment that's easy to do. We want to make that possible already. Then we'll do the job for the minister. We're not going to use that now, but we already have. I can't imagine you being against this, Minister. Then there's another point. The Minister states: I don't feel like that Norwegian model right now, but I would like to see how we can bring down the European average of those prices. So I do feel a certain ambition with the Minister. He's still a little cautious in his wording, so I think I'm just giving the one push the Minister is waiting for. That's what I'll do with the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that not only the Netherlands but also other European countries benefit from a lower European average of pharmaceutical prices;]] [[calls on the government to examine new ways of reducing drug prices in the Netherlands, but also in other European countries,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ellemeet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35137-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u127	I have written this motion; I understand you may.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u128	Yeah, you can. We must, of course, be able to read the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u129	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u130	Mrs Van den Berg from the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We talked today about the Medicine Awards Act. We also want to ensure that we do not suffer from a massive rise in the prices of medicines. I had already mentioned in my speech that I, together with Mrs Ellemeet, had previously drawn attention to what I call an exit strategy, i.e. more evaluation once medicines have been included in the basic package. For that I have the next motion, partly on behalf of Mrs Ellemeet. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas for some medicines the group of users is huge, as shown by the fact, among other things, that 4 million Dutch people use blood pressure lowering agents, 3 million Dutch people use gastric acid inhibitors and 2 million Dutch people use cholesterol lowering agents, as described in the book Depilation;]] [[Whereas there has been a debate on new guidelines for prescribing statins (cholesterol inhibitors), as this Directive will lead to further expansion of the group of users of this product and question its effectiveness;]] [[Whereas in practice medicinal products appear to have far more adverse effects than clinical trials can conclude;]] [[Whereas pharmaceutical companies do not wish to participate voluntarily in research on the effectiveness of a medicinal product in practice;]] [[Whereas the law already provides that medicinal products reimbursed under the Health Insurance Act must comply with the state of science and practice;]] [[calls on the government to pay more attention to the effects of medicinal products in practice when including medicines in the basic package by making more structural efforts to evaluate them in practice,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Berg and Mr Ellemeet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35137-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u132	Mr. Chairman. Then I have a whole other question. It's about majestic preparation. The CDA was also pleased that the Minister came up with the letter on 8 April to offer more possibilities for majestic preparation, because sometimes we see that the pharmaceutical industry is using its position improperly. But now we hear from the field that there are other messages, 180 degrees the other way. Because we are increasingly going to personalized medicine, especially with the oncological medicines, healthcare insurers and pharmacies are already looking at a earning model to undermine patents. In our view, that was not the intention of the Minister's letter. Can he give a reflection on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u133	The other speakers waived their second term. The Minister doesn't have all the motions yet, so we'll wait a little longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u134	The minister's already standing by. I'm just ignoring him. Sorry about that!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u135	Mr President, the day is still long, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u136	That's right, that's right! You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u137	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 14, tabled by the PvdA Group, the government requests that the factors in the balance between lower prices and the availability of medicinal products be examined and quantified by means of the various possibilities for adjusting the Wgp and to inform the Court of Justice of this later this year. I'm deceiving that motion. I indicated in the first period that an evaluation is imminent. It has also been mentioned in one of the amendments. I would like to set my sights on that and not have further separate investigations carried out. The amendment in part No. 17, I advise. The text of that amendment states that more analogue countries can be designated at AMvB. That is not what I intended in the first term. That was about the fact that we have four analogue countries. These should now be amended by law, although this could also be done by AMvB. Here we are talking about more analogue countries. I therefore advise against that amendment. Mr Van Gerven has the motion in part No. 15 with the request to the government to reimburse these medicines for the group of patients who have to pay disproportionately for heavy paracetamol, vitamins and minerals. I would also advise against that amendment. This is a conscious choice, including from Parliament. That choice was made last year with the parcel letter. I don't want to change that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u138	I ask the Minister if, when he proposed to take that out of the package, he was aware that this could have such consequences for certain groups of patients.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u139	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u140	Look, we talked about tens back then, but here we are talking about amounts of sometimes more than €800 on an annual basis. The question is whether this is reasonable, partly in view of the ceiling of €250 own contribution laid down in the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u141	I believe that last year we did not talk about a few tens, but about a much wider range. Anyway, this does not change my view of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u142	Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u143	With her motion in part No. 16 Ms Ellemeet asked the government to examine new ways of reducing drug prices in the Netherlands, but also in other European countries. Actually, I think I already do. I'm focusing on the tightening up of the Wgp and modernising the GVS. I am also committed to a more international approach. So I do not really want to announce new research alongside the monitoring I have already mentioned. For that reason, I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u144	Mrs Ellemeet has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u145	I think this is kind of crazy. Surely the Minister should take every opportunity to see what else we can do to bring down these drug prices. Thinking doesn't stop, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u146	No, definitely not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u147	There are some routes now. I agree with some of them, but I'm a little less enthusiastic about others. My point is that this is such a challenge, not only for us, but also for other European countries. The Minister is talking about solidarity. This is an encouragement to keep really watching and to keep talking, including with other European countries, about what we can do to get those prices down.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u148	I give the floor to the Minister to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u149	The operative part of the motion states that we need to explore new possibilities. I have just identified a number of themes and the Wgp, the GVS and international cooperation. There's a whole cooker behind that already. I do these things and I have no intention of starting separate investigations. That is why I am so explicit about this. You must seek my views in that direction. Of course, we will always have to work to keep pharmaceutical prices within acceptable limits, but in the first period I indicated a number of routes through which I would like to look. Besides, I don't want to do anything extra in the form of new research.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u150	No, you will not have the floor, Mrs Ellemeet. We'll do it all at once. I now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u151	The motion in part No. 18 tabled by Mrs Van den Berg, the government calls for greater attention to be paid to the effects of medicinal products in practice in the case of inclusion of medicinal products in the basic package, through a more structural commitment to their evaluation. This stimulus has already sounded in other debates earlier today. That can count on my support, so I'll give the motion judgment Chamber. Finally, a reflection on the point made by Mrs Van den Berg about the majestic preparation. It should not be a reflection of the Minister on the health insurers and pharmacists who may be making a profit model to undermine patents. That, of course, is not the intention of the letter on preparations that I sent you earlier. That's my reflection. I don't think we can do that kind of thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u152	A brief question on the motion, Mrs Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u153	In fact, a brief question on Mrs Ellemeet's motion. I had the impression that Mrs Ellemeet was not asking for a new investigation, but that she just constantly wants to see the mindset on new possibilities. But there is no request for a new investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u154	I hear Mrs Ellemeet agrees. We can also tap out of another keg. If I can read the motion in such a way that I am committed to tightening up the Wgp, that I want to modernise the GVS and present you with a proposal on this, that I continue to work in international cooperation and also to raise European high prices, then I have made all the points. If that's the way to accommodate the operative part in the motion that's the investigation, then I can give the motion the judgment Chamber. Then I dressed the motion very nicely.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u155	Everybody's happy. You can say something now, Mrs Ellemeet, because now you have a different answer than just now. Now everything's changing again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u156	Many thanks to Mrs Van den Berg. What I meant to say was to seize opportunities. So don't investigate in the sense of doing an investigation. So good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u157	Very briefly. 'Cause I'm gonna tap out of another keg, too. The Minister mentioned that the amendment states: the possibility to increase the number of analogue countries. From his point of view, I understand that he objects. I have changed that to: to adjust the number of analogue countries. That is much more neutral and, in my view, meets the Minister's objection. Does that lead to a different judgment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u158	No. This still leaves room for adjustment of the number of analogue countries. The purpose of the legislative amendment that I have put forward to you is that something that can now be regulated by law in the future can also be regulated by AMvB, but not by changes with the number of analogue countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u159	Thank you. You fought like a lion, Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-8.u160	Next Tuesday we will be voting on the motions and amendments.
