ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-9.u1	I suggest that we proceed immediately with the next debate. That too is with the Minister for Medical Care, whom I welcome again. This debate concerns the report of the written consultation Act on blood supply. As the first speaker on the side of the Chamber, Mrs Ellemeet has the floor on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-9.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that Sanquin would like to recruit more male donors to maintain the blood supply;]] [[noting that men who have sex with men (MSM) are de facto excluded from blood donation for the sake of blood safety, and that this distinction is made on the basis of sexual orientation;]] [[noting that no risk assessment as a selection criterion for MSM has been carried out to date, and Sanquin and VWS are therefore unable to provide conclusive information on individual risk assessment as a safe selection method;]] [[Calls on the Government to launch an independent investigation into the impact of donor selection policies based on sexual risk behaviour on blood safety, and the possibilities of changing the Dutch donor selection policy based on target groups into a donor selection policy based on sexual risk behaviour without compromising blood safety;]] [[invites the Government to draw up a timetable for this investigation, and to inform the Court thereof, as well as on the design of the investigation before the investigation begins,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ellemeet, Mr Pia Dijkstra and Mr Tellegen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29447-53]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-9.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I also have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that there is still exclusion from blood donation based on sexual orientation rather than risk behaviour, which is also noted by the Human Rights College (judgment number 2019-60);]] [[noting that France and Israel are pursuing policies to freeze donated blood plasma from men having sex with men (MSM) and are subsequently re-tested after two to four months;]] [[noting that, on the basis of EU Commission Directive 2004/33/EC, blood plasma may have a storage period of up to 36 months in the Netherlands and thus the retest of donated blood plasma is possible;]] [[Whereas the policy of donating blood plasma by MSM in France and Israel has not led to additional risks and has been well received by the target group in both countries;]] [[considers that steps should be taken towards a policy of donation where risk behaviour should be taken as a criterion rather than sexual orientation;]] [[calls on the Government, together with Sanquin, to launch a national pilot for the summer of 2020 based on the experiences of France and Israel, to enable MSM to donate blood plasma without distinguishing on sexual orientation and without an exclusion period in which MSM should not have had sexual contact,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Pia Dijkstra and Mr Ellemeet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29447-54]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-9.u4	Mr. Chairman. I have a daughter who came into the world with 970 grams of blood transfusions. Not for a second in the hospital, when I saw those bags of blood dripping into her body, I doubted the safety of that blood. That's just what we assumed. That blood was safe and she needed it to survive. I've been a blood donor for a long time. Just last week, I gave him half a liter of blood, blood type O-negative. They always want them. With that I know both sides of the story, both donating and receiving blood from safe blood, because that's what it's all about. We all know that the quality of Dutch blood supply is world-class and we would like to keep it that way. Safe blood begins with the donor's selection. Sanquin selects donors based on their risk behaviour. Each donor fills out a questionnaire on health, medical treatment, stay abroad and risk factors such as drug use and sexual behaviour. As a woman, you are asked, among other things, if you have had sexual contact with a man for the last four months who in turn has had sexual contact with another man. If you answer no to that, there won't be a cock anymore. But do women with mixed sexual contacts know for sure that their male partners haven't had sex with other men? Every man in his turn is asked if he has had sexual contact with a man for the last four months. If he answers yes, he may not give blood, because then he falls under the risk group MSM. If he doesn't answer, it's okay. My point is that no one checks that list in truth. Of course, you want to assume that everyone who gives blood fills out that list fairly, but there is no certainty. In a way, therefore, that list is a paper reality. Does the Minister agree with the VVD? You only get a guarantee about the safety of blood when you actually test blood. That brings me to the most important point. All men who agree to the question whether they've had sex with another man in the last four months shouldn't give blood. But what if it's a man who's had the same male partner for 20 years, has no alternate contacts and wants to give blood? Why does the MSM group not look more closely at the actual risk behaviour, so that the whole group of men is not treated in the same way? I therefore put my name under the motion of GroenLinks. No misunderstanding, safety is paramount, but the VVD considers it unjust and unnecessary to put all men who have sex with men on the same footing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-9.u5	Thank you. Mr Van Gerven has the floor on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-9.u6	Mr. Chairman. I have one motion and it's about Sanquin Plasma Products, a component of Sanquin that's under pressure. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is of social importance to maintain the knowledge and production of plasma products for the government;]] [[noting that Sanquin Plasma Products (SPP) is looking for a strategic partner;]] [[points out that the government should retain a majority stake in Sanquin Plasma Products,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29447-55]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-9.u7	In addition to the motion tabled, the following. The Minister said in the consultations we had that it was loss-making. I will not deny that, because that is what the figures show. But of course it is also about the long-term perspective and the long-term interest. We have a long tradition in this area. We also have a lot of knowledge. In any case, the SP considers it very important that we keep control of that provision. Hence the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-9.u8	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the parliamentary term. I'm suspending the meeting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-9.u9	The Minister for Medical Care has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-9.u10	Thank you, Mr President. In the first motion, the motion in part No. 53, the government is invited to investigate the impact of donor selection policies based on sexual risk behaviour on blood safety and the possibilities of changing the Dutch donor selection policy based on target groups into a donor selection policy based on sexual risk behaviour, without compromising blood safety. It's very clear and clear in the motion. I wish it were that easy to organize. I think we would all see the combination of two desirable developments. One is that we always keep safe blood and the other is that we can welcome more male donors from the MSM group as donors. Sanquin has recently said that he wants nothing more than that the MSM can be treated in the same way as the non-risk groups when giving blood. Unfortunately, the figures show that within this group there are far more blood transmittable infectious diseases than within the general population. Sanquin is, however, something that I think is important to appoint and continue to do so in order not to make his donor selection policy more stringent than is necessary and does research where possible. As always, the questioner has also indicated this himself, the safety of the blood supply is paramount. To date, there are no experiences and research results of a specific donor selection policy for MSM based on individual risk behaviour, such as monogamy. Sanquin and his sister organisations in other countries have been in regular contact over the last few years with regard to these research opportunities. To date no one has been able to formulate a suitable research proposal, nor has Sanquin. Now you can say you have to leave it at that. I believe that the motion calls for a look, even in the coming period, at whether such a research method can be found. There's a question in the motion for a timeline. Maybe I can explain the motion in such a way that I will give you an update around the summer of next year to see if Sanquin has managed to come up with a research methodology. But that research technique hasn't been found yet. I would like to stress this because I also reported this to the Chamber in my letter of 29 October, I say memorized it. So we don't have him yet, but it's interesting to look through. So if I may read the motion in this way, then I will choose a little narrow explanation; I realize that well then I could give Chamber judgment to this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-9.u11	There's a little discussion between the proposers. Mrs. Ellemeet, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-9.u12	What I, along with colleagues Tellegen and Dijkstra, intend to do with this motion is to really take a step further. We are constantly looking at what we can, but we are marking threes that this is not enough so far, and we are not saying that it is not complicated. So we really want to see how an independent investigation can be done and all the expertise that is there can be involved, so that we can donate it to that very large group of men in 99.9% of these men, there is no increased chance of infections, for those others to donate blood, just like for heterosexual men. We would like to have examined this with all possible expertise. And that must be an independent investigation as far as we're concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-9.u13	That is different from what I am saying; we need to be precise. I said in my letter of 1 October that such a research method has not yet been found. It is not easy to get there either, because I would have informed your Chamber otherwise. I'll take it on board, along with Sanquin, to see if that research method can be found. This is not something Sanquin only does when we ask for it, because they are constantly looking at which research methods they can find. I'd like to update you on that next summer. Then you will see the active attitude both of me and of Sanquin, but it is now stuck with the research methodology. That is important again, because we have all talked about this, as Mrs Ellemeet has said, that blood supply in the Netherlands must never be endangered.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-9.u14	What we want is to involve as much new and additional expertise as possible. You can look abroad. We know that other countries have made it more accessible to these groups on the basis of individual risk selection. These data can be used to check whether we can safely apply individual risk selection here. We can see what we can do with the plasma database in Israel, for example. So there are interesting developments abroad that could be involved in this investigation. I'd like to ask the Minister to take another step. It's very good and I have every confidence that Sanquin is also looking at what's possible. It is nice that VWS wants to help with that, but I would ask the Minister not to put all the fences around it now. Let us look above all, I ask the Minister what expertise and information there are abroad that we can involve in this and let us make it broader in that sense than what Sanquin, with all due respect, is already doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-9.u15	You will not hear from this side of the coin no on this motion. At the same time, everyone in this room and beyond wants blood to remain safe in the Netherlands. What matters is that we have the right research methodology available. We will also have to look at other countries. In fact, Sanquin also looks at other countries. Sanquin talks with France and Israel, but also with other countries. So I focus more on the research methodology. I would very much like to see if we can see any developments in that in the coming period. I'll give you an update on that. I'll do that around the summer. That's as positive as I can be. Otherwise I would have been more positive in my letter of 29 October.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-9.u16	Finally, I would also like to conclude, Mrs Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-9.u17	In conclusion, Mr President. I hear the Minister say that he takes this appeal from my colleagues and me, to see if we can come to a desired research methodology, take it very seriously and implement it as realistic as possible but as well as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-9.u18	I wanted to present to you what you can, but also what you can't. I really do that in a very realistic way. You wouldn't ask me otherwise on a sensitive subject as a blood supply.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-9.u19	That concludes that you've come together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-9.u20	Yes. It was a bit of a handshake, but with this explanation I leave the judgment on the motion in part No. 53 to the Chamber. In the motion in part No. 54 the government is invited to start a national pilot together with Sanquin for the summer of 2020 on the donation of blood plasma by the MSM group. I advise against this motion. For example, blood plasma is used for medicines. We know that the pharmaceutical industry does not want to use blood plasma from this group of men, the MSM group. That means that plasma then by... How do you say that nicely? That means it's being thrown away. I think that's a shame. I don't think that's the way it should be. I therefore advise against the motion in part No. 54.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-9.u21	This motion is not so much about the effect of the technique, so you use the plasma over there and before. This motion indicates that there are possibilities to test plasma and possibly explain it clean. I'm talking about getting away from the distinction based on sexual orientation or sexual behavior. I'm concerned about the risk that's being taken. The fact that it is not currently accepted by manufacturers and pharmaceuticals is a pity, but that is in fact secondary to what I want to say, namely: you can actually test plasma. I've become one of those people through Sanquin. Then it may be that at some point you say: there is no question of clean plasma. But then, at least, there was no consideration of the donor's sexual behavior or sexual orientation. Then the risk was looked at.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-9.u22	I took another argument. I find it deadly and mortally sinful when plasma is there and has to be used for something, is not used and is discarded. I do not think that we can deal with blood given by voluntary donors in this way. And then there is the point of substance mentioned by Mrs Dijkstra. That plasma is currently released after four months and a second test. This gives certainty for a number of diseases: hepatitis B and C, HIV and syphilis. But this certainty is not there for other pathogens. It is a fact that under MSM there is also a much higher risk of hepatitis A, herpes viruses, gonorrhea, chlamydia and an aggressive variant of it. There are therefore several reasons why this motion should continue to be discouraged.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-9.u23	As I have just said, the information from Sanquin himself has shown me that you can explain yourself clean. I suppose "clean" isn't just what the minister calls it. There's a chance you won't be able to use that plasma after all, I'll acknowledge it. That's too bad, too. That will also be a disappointment for the donor. But I am very much concerned about the basic idea behind this: you look at risk and not at sexual orientation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-9.u24	Then I'll bring my two arguments together. I would like to stress that the industry does not accept the methods of testing that I have just appointed. That plasma isn't being used. Then it's a real shame to throw that plasma away. So I'm gonna stick to dissuading the motion. Mr. Chairman. Then I have one more, namely the motion in part No. 55. It states that the government must retain a majority stake in Sanquin Plasma Products. We have no majority stake in Sanquin Plasma Products. That's a private legal entity, so I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-9.u25	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-9.u26	This brings us to the end of the examination of this report of a written consultation. We shall also be voting on these motions next Tuesday.
