ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u1	I give the floor to Mr Azarkan, who will ask questions to the Secretary of State for Justice and Security about the news that more asylum children disappeared from shelters last year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr President, thank you. Moreover, it remains strange to see a Secretary of State getting a spin on his ears when he shows his humanity. Mr. Chairman. This morning we were shocked by a report in the media about missing children. Normally all kinds of alarm bells go off when children disappear in the Netherlands. People are moving. Bodies are taking action. But that didn't happen in 210 cases last year. No AMBER Alert, no excitement on Twitter, because this concerns asylum children, and then we obviously react differently. Defence for Children states that the fear of detention and expulsion among families is so great that they prefer illegality to return to the country of origin. In doing so, the intimidation by arrest teams of sometimes ten men, who drive people away like criminals, plays a major role. According to researchers from the Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, the constant uncertainty and many relocations lead to chronic stress among those children. Mr. Chairman. This then leads to an uncontrollable situation for our society, and ultimately to homelessness, hunger, nuisance, crime, exploitation and perhaps also prostitution. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats finds this extremely worrying. That's why I'm asking the Secretary of State the following questions. 1. How can children disappear in the Netherlands? 2. Does that mean that in practice they go into illegality? Or are they gonna leave the country? 3. How can this significant increase of 20% compared to last year be explained? 4. Is it true that the disappearances are related to the aggressive manner in which arrest teams operate and the fear of detention?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u3	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u4	Mr. Chairman. What was in the paper this morning is happening. There are indeed families with children who have been put to work and who are leaving the shelter. Until 2011, the shelter stopped as if you were finished. Since 2011, it has been pointed out by the judge that if you have children under 18, at least basic care must be provided. But since you have no right of residence, return or expulsion will follow as soon as possible. I think that is also the reason why some families with children leave the shelter, because we have seen that for years. They want to get ahead of the eviction. We suspect that sometimes they also think: I'm leaving the Netherlands; maybe I'm going to try elsewhere in Europe. We don't know. Illegality is not a criminal offence. It's a residential facility; it's not a prison. I also believe that there are many groups here who want detention for aliens for expulsion, but who do not want people to be taken further into detention. In short, that is the answer to the first question, the question of how. Mr Azarkan made the link with AMBER Alert. But these are children who, together with their parents, at the direction of their parents or at the initiative of their parents, leave care as a family. What happens next? Mr. Azarkan asked if they were involved in illegality. We have suspicions of that, but we don't know that. In any case, we know that not all people who leave the shelter in the Netherlands remain in illegality in the Netherlands, because these numbers are not in line with the biennial illegal assessment we make in the Netherlands. The suspicion is that a number of countries are going to other countries. Some will be living in illegality, but I give it to you on a note: living in illegality in the overregulated Netherlands with DigiD et cetera will not be easy for everyone either. Something was said about the sharp increase last year. We're actually seeing a fairly constant picture. It could rather be that in 2017 there was a small dip in the numbers. It is a fairly constant picture, but it fluctuates, of course, if you compare it with the influx you had a few years before, because at the moment when people have had a few procedures and have been put out, then eventually the moment comes when they have to leave the country. We saw a high influx a few years ago, so that could be an explanation, but we don't know. We also dive further into the figures ourselves. Finally, the method of expulsion. Until a few years ago, a family was picked up in the course of the day, but the downside was that you often didn't have a family completely together. Since then, it has begun to do so at the beginning of the day, but it is humane. I don't recognize myself in the picture that this would happen aggressively. I can, of course, imagine that the suspicion that it is going to happen leads to a lot of stress, but that is to be avoided. If parents accept the inevitable and voluntarily cooperate in returning to the country of origin, then a world of opportunities will open up that does not need to lead to forced expulsion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u5	Thanks for the answer. The Secretary of State doesn't have a visual on numbers. This has been shared by the previous Secretary of State here once, but that is extremely worrying, because we do not know whether these people are in the Netherlands, whether they are in illegality, or whether they can count on basic care. I ask the Secretary of State if he feels sufficient responsibility to address this problem and ensure that it goes to a lower level?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u6	Correction: It's not true that I don't see numbers. We can see numbers, but we don't know all the individual reasons behind them. We know from this group that it does not have a lawful stay in the Netherlands. I can easily predict that a large part of that group, which itself knows, will act and think: I am leaving the shelter, because at least there I am traceable for forced return to the country of origin. We also know that it concerns families with parents, where parents are still responsible. It's not like those parents were kicked out of parental control and there's a government guardian. This is primarily about parental decisions, for themselves and for their children. I think that's a bad decision, but I can't make that decision again for those parents. The consequence will be that some of those people live in illegality and some of them seek refuge in other countries where it is unlikely to succeed if there has already been a procedure in the Netherlands. Another part will sooner or later, whether or not due to damage and shame, go to the country of origin, but that is ultimately not our responsibility anymore. These people have gone through a procedure in the Netherlands that ended in a rejection. This includes the obligation to then comply with the obligation to leave. That is a responsibility that certainly lies with the parents and not with the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u7	Is the Secretary of State saying that this is not his responsibility and that he is therefore not taking any action? Or is he saying that he wants the number to remain as low as possible and that he will come up with measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u8	We take many measures, in those family locations, but also in other locations. The DT&V is also there, the IND, but also other organisations that can accompany voluntary return, such as the IOM. We also have other aid agencies. We have taken a palette of measures, but they are aimed at fulfilling the obligation to leave. I cannot take any other measure by saying: you may still stay. That procedure has gone through.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-5.u9	I thank the Secretary of State for coming to the Chamber. This brings us to the end of the first oral Question Time of 2019. I shall suspend for a few moments and then proceed with the work.
