ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u1	Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Van Toorenburg for her question on help for next of kin after a murder. The question is put to the Secretary of State for Justice and Security, whom I also welcome. The Secretary of State will replace the Minister for Legal Protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last Friday the documentary OverLeven was shown in Utrecht, a moving documentary about the aftermath of the murder of Nadia van de Ven, a 25-year-old student who was murdered by the son of her landlord. The documentary was made by Richard Grootbod, who followed the next of kin for six years, mother Minke and sister Lucinda. The way they had to go in order to obtain any satisfaction was dragging and poignant. In the presence of more than 200 police, justice, Victim help The Netherlands and many relatives spoke about the documentary during a conference organised by sister Lucinda. I was there, and the concerns that have been shared there give me reason to put oral questions on this today. But bear in mind: some of the concerns of the mother and the sister have been taken away. Much has already been achieved in the time that has passed, as far as the position of next of kin is concerned. But still... There are very great fears that part of what has been achieved will soon be destroyed, because a bill is in the process of organising a beautiful provision, namely a sort of collapse. If a criminal court finds compensation too complicated, he can forward the case to a civil court, but it seems that the advance payment system, which is so helpful to his relatives, will be abolished. Then the victims actually fall from the rain into the drip. I have to say, they'll come from the rain in the drip. I'd like a reaction to that. This week, there were once again very serious concerns about the legal support of victims, because that has already been on television a few times. Even the prosecutor in the case has indicated that much more legal assistance is needed. He's pleading for expert lawyers. We've done that before. So I would like to know from the Secretary of State about the specific legal aid package for victims.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u3	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As you said, today I am replacing Minister Dekker, who cannot be present because of personal circumstances. I'm very concerned about what Nadia's next of kin had to endure. That's terrible. I can well imagine that the long-term legal procedures have also caused a great deal of additional suffering. It has lasted for ten years and yet the solution is not really a solution by which you can say that there is satisfaction. Luckily, however, I can also say that help to the next of kin has improved considerably. Mrs Van Toorenburg also referred to this. It's no longer comparable to 2002, the year Nadia was killed. There are now victims' lawyers, who can assist relatives free of charge in the criminal proceedings; I will come back to that later. In addition, a next of kin can claim affection damage for intangible damage since 1 January of this year. In addition, the advance system was introduced in 2011 at the initiative of Members Wolfsen and Teeven of this Chamber. If it's assigned and if the unsub hasn't paid anything after eight months, then the victim gets an advance from the government. I think that the whole complex that exists today could have prevented a lot of the misery and suffering in Nadia's case, but it wasn't there at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u5	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u6	Let me now turn to the question about the legislative proposal that has now been consulted, namely the Innovation Law Criminal Procedure Bill. In short, the Innovation Law on Criminal Procedure comes down to this. No, let me rephrase. Today, a civil claim can also be considered in criminal proceedings. But there are often very complex civil claims, for example, to calculate the costs for someone who has become permanently disabled throughout the working period. Those are really complicated matters, and the criminal proceedings should not be burdened with them. In order to solve this problem, but above all to prevent a victim or a victim's next of kin from entering into hugely complex civil proceedings that they themselves have to carry out. This is very difficult and very complicated........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ That is actually a civil procedure, but, so to speak, on the slippage of criminal proceedings. These criminal proceedings have already taken place, but there is a special civil procedure in which these difficult questions can be answered. That means it's still a civil proceeding. In the current civil procedure system, a survivor or a victim cannot claim the advance payment scheme. That is not possible in the proposal either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u7	So there's a very big risk here. For we also hear from Victim Aid Netherlands that there is a fear that it will be referred more quickly to the special scheme that is being organized, but that this will immediately cancel the advance payment scheme. That's poignant. But more points have been raised, including the arbitrariness with regard to determining pain money. Victim support The Netherlands calls for a definition of what is happening there and for that to be analysed. How does the Secretary of State feel about that? The Council of Justice has also indicated that it is struggling with this. Later, when it's out itself, he actually wants to talk to Victim Help Netherlands. I ask the Secretary of State to intercede in that, so that it goes together and they come out together. And there is another very poignant situation. Because the worst drama is when a mother loses her child because of such a terrible crime. It simply cannot function at all. She just can't work at all anymore. Inability to work is a very big problem. Then the parents are in the cold too. Finally, Mr President. It has also been reiterated that it is very important for survivors to be heard when deciding on the extension of a TB. We're actually very curious about what's going on with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u8	Reference is made to a legal aid package for victims with specialised assistance. There is already free legal aid, in any case in the case of serious cases, namely serious cases of violence and vice. There's free legal aid. There has also been investment in specialised training for criminal attorneys who know just that. This has now become a real specialism and has also been invested by the government. In 2018, an evaluation was carried out by the WODC. In any case, it has emerged from this that access to these specialised lawyers is still far from being the same. That is why we are now working on pilots on legal aid packages.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u9	Then I'll stick to my questions. I do not want the victims of the rain to fall into the drip. Survivors who could first obtain a claim from a criminal court will then be paid with an advance. After that, the government often tries to get it from the bald chicken. If many more cases are later transferred to the civil court, there will be many more survivors in the cold. We don't want that. Let that signal be clear today. I have also asked whether the pain money arrangements can be analysed, because it is a little arbitrary. Mrs Jansen van Victim's Aid The Netherlands does not say that for nothing. We would like that to be looked at. We want the Justice Council to work together with Victim Aid Netherlands. That's very important. I'd also like to know what's going on with the decision on TBs. And I would like to know, because I haven't received an answer to that either, whether we are looking at a possibility of getting compensation for disability in the most dramatic situations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u10	Mr. Chairman. Of course, the pain money scheme is always a decision tailored to the needs of the judge, apart from the affection damage. There are fixed amounts for affection damage in the Decision on payment affection damage. This is up to €20,000 in case of death or severe permanent injury due to a crime. I must point out that, in particular, the granting of pain money outside the affection damage is for customization. It depends on the victim. It depends on the person asking for the pain money. That decision is up to the judge. I think it is incredibly wise that the Council should be in contact with Victims' Help in this area before the Court of Justice. They should definitely do that. I must say, however, that I believe that as a government, the Ministry of Security and Justice, we should not interfere in the granting of pain money; that is a tailor-made case for the individual judge or court. That's one. The second question has slipped my mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u11	You may repeat that, Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u12	I wanted to know about the situation that next of kin can make their voices heard in an extension of the TBs. However, I would point out to the Secretary of State that she does not understand my problem that it is being moved too quickly to judges, which ultimately brings the advance payment system to an end.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u13	The draft bill for the advance payment scheme has been consulted and that consultation has now been completed. This means that everything that has come out of it is used to see how the scheme can best be, what results it has achieved. That may be that it must lead to some adjustments. Maybe the law needs to be slightly modified or not. Then it comes to the Council of Ministers, then an opinion comes from the Council of State and then it comes back to the Council of Ministers. Only then will it go to the House of Representatives, but I do not have to explain that to Mrs Van Toorenburg. The consultation is there for a reason. It is there to catch all those sounds well and precisely to know what is living in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u14	Thank you. Thank you, Mrs Van Toorenburg. Mr Van Nispen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u15	Mr. Chairman. We must do justice to the situation of victims and survivors. The government should be there for you if you need her. This is, of course, particularly the case for survivors and victims. That advance arrangement is very important for many people. I fully agree with the CDA when it says that this position could deteriorate as a result of the legislative proposal. So victims are on their own. Now the government can help people advance such compensation. Otherwise they will have to go after that bald chicken themselves and that is of course a very bad idea. I understand the Secretary of State's procedural response. She says it's going to the Council of Ministers now and we're all gonna look at it. I actually want to agree that we do not go back in time, namely a limitation of that advance payment. Can we still receive a letter before the general consultation Victim's policy, a committee debate with the Minister on this matter, in which he promises that the government will stand, that people can continue to count on the government if they need it, and that the advance arrangements will continue to apply?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u16	The advance system as it currently exists will continue to apply. That's clip-and-ready. I am now talking about the Innovation Act on Criminal Procedure and the civil proceedings it proposes on the slippage of criminal proceedings. Only in that civil procedure in a complex case is the advance payment system not applied. But it's a civil procedure. If a victim or a next of kin is now in civil proceedings, he has as many rights as in the proposal here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u17	The question was whether the Chamber for General Consultation would be informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u18	I'm just trying to answer the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u19	On a non-asked question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u20	That question was also asked, implicitly. In that case too, the person in charge of the civil proceedings cannot rely on the advance payment scheme. So in the end, whoever runs the procedure is making a huge leap forward. Legal aid is for nothing, the procedure is for nothing and so on. So it is a procedure that the victim and/or next of kin...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u21	And now for the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u22	They're asking for a letter. I think Minister Dekker will have no objection to that. There is an AO Victim's Help on 27 November and he will undoubtedly be prepared to give his answer. I owed Mrs Van Toorenburg an answer on the TBs. That bill will be sent to the House of Representatives in the near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u23	Okay, well, then that's clear. Mr Van Wijngaarden on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The family of Nadia van de Ven has actually experienced two dramas. First, of course, the indescribable drama of the loss of their neighbor, their child, and then again such an endless procedure. I would like to ask the cabinet to include in the letter which has just been promised what is now the ambition of the cabinet to shorten the lead times in civil proceedings as well. I fully understand that these procedures are complex and may sometimes take a long time, but I still believe that we, as legislators, have a duty to see how we can help to shorten them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u25	This is a difficult matter because there are many procedures to be carried out and it is not possible to say: we give priority to procedure A, because case A seems more tragic than case B. There is simply an agenda for the judiciary, at any court or court. It is being worked hard to ensure that lead times are as short as possible, but that is not always easy, because things can be hugely complex.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u26	And that's also included in that letter, I suppose. That was the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u27	I'll put it to Minister Dekker.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u28	Mr Van Wijngaarden for one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u29	The VVD also advocates involving Victim Aid The Netherlands, as has also been said by Mrs Van Toorenburg. Thank you for the Secretary of State's commitments just now. Finally, I think that we agree that the next of kin will get their money faster and thus have to wait less long for that. So why don't you let that come back in that letter? That's my request.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u30	I would just like to correct something with regard to Mr Van Wijngaarden. As far as the lead times are concerned, I have said that I will present it to the Minister. I did not say that this was in the same letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u31	I'd like to ask the Secretary of State to present something to the Minister. It is very special that a sister and a mother could have fought such a battle. I know the minister talks more often with his next of kin. My pressing request is to have an intensive conversation with them about the things they have run into and where they see opportunities for improvement. I think we are doing them justice with so many powerful signals they have given, to go round the table with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u32	I think it is indeed very good to hear from Nadia's family, no matter how tragic that may be, what they have been up against and what they have been through, because that can only benefit the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-4.u33	Thank you. That also brings us to the end of Question Time. I'm suspending the meeting until 3:00. Then we are going to swear Mr Smalls of the VVD and then we are going to vote.
