ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u1	The next item is the debate on the State of the European Union 2019. I would like to welcome all those present in the Chamber and in the public gallery, as well as those following this sitting in a different way. In particular, I welcome the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister. I would also like to welcome the representatives of the European Parliament. They are among us today and will take part in the debate. Members of the European Parliament present may take the floor. That must be an informational input. However, the Dutch Members of the European Parliament are not allowed to interfere with the members of the House of Representatives, the governors and the prime minister. We have no less than twenty speakers in this debate. Mr Anne Mulder may open the debate on behalf of the VVD Group. I call Mr Anne Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u2	Mr. Chairman. Today, we are talking about what we have built up in the Netherlands and the European Union in terms of security and prosperity and how we can maintain and increase it in the future. The world around us is unstable. Brexit, Russia, the Middle East, migration from Africa, and China, which is moving more and more. In this unstable world, we are increasing our prosperity and security in the European Union, because we are a relatively small country with 17 million out of 500 million inhabitants, and we make a lot of money in the European Union with our exports. This leads to economic growth, jobs and tax revenues, from which we can pay our care and pensions. At the same time, support for the EU has increased in the Netherlands. This support is strong, but it is also fragile, as the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau has shown. The Dutch know well that we are benefiting from the European Union. They feel it is a necessity, but it is not the case that they are dragging EU flags through the streets. The VVD shares this realistic view. I'll get to the Brexit. The Brexit shows that nexit is not a good idea. British society has been divided to the bone. The British Parliament does not know exactly how it intends to shape the Brexit. And while Brexit hasn't even taken place, the pound has already fallen in value, British purchasing power has fallen by almost 20% and companies are leaving the UK. So you shouldn't want a nexit as the Netherlands. That is why I would like to ask the next parties in Parliament, as far as they are present, because there is already one missing, how they see next and how exactly they should, because the British do not know that. So I'm gonna draw them out a little bit. The Dutch interest is paramount for the VVD. This means working with EU Member States without seeking a superstate at EU level. As far as we are concerned, the EU should focus on the major cross-border concerns that countries cannot solve themselves. I call it climate, security and migration. I also call it the completion of the internal market. I told you, we export a lot, but there can be a little bit more on top of that, so that we can make more money from it, which we can all benefit from. And keep it practical, too. People have more to gain from the abolition of roaming charges and judicial cooperation than from grand visions. That brings me to the rule of law. The rule of law is under attack in a number of EU countries, including Poland and Hungary. That's what hits us right away. Dutch judges no longer hand over suspects to Poland. And that will compromise our safety. Why? Because Polish judges are no longer independent enough. That's impossible, isn't it? Does the government want to appeal to Poland about this? And then Hungary. It is absurd that the Hungarian Government does not want to participate in a visit by a fellow EU Member State to that country. 'Cause what's going on out there is affecting all of us, and we have to work together, right? We all benefit from that. The Netherlands also pays to the European budget and that money goes back to Hungary. So I'd like a response from the cabinet. It says here, "Don't pronounce, lead to further escalation." I will not, but I see the Hungarian ambassador and he knows exactly what I mean. Then "a deal is a deal." Instead of more European Union, we would like countries to stick to the agreement, for example the Growth and Stability Pact. Countries can easily get away with violating these criteria on a budget deficit. This is not good for the stability of the euro and therefore not good for the Dutch interest. Because this stability of the euro contributes to prosperity and jobs. The Commission must show courage and say something about it. Then you see two things in the European Commission. They have many tasks at the same time, they have to assess and enforce the budget. You can see that in competition too. They make the laws and they have to enforce them; Mrs. Vestager. Is that desirable? Shouldn't you cut that? Here in the Netherlands we also have an independent supervisor, the Competition Authority, now the ACM? Shouldn't that also be at European level? Then we also have the spitzen candidate. The current President, Juncker, from Luxembourg, calls himself 'a political Commission', but is that wise? Are you still the objective, neutral guardian of the treaties? We don't think so. Therefore, my question to the cabinet: would you like to ensure that a next Commission is working on the separation of functions? I mentioned the Stability and Growth Pact. And don't you want to join us in that spitzen-candidate trial? The Treaty states that the European Council is sitting there, Prime Minister Rutte, who should be President of the Commission, taking into account the results of the European Parliament, and may then say yes or no to the European Parliament. Let us keep it that way, so that we do not have another political chairman, because that is not in the Dutch interest. Then defense. We were in Brussels last week with a number of colleagues. That was a good visit, but then you see that more and more defence tasks are gradually going to the European Commission: a European Defence Fund, a peace facility. There's even talk of a defense commissioner. Now the cabinet says that it has to be intergovernmental, so Heads of Government need to talk about this and not the Commission, simply put. How is this cabinet going to counter this tendency on the part of the Commission to attract things? Finally, I come to new allies. The European Union, like the Binnenhof, is a political marketplace. There you have to wheel and deal, you don't get your way everywhere, but you have to negotiate smart and tough. The Prime Minister's nodding. We have also seen this with the Minister of Finance, who created a so-called Hanseatic coalition to protect our interests in the euro. How does the Netherlands do that? That leads me to two questions. Are we capable of creating change if we want to make alliances? Secondly, if that is the case and if we want to achieve something in concrete terms and lead coalitions, then perhaps we should not take too fast a position in the European Union, not because we are vague, but precisely because we want to achieve something and lead a coalition? Can the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister say anything about what building a coalition in Europe means?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u3	I think Mr Mulder was at the end of his speech, because I was actually waiting for that. Is it true that Mr Mulder says: is it really not sensible to take a harsh tone against Orbán on the rule of law, which is actually at stake in Hungary?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u4	Hard tone. I think you should be very clear towards Orbán and towards Poland. I just said that. It is about the rule of law, but it also directly affects the Netherlands. If the rule of law is at stake in one of the countries of the European Union and no suspects from the Netherlands go to those countries, then it directly affects our security and the concerns of our people, so you have to say something about that. You should definitely do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u5	However, I hear that it is said right away that the ambassadors should not play too hard on them either, while the Netherlands is playing a rather heavy role with regard to Italy and the euro. Do you think it is right that there should be a distinction, that there should be harsh words about Italy and much less harsh words about Hungary?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u6	No, I'm not. We must also use harsh words against Hungary. That's what we did here in the Chamber. We have insisted: 'Dear European Commission', we are now triggering the Article 7 procedure against Hungary, which could lead to the surrender of rights in the European Union. So we really need to take a firm stand against that and say something about it. It has to be in a diplomatic tone and that's why I corrected myself for a moment, because I wanted to bless something I shouldn't say. But it's about good performance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u7	Mrs Buitenweg, I just wanted to allow a question and a follow-up question, because we have 20 speakers. Mr. Asscher, you heard, didn't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u8	Twenty speakers, I heard. Can Mr Mulder tell me how many times the word'social' or the word 'worker' appears in his party's European election programme, the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u9	I didn't count them, but I'm sure Mr. Asscher did. And that means he read it right, which is always good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u10	It's not much trouble to count it. The word "social" is mentioned once, in the case of "social committee"; at that time it really could not be avoided. That's as far as it goes. Maybe it's under the "no provocative, no pronunciation" section. However, I think it is important that we in Europe also look at the protection of workers from dangerous substances and unemployment, within the framework of the Brexit. We know that the VVD jumps on the barricades to defend the multinationals; that is allowed. But I would also ask Mr Mulder to reveal to us that part of his speech, the vision of how to continue social life in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u11	Let's see what I just said. I said: Europe must create jobs. That's what Europe's for. That is labour, I say to the Labour Party. So I did say something about workers, namely that we need economic growth for our exports and for jobs. That's really social. If there are a lot of people at work, you have fewer benefits. And the people who really can't do it, you can pay for it. So "social" comes from economic growth, which we share fairly again. So jobs are number one. You should appeal to that, Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u12	Well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u13	This is a very exciting story by Mr Mulder, but we can see that Europe is still competing on lower labour costs, lower labour costs. We see that in Europe you can gain an advantage by treating employees worse. This is bad for the Dutch companies, I say to the VVD's companies', but it is especially bad for the Dutch job seekers and employees. My question is: is the VVD prepared to support us in this, in order to have an ambitious agenda in this respect?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u14	If Mr Asscher and I also know him from previous debates on social affairs, and if I am so kind as to support him, then I must always see what he means. But if we are talking about equal pay for the same work, then I think we should take that starting point. I say it carefully: sharing the starting point. Mr. Asscher is already smiling, so he's coming up with another very clever proposal, which we're gonna see if we're gonna support.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u15	Those VVD jobs, it takes two or three to get around, so whether you have to say they're social... The VVD says that Europe's support is fragile. We are not going through the streets with European flags, and one of the reasons for this is that the big money, the importance of multinationals, in Europe sounds much harder than the interest of ordinary people, ordinary workers, animals and the environment. And what does the VVD think of our forward-looking post there, our Permanent Representation, going hand in hand with the big business and being seen as some sort of extra lobby dome to get laws and regulations through in Europe that are good for the automotive industry and the arms industry, but which are actually not good for our people or for our social rights?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u16	You should always be careful not to create a false contradiction between what Mrs Leijten calls a little popular big business and the worker. They go hand in hand. If a company does well, a company hires a lot of people and benefits a lot of people. The company benefits, and the people benefit from the jobs. So the contradiction between labour and capital that Mrs Leijten apparently wants to incite is not there at all. In fact, labour and capital must work together; then you get economic growth and jobs and prosperity. We can build them all together and protect them. So I don't see that contradiction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u17	Thank you for this economic college that doesn't make any sense. We've seen that. Take Shell. Shell made 80% more profit last year, making 80% more profit! And our officials in Brussels are lobbying for Shell. Is the VVD okay with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u18	Let's say I work at Shell in Pernis. If you look closely at the election results in Rotterdam, they have been very red in recent decades. It's possible. These people know damn well why business is good, because it gives them their jobs. So it's very wise for a company like Shell to do well. This leads to those jobs that many people in Rotterdam benefit greatly from. That is not an economic college; that is just how an economy works.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u19	Now answer the question. Does the VVD agree that our officials, who have to take account of the Dutch interest, are lobbying for a company that is making billions of profits and should be able to pay for its own lobby? I've already asked this question twice. I'd like an answer to that. Is the VVD okay with our officials lobbying for Shell?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u20	I do not know exactly who lobbied for what, but more generally, I think it would be wise for our officials in Brussels to stand up for Dutch companies, for all the reasons I have just outlined, because we want to have those jobs. That's why we do that. Otherwise we will have another debate here about unemployment or disappointing tax revenues. So it goes hand in hand. It's not a company against the Netherlands. It's... together. Perhaps Mrs Leijten could take some interest in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u21	Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u22	I therefore note that the VVD agrees that officials, who should be independent, are lobbying for a billion-dollar company...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u23	This isn't a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u24	... that it hasn't taken so close to the interests of Groningen in recent decades.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u25	And I find that the SP doesn't care so much about economic growth in the Netherlands. I don't know who she's doing a favor with. I don't think anyone at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u26	Mrs. Maeijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u27	Like Mr Asscher, I went through the European Parliament's election programme of the VVD. I didn't think it was advisable, I say for the people who are listening now, but I still want to go through a few points with Mr. Mulder. This programme says that it is undesirable that steps should be taken towards a transfer union. But the VVD is voting against a motion that called for the rejection of any euro area budget in any form. The program says we need to get a grip on migration. But the VVD was in favour of signing the Marrakesh Pact and abstained from voting on an amendment in the European Parliament that said it was a sign of state sovereignty to decide for itself on the nature and extent of migration. The third point it contains is that Europe does not interfere with our pensions. Now your colleague was just critical of Ecofin, but you are voting against motions that say that pension policy is a national matter. So what is the true story of the VVD? I've completely lost you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u28	Let's start with what once was a euro area budget. This was a plan of France in particular to transfer an additional 1,000 billion to the European Union for a euro area budget. And look what has happened now: by cleverly negotiating by Minister Hoekstra with his Hanseatic League, the eurozone budget has been negotiated off the table. There is now a convergence mechanism. That is what the VVD stands for: smart negotiating in Europe, making the wrong proposals go away by smart and tough negotiation. That is different from saying "no, no" everywhere here and pleading for a nexit without knowing where that leads. That's the big difference between the PVV and the VVD. The VVD ensures that things come together in Europe and the PVV stands on the side of shouting "no, no, no."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u29	I put three points to Mr Mulder: the transfer union, migration and pensions. So far, I have received a half answer to the first. That was actually the answer: if we put a different label on it in Brussels, we can agree to it. Mr. Mulder, would you mind taking a second shot at an answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u30	It is good to hear that the first part is apparently well answered. We've just been negotiating against a transfer union. That has also been quite successful. Then migration. I said that we should solve this through Europe. Start by addressing the root causes of migration in Africa. Try to make agreements with countries such as the Turkey deal, which has proved successful. Mrs Maeijer was against it, but the deal led to a reduction in migration. If people come here when they have no right to asylum, we should try to send them back quickly. That's how you discourage migration. People don't have to go to trial for long. It is an example of how the VVD negotiates in Europe, Prime Minister Rutte first. The Turkey deal led to a decrease in influx and who was against it? The PVV, because they always say 'no, no, no' to Europe, with the result that they do not solve the problems and are side by side. That doesn't do you any good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u31	You can't get a grip on migration if you sign the Marrakech Pact. You cannot get a grip on migration if you say that we give Brussels that sovereignty to deal with the nature and extent of migration. Mr. Mulder, your story is drowning. What's on your program is something other than what you're doing here. What you are doing here is different from what you are doing in Brussels. The fact that Mr Verhofstadt was lyrical about the program also says enough. You mentioned people who do not go out on the streets with flapping EU flags, but I do not know about the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u32	I have mentioned two examples of clever negotiations that help Dutch people. And I see a PVV that's only side by side with "this is no good." Well, I'm curious to hear in a moment if the PVV still wants a nexit and, if so, how exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u33	Thank you, Mr. Anne Mulder. I now give the floor to Mr Van Baalen on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u34	Thank you, Madam President. Just before the debate began, my colleague Mr Tang from the European Parliament said that this was my last state of the Union. I realized that. He said I could be emotional.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u35	I don't mind, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u36	If it's okay with you, I'll make it a small moment. I have been a member of the House of Representatives for ten years and have had these debates as a Member of Parliament. After that, I have done so for ten years as a Member of the European Parliament and a guest of your house. That was a wonderful time. I will not be in the European Parliament for the next five years, because you must also have a flow and give a new generation the opportunity. The interest will always remain. Now to the content. If the European Union had not existed, we should have invented it. Perhaps the position of Parliament or the Commission or the Council would have been different, but that cooperation is vital. Just look at the whole discussion in Britain and at the 27 about the Brexit. Much needs to be done to make all the negative aspects of a departure portable. It could have been otherwise. Let me make a comment about the discussion. The President of the European Council, Tusk, has reserved a place in hell for the hard Brexiteers. Such a remark leads to nothing. You must respect the people who want to leave the Union or who want to stay. Again, that remark doesn't help. The President of the European Commission, Juncker, said a few days before the Brexi meeting that the British were actually traitors by holding such a referendum. We have to treat each other with respect. One of the major problems in the European Union is decision-making. It takes a lot of time. When I joined the European Parliament ten years ago, a trade agreement with Japan was under discussion. Well, now it looks like that can be ratified. So that took ten years. Often the execution is also difficult. Decisions are not implemented or implementation takes a lot of time. This also costs the Union's reputation, including among its citizens. There is therefore often a need for speed and urgency. The European Council wants to hold a cascade of additional decision-making councils to speed up that decision-making. Of course, the Council will have to agree with the European Parliament and the Commission on this, but it is a good idea to keep this cascade of councils.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u37	I think Mr Van Baalen was right to make a point of the inappropriate remark made by President Tusk of the European Council. A special place in hell, Mr. Tusk is not about that. That is not his core competence and we simply need to speak properly, even with a country that has resigned, even if you disagree. How does Mr Van Baalen appreciate Mr Verhofstadt's comment on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u38	Mr Verhofstadt and I often speak, but we do not always speak the same language. I say that there must be respect for countries that want to leave the Union or change the Union and those that do not want to. That applies to everyone, and that also applies to Mr Verhofstadt or anyone else. But, of course, I am not going to comment on a remark that you do not mention. You'll have to give me a quote and show me what you mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u39	"Well, I doubt Lucifer would welcome them, as after what they did to Britain, they would manage even to divide hell." That was the point made by Mr Verhofstadt, who was somewhat on the line of Mr Tusk. I assume you'll be able to distance yourself from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u40	Let me put it this way: for Mr Tusk it was true that I did not think that was right. I therefore do not think that comment is correct. It doesn't lead to more understanding.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u41	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u42	Mr. Chairman. We talked about that cascade of decision-making councils. In foreign and security policy, of course, we need flexibility, speed, urgency and clarity. This applies to the VVD, both in Brussels and in The Hague, primarily within NATO, because without the United States it is impossible. If we were to organise our entire security and defence policy ourselves, it would cost far more than 2% of gross national product. It may even cost 10% of investment, and that is not going to happen. Then you must also want to deploy troops, not just for photo missions, as our German colleagues did over Libya, because then you will also have to carry out hard missions, military operations. Then, of course, the question is: a European army? I just think that's counterproductive, because every country has to decide whether it wants to broadcast military or not. In this case, that is the House of Representatives. But once again, we can look at a division of labour and military cooperation in the material field. That is all well and good, but in the end we must work together with the United States and invest more. Mr. Chairman. There was also talk about the VVD election programme, which would have led to great euphoria in Brussels. I didn't notice that, but it may have been up to me. I find it interesting that the VVD states that there should be more majority decision-making in the area of, say, the security and foreign dimension. This can be done in many ways, but you must always bear in mind that we too can be voted on, for example in the area of Middle East policy. Mr President, thank you and I am happy to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u43	Thank you, Mr. Van Baalen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u44	Good, Hans.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u45	Mrs. Maeijer has an informant... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Sorry, she has an interruption. No, it's the other way around!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's completely informative, you know. I have been in the European Parliament, like Mr Van Baalen, for about two and a half years. Mr Van Baalen just recalled that after ten years he was going to say goodbye to the EP. I couldn't find it anywhere and I don't know if you do, because it's in the VVD's new election programme that it's going to be mandatory for MEPs to disturb their unused expenses. I was actually wondering whether you are already doing so and, if not, if you intend to do so, now that the end of your term of office is near.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u47	Eventually, Dutch people are rightly interested in money. The VVD has an internal regime whereby unused money is returned at the end of the mandate. It is even true that only half is recorded and that also has to be explained to the VVD-central board. Like my colleagues, I will keep to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u48	That was a question with an informative character. Thank you, Mr. Van Baalen. Then I'll go to Mrs. Maeijer on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u49	Mr. Chairman. Everyone seems to be a little surprised that that was informative, but it really was. Mr. Chairman. Build air castles. This is usually quite innocent, unless those castles are actually built from tax money, for example in Bulgaria. Millions of euros have been wasted on building a plastic fake castle, a Playmobil castle, thanks to the European Union. And that can continue as a metaphor for Brussels: licked exterior, empty inside and also very expensive. It is actually an appropriate accommodation for the European Parliament. 'Cause where better to shove your blue carpet in than in your own fake castle? There, the Verhofstadts and Sargentini's of this world can literally spread their delusions over us from their ivory tower. The EP has, of course, been busy handing out money to Ethiopia over the past year and trying to declare Europe's Day as an official holiday for the EU's worship. An EU museum card was also voted on. Not to mention the criminal expedition against Hungary. That Parliament, which votes again if the result is not satisfactory, adapts its Rules of Procedure in such a way that, in future, they will determine jointly on the basis of political criteria whether political groups will be recognised, which blows the sky out of the sky over boyfriend political appointments in the European Commission but when it comes to it, a sovereign country takes the measure. Unbelievable and totally unbelievable. This is, of course, supported by the European Commission, with professional Eutrophy Juncker at the helm, who likes to move by private jet, 21 out of 43 trips, and fly over the world for thousands of euros. And that is the figurehead of the European Union and the captain of the currently 27 unelected bobos who know virtually no one, each running their own island, with a battery of civil servants and an idiotic salary. I ask the Prime Minister: when is the Netherlands going to make an effort to put an end to this ridiculous waste of money? Those officials, most of the Members of the European Parliament and the Commissioners, all have the same hobby, namely creating a problem, raising it and then demonstrating their own indispensableity in resolving it. Because if you're not indispensable, what right do you still have? What about this cabinet? This cabinet is falling apart. "The EU as a foundation for peace, security and prosperity, the Netherlands needs the EU." That's what we read in the state of the Union. If we repeat that mantra often enough, everyone will automatically believe in it, the idea, thus minimising our country, seems to be a province of the European Union. Because there are problems in abundance, such as the euro and the euro area, despite all propaganda. Meanwhile, we do know that the thick cheques do not arrive in our Netherlands, but disappear in foreign pockets under the guise of solidarity, to pay another's debts. And for years, rolling out the red carpet for asylum seekers led to a real asylum invasion. Praying the open borders of Schengen ensures the free movement of migrants and terrorists. And now Brussels, supported by the cabinet, declares itself indispensable to solving these self-created problems. The only thing it needs for that is, it's just a little thing that we're handing in little by little control, just as long as there's no longer national sovereignty, but European sovereignty, exactly as Juncker indicated in his happy last state of the Union. Giving up veto rights is a popular tool in Brussels, because these veto rights hinder the Union's decision-making ability. That is why last year there have been noises to move away from unanimity in areas of taxation and social affairs. The cabinet itself vetos some of its own in the field of foreign policy. In the European Parliament, there are noises that the multiannual budget should also be decided by qualified majority. Get rid of vetos! The right of veto is a powerful means and one of the few we have left. We must use it and defend it, not turn it in and turn it over to Brussels' grills. Mr. Chairman. The new parliamentary year for the EP began with a solemn celebration in plenary in honour of the 20th anniversary of the euro. In reality, the champagne was, of course, mostly uncorked because the euros that were praised were flowing in great numbers towards Brussels. The budget for 2019 needs to go up. Salaries went up. And as it now looks like, under the new multiannual budget too, the money will disappear richly in Brussels pockets: Dutch taxpayers' money. Mr. Chairman. It is time to separate ourselves from the European Union. And no, no one says that's gonna be easy. That'll show us the Brexit. But if that same Brexit shows us something, then it is the deep intertwinedness with Brussels, the length of the Brussels tentacles and the powers that have already been transferred. Sorry, my voice is a little...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u50	Emotionally?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u51	Well, I don't want to say that. A nexit is no longer about economics or prosperity, but about regaining our sovereignty, freedom, security and national identity. We need to get out of the European Union as soon as possible. Finally, Mr President, I would like to hear from the Prime Minister whether the President of the European Council, Mr Tusk, spoke on behalf of the Prime Minister when he wondered what the special place in hell for the Brexiters looked like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u52	To begin with, my compliments to the PVV, a next party that is there. The other next party never really shows up when we talk about Europe. That's too bad. My compliments on the PVV being here. I understand that Mrs Maeijer says the PVV still wants a nexit, despite the chaos. But how does Mrs. Maeijer see that nextit? Because what's the problem with the British? They want to get out, but they don't know exactly under what conditions, and they don't know what they want from Europe. Can Mrs Maeijer say how the PVV sees it, given the chaos in England?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u53	Of course we are here. I can certainly explain the next one to Mr Mulder. We have already included, in my view, in our electoral programme in 2012 how we see a nexit before us. You could leave the European Union. We used to call that the Swiss model. I have to say that Switzerland is not the Netherlands and the Netherlands is not Switzerland, so we are not going to copy it one-on-one. But you could join EFTA, for example, like Switzerland. In addition, like Switzerland, you could negotiate a series of bilateral agreements with the European Union, including on access to the internal market. However, unlike Switzerland, we would like to leave Schengen and, unlike Switzerland, we would not want to remain a member of Dublin. So, sort of.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u54	The most important thing is that you say "sort of." Let's take a specific look at Switzerland. Switzerland pays just over 300 million to the European budget and takes over 75% of European legislation, which it has no influence on. They have 120 bilateral treaties. When Switzerland held a referendum on migration quotas, it could not implement the result, because that would put at risk all the 120 bilateral treaties. So this is the model Mrs. Maeijer wants? 75% regulation from the European Union, a result of a referendum that you cannot carry out because otherwise you have lost the agreements and thus your economic growth and paying contributions; is that Mrs Maeijer's model?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u55	I do not think Mr Mulder listened very carefully, because one of the first things I just said is that the Netherlands is not Switzerland and Switzerland is not the Netherlands. So we're not going to copy the Swiss model one-on-one. Just before Mr. Mulder, I outlined in broad outline what it might look like. I just outlined that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u56	Finally, Mr Anne Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u57	This is exactly the point. Exactly! That's what the British are getting wet on. They don't know exactly what they want. They want something about it, but when you mention the disadvantages, they want something else. And if you go into that, they want something else. Let's go through with this. What do you want to take over from Switzerland and what not? I'd like to be as precise as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u58	Mr. Mulder, I just reported that. You could join EFTA and negotiate a series of bilateral agreements with the European Union, including an agreement on access to the internal market. We would like to leave Schengen, and we would not want to be part of Dublin. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u59	Thank you, Mrs Maeijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u60	It's...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u61	Thank you, Mr. Anne Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u62	... the same as the Brexiteers in Parliament, in the House of Commons: they don't know exactly and when you pin them on them, they slip away again. I expect clarity. Otherwise, the nexit is simply an uncertain adventure, of which all Dutch people are the victims.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u63	Can I still respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u64	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u65	The only thing the VVD knows is that we remain a member of the European Union and that we therefore agree to more immigration, more Islamisation and more loss of sovereignty. That is the only way the VVD knows as the way forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u66	Thank you, Mrs Maeijer. I now give the floor to Mr Omtzigt on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u67	Mr. Chairman. The CDA supports the government in its call for European cooperation. A divided Europe is an easy prey for superpowers with rediscovered self-confidence. Non-state actors, such as multinationals, tech companies and terrorists, are also becoming increasingly a threat. Even though we are doing well in the Netherlands, the Brexit shows that events in other EU Member States can have far-reaching consequences for us. Cross-border challenges must be addressed together. However, the Member States must be disciplined in meeting agreements, because that is the only way we can work together. My group is aiming for a fair European economy in which internal market rules strengthen Dutch competitiveness and do not curb it. It seeks a Europe that fights discrimination, inequality and xenophobia. Otherwise, we must protect Europe from the loss of self-esteem and traditions. Once again, there is an important European year ahead of us with many changes. In my speech, I would like to mention a few: Italy, the Brexit, the rule of law of the EU itself. We live in a special world. Where this collaboration is needed more than ever, we see these cracks. We see France withdrawing its ambassador from Italy today. We see the British don't figure out how they're going to shape the Brexit. We are seeing problems with the rule of law, at least in Hungary and Poland and possibly in a number of other countries. We also see corruption raging. Mr. Chairman. Let me begin with the reforms of the ESM and Italy. Last month, we saw ambitious targets to strengthen the euro area and the ESM. This is seen as a profit from the Netherlands. This will lead to stricter rules and deeper institutions to get a stronger currency. But my group is very reluctant to take any step towards risk-sharing in Europe. This is dangerous if other countries fail to comply with the agreements. Here I come to one concrete example: Italy. Italy has turned in a budget that simply does not meet the requirements. From Parliamentary questions we understood that the Dutch Government, through Minister Hoekstra, has apparently already asked the Commission twice for written clarification. But he's not here yet. So I'd like to know when it's coming. Does the Dutch Government believe that the figures in the Italian budget are correct? Is she willing to ask for a second opinion on that? I think it's very important. A second opinion is important for this: Italy just last week issued a decree whereby people from 62 years and 38 years of service can retire. That decree is going to cost 40 billion in seven years. For a country which does not comply with the rules, there is a risk that it will have to apply for emergency aid from the European Central Bank or from the European emergency funds. Would the Netherlands then pay, I ask the Prime Minister, early retirement for an Italian public, while we keep the AOW age at 67? I would like a clear answer to that and I would also like to hear what the government is doing to keep Italy to the rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u68	We hear again Mr Omtzigt's famous stick horse when it comes to Italy. It's too bad he's not talking about France. We see that France, year in, year out, is out of line with those so desired rules. I would be very happy if we agreed to a pension of 62 here; that would be revolutionary. If Mr Omtzigt is so critical of this, why does he agree that his finance minister Hoekstra should say: okay, there should be a transfer union and there should be a euro area budget, which can be used to make countries compete better with each other or to grow closer together? In doing so, money will go from that budget, which will fill the Netherlands, to Italy when it is needed. Then why is Mr Omtzigt for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u69	Two answers. There's something I'd like to tell you about France. France, like Italy, has not complied with budgetary discipline at any time. France should also be called upon to do so. If I compare France's and Italy's budgetary rules this year, I have to say that Italy's really beat France's in a lot of stupidity. I have no choice but to judge that, but that does not mean that I am positive at once and say that France is keeping to everything. On the second point, this remains within the euro budget. That is a fund designed to increase competitiveness. It is not a fund to cope with macroeconomic shocks. The government has clearly been in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u70	We have always said that the CDA supported that it should not be given such a budgetary instrument because then you will have a euro area where the northern countries will pay for southern countries. That's basically what it's all about. The CDA has always supported that. But less than two months ago, I tabled a motion that that really should not happen, that that really is the lower limit. And the CDA voted against it. In any debate, the CDA can then be very critical of Italy. You can find a lot of that. But you're basically empty-handed. It's nice rhetoric, which shows you're very smart and understands a lot about Italy's budget, but that's what they're all about. The problem is not that Italy makes decisions. The problem is that the CDA agrees to a transfer union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u71	The problem is that Italy, and none of the other countries, are currently in no way complying with the rules. I'd like to know from the government what steps she's taking at that point. I do not want to know exactly what is happening in the European Union budget. This remains within the 1% budget, just below what the provinces have to spend. But the big risks, I'm telling you, aren't really there in whether the Netherlands is contributing 100 or 50 million extra to the budget, although these seem to be large amounts. The big risks in Europe are if we do wrong things with the euro, if something happens to the buy-in programme of EUR 2,500 billion in government bonds, or if something happens to the Euro-deposit guarantee scheme, because that is where we are moving slowly. The CDA would like to know where these risk reduction assessments are. Because you can't just agree on a deposit guarantee scheme and guarantee other banks when you don't even know what kind of banks they are. So I ask the Prime Minister: do we get that risk reduction assessment this year? Mr. Chairman. I'll come to Brexit. We were talking about the Collector's Act. Every day seems to be becoming a no deal more inevitable. And let me be clear: a no deal is totally undesirable. But that does mean that we have to prepare ourselves properly. I ask the Prime Minister once again: are Rotterdam and the other ports well prepared? Isn't that where we're gonna get chaos? This morning, of course, we got a quick scan of the port of Rotterdam. We've been asking for quick scans here for weeks, and that quick scan was dated December 7th. Why do we have to wait eight weeks to find out exactly what's going on? There are recommendations about closing down the A1, the A73 and the A12 among others. I didn't remember them all. Can I know what happened to those recommendations? 'Cause it's not there. The Netherlands is at risk of an infarct if companies are not well prepared for customs formalities, and they come with a hard Brexit. Why so late? And have those recommendations been followed? We filed a motion on the driver's licenses. When are we gonna get an answer to that? We filed a motion on a checkpoint, and we got a meaningless letter back. This means that the import and export of cattle is going wrong. Can we please know when it's gonna happen? Mr. Chairman. Then medicine. We received a letter this morning stating that there are 40 very important resources, including for people's lives, and that no solution has yet been found. Can we be informed in confidence within two weeks of what is going to happen for each of these 40 medicines? And that also applies to all devices, because they were not even discussed, while most devices are recognized in England. The tools that come from the US are also recognized by English institutions. Because they are recognized by English institutions, that recognition lapses with a hard Brexit and should not be used anymore. Then the government writes: then hospitals have to store them. Yeah, come on. You didn't think any hospital could store all the supplies in some kind of supply closet, did you? They spoil, they're custom-made for a certain person, or they're incredibly expensive. I can't. So we would like a list of how this is done. That's confidential, because of all sorts of things. Mr. Chairman. When it comes to the rule of law, I would like to have a quick scan of the state of law of the EU, and in particular of transparency, as it does not comply with the rulings of the Court of Justice and the Ombudsman itself. Finally, I would like to know when this new relationship with Turkey will finally begin.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u72	Thank you, Mr. Ommzigt. Mrs. Maeijer has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u73	I would also like to have some clarity from the CDA on a few points. Are you actually in favour of or against the increase in the annual budget or the multiannual budget of the European Union? Are you in favour or against abolishing the rebate mechanism? And do you think that the veto should remain with the multiannual budget or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u74	Well, that's gonna be a quiz. We would like to maintain the multiannual budget in terms of gross domestic product. This means that it should not remain the same in nominal terms but should remain the same in percentage terms, just as we always express the ratio we are spending here as a percentage of GDP. We'd like to keep the discount mechanism. I just note that our rebate mechanism is currently linked to the UK rebate mechanism. Unfortunately, in its present form, it does not exist, but we are not so much concerned with the rebate mechanism as such. We are concerned with the outcome that is ultimately under the line. Sorry, what was the third question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u75	Or you think that we should veto the decision-making process on the multiannual budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u76	I believe that the Treaties have made that clear. That veto has each of the 27 or 28 Member States; we still do not know whether the United Kingdom will be involved in the negotiations. Yeah, that sounds like a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u77	The latter is indeed partly established in the treaties. What is also contained in the Treaties is that you can deviate from it unanimously.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u78	You can deviate if you unanimously decide to deviate from it. So all 28 countries must first say that they are different from them. They've done that kind of thing, but even if we wanted to, I don't see 28 countries saying yes to that. So that is a very hypothetical question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u79	I understand those answers in the sense that you are in principle opposed to the increase in the budget. I put this question to you because, of course, I am only allowed to ask Mrs De Lange information questions. In Brussels, you agree to a draft report for the 2019 budget, which is going up again. You are abstaining from voting on the abolition of reductions and the maintenance of the correction mechanisms, and you are also abstaining from calling for a text to be deleted in order to prevent the unanimity requirement from establishing the multiannual budget. If you express these views here, it would be nice if you would also vote in Brussels or Strasbourg along that line.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u80	Two answers to this. Answer one: 2019 and 2020 simply remain within the seven-year budget that we set in 2013. It is normal within that seven-year period that it is slightly higher at the end than at the beginning. Secondly, I look forward very much to taking the time to review at the PVV how each Provincial State has voted on all the motions submitted to Provincial States. Because I want a lot, but if I had to follow all of the EP's amendments, I really wouldn't get to my wallet. So I really suggest that my colleague Esther de Lange, who has just heard the questions and I saw Mrs Maeijer write with them, should make a comment on this in a moment, otherwise I will answer for her. I'm sure she can do that ten times better.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u81	Mr Omtzigt just spoke of a test on the rule of law. In particular, he talked about greater transparency. I think we're all in this room for that. My question to Mr Omtzigt would be: where, in his view, is this profit for transparency the most to be achieved? Is that with the European Parliament, the European Commission or the European Council?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u82	On two points: at the European Council and at the trilogues between these three institutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u83	I agree that these trilogues can be more transparent, but I am also thinking in particular of the European Council. I therefore believe that the test is not only a test on Europe, but also, above all, a test on our own Heads of Government, who are still too often holding back this transparency.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u84	That's right. We agreed an internal guideline when Mr Timmermans was still a minister. I can assure you that the Chamber was not enthusiastic about that at the time. They have also included in that internal guideline that they can only deviate from it once again by unanimity and that they cannot disclose the documents. So now they're hiding behind each other saying that they can't, while the judge and the European Ombudsman are saying that they can't. The third point on which there is still some gain in the rule of law is the European Court of Auditors and the supervision of banks. That could be seen from one of those quick scans. I would like to look forward to it and I hope that the government will be able to promise it as well. As I said just now in response to an interruption by Mrs Leijten, the greatest financial risk is not in a number of relatively small items in the budget. That is, of course, what is happening at the banking union. And that's where control can't take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u85	I was all the way up when I heard the CDA say that the CDA is in favour of a little more attention to the state of law and a state of law test. I know that Sophie in 't Veld van D66 has proposed a peer review in the European Parliament, so that every country occasionally passes the measuring bar. I also happened to mention this yesterday with Minister Grapperhaus of the CDA House in the general consultation on the JHA Council. He said that the Netherlands didn't really need that anymore. Then how do you stand in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u86	I myself sit on the Council of Europe, where such a peer review of all the members of the Council of Europe has been taking place for two years. Soon the Netherlands will be there too. I think it is very healthy for this to happen at the Council of Europe. I do not know the European proposal, so I do not know how sensible it is to do this except for the Article 7 procedure. But I was just suggesting a reverse state of law test. Where the Union is constantly paying attention to what the Member States are doing, and rightly so, because if something really goes wrong, action must be taken from within the Union and it would also be useful for the countries to review the state of the Union's rule of law. You have seen the report from us and from a number of other parliaments. At the moment, the documents and sometimes even the voting behaviour of our government are secret. We don't know what she did. How can we vote for a government in the elections if we do not know whether that government voted for or against a particular measure? It is part of the essence of democracy that all of my votes here are public. Mrs Maeijer is right to ask why you are voting for or against. The only exception is as President of the Chamber, Mr. President. We'll vote on you in secret. But we always vote on laws in public.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u87	As far as transparency is concerned, I can only agree with you. I will also say something about this in my contribution. There is absolutely no need for support for this. I think it is a good thing that we not only have an Article 7 procedure to put countries along the measuring bar when they are already in real heavy weather, but also to engage in structural discussions with each other. Indeed, we are at a stage where we are delivering suspects and working together in the area of police and justice in such a way that we really need to have confidence in each other. I therefore hope that the CDA will support such a peer-to-peer review. We can always see how that should take place, but I can see a somewhat positive attitude in Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u88	I'll surprise you. In the Council of Europe, I do these things. I just let myself be pinned down for doing the review of Poland. So I think I'm gonna be a little busy for the next few weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u89	We know Mr Omtzigt as an experienced parliamentarians, for example in the Council of Europe. He just made a lot of noise about budgetary discipline, especially at the beginning, the euro pact. My question is really: how is it that, at European level, we are never able, in particular, to allow the large countries of France, Germany and Italy, in 2003, to comply with the agreements we have made with each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u90	The problem is even a little bigger than Mr Azarkan's proposal. If only France didn't follow the rules only in 2003. It is easier to draw up a list of years in which France has complied with the rules than a list of years in which it has not complied with the rules. That list of when they did, is shorter. Why is that? In my view, the European Commission has had too much political determination as to whether or not a country complies with the budgetary rules. We now notice this in Italy. That is why I asked those questions about Italy. I would also like to ask the same questions about France, if Mrs Leijten insists on it. Something similar is happening there. That's why you need to put it a little more away. This could, for example, be done at the ESM and this is also proposed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u91	I welcome the addition of the other cases where countries have not complied with the agreements. I am also surprised, because I see a kind of naivety with Mr Omtzigt, because he actually says that it is a political balance. Mr Omtzigt often has a somewhat technical approach: these are the rules of the game and this should be done. The experience is that politicians decide among themselves that they do not punish each other, in this case countries. So what's the value of the contribution in the first part if the countries then agree with each other: if I don't punish you, you don't punish me and then we just keep it that way?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u92	This has different mechanisms. The euro budget mechanism is up to the European Commission. My request to the government is therefore to insist with a number of like-minded Member States on a test of whether Italy's books are correct at the moment. I say that very consciously, because we have seen that the books were wrong in Greece for years, as well as in Italy at the entrance to the euro. With derivatives from Goldman Sachs a very interesting move has been pulled to get within that 3%. This year even the independent Italian institutions say that the figures are wrong. That is why I ask the question: do you want to focus with a number of countries on the Commission in order to do so? That is not the case with the Dutch Government. In the state of law, there is another mechanism. That's Article 7. That was once designed to make it possible that, when one country is completely out of control, everyone still thought of Greece with the colonel regime, all the other countries could make a decision together. Mr Azarkan has a point about this procedure, namely that all countries must agree less than one. Sometimes a country says to a friendly country: you vote against me, I vote against you. That is indeed a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u93	Finally. Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u94	In that light, and when it comes to acceptance, transparency and, perhaps, legitimacy, an important point for citizens in Europe, I am surprised that for 22 years the European Commission's General Court of Auditors has rejected its own budget. So he has said 22 years: we do not approve. Twenty-two years it's been rejected. The last time it was about 137 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u95	Last time, things got better. Well, you'll have to add that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u96	You're interrupting me now. The last two times there were limited shortcomings, I quote correctly, but the 22 times before that the budget has simply been rejected, it simply has not been properly spent. I wonder, then, we should also start with ourselves as politicians and as the Netherlands, how to get that support if you do not set an example yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u97	The Netherlands has itself issued its own Member State declaration, which explains well the funds spent in the Netherlands. When the European Court of Auditors sees too many shortcomings in the annual report, the Netherlands always votes against discharge. Once again, I would like to point out in this Chamber that the great financial risk is not so much within the European budget as it really is within the European monetary policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u98	A brief question, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u99	Today we are talking about the State of the European Union. One thing that's day in, thought out of news is the Brexit. Now yesterday a very prominent European leader wondered where that special place in hell is for those who promoted and made up the Brexit. How does the CDA feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u100	I think it is unwise, but I have just indicated this to Mr Van Baalen in the interruption. I do not agree with the British, but you have to deal with each other properly and with respect, even if you disagree politically. I would never choose words like that. So I don't think that's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u101	This question has indeed just been changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u102	Was Mr Omtzigt finished with his speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u103	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u104	I have missed one point. I myself am still a little confused by an opinion document by the Foreign Minister, in which he advocates an apolitical European Commission. Today, I was surprised by an opinion piece by Esther de Lange of the CDA in the European Parliament, which advocates a European Commission that can also operate politically. I am curious to hear the opinion of the CDA's Lower House Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u105	Mr. Ommzigt, tell me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u106	If I wanted to write an opinion piece? Then I'm a whole lot closer to Esther de Lange's opinion piece. It is important that certain matters can be dealt with and that intervention will, within certain terms, be political. The rejection of the merger between Alstom and Siemens yesterday will be seen by people as a political decision. In such cases, the Commission should be able to go ahead. I think it would have been wise if they'd allowed that merger. In those cases, they should be political. In matters they have nothing to say about, they should not be political, so they should not be political in every file. But yes, that kind of decision-making will have to be political. It is, of course, a nice figure of style that you ask me to act as referee if you can question Mrs De Lange about her piece and then Minister Blok. I'd say ask them. They are mature enough to answer questions about their own submitted documents.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u107	I ask the question to Mr Omtzigt for a reason too, because of course it is something. If you read the State of the Union from a cabinet that is pro-European and has to read an opinion document in a foreign newspaper from a minister who advocates an apolitical European Commission, then it is important to know what the political groups in this Chamber are like. I was very pleased with the first part of Mr Omtzigt's reply. I support Mr Omtzigt and Mrs De Lange in their call for a European Commission which can act politically forcefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u108	Yes, in the areas where she is competent. You'll have to add those words.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u109	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u110	In the European foreign and defence field, I am afraid that we do not yet have 100% agreement, I say to Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u111	Thank you, Mr. Ommzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u112	Am I done?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u113	Yes, you were ready. I now give the floor to Mrs De Lange, Member of the European Parliament for the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u114	Thank you, Madam President, for this annual debate with Members of Parliament and MEPs. Few countries know this approach, I see in the European Parliament. Colleagues are also quite jealous that we have this debate once a year, especially in this election year, with the European elections in May. These elections are being dismissed by some as irrelevant ones. Who was that again? However, I think there is a great deal at stake in May. In any case, the Brexit shows what can happen if you get out of the way of the European debate and allow easy one-liners or even lies to set the tone. I therefore welcome this debate and also the report on the state of the Union, which, in my opinion, identifies the right priorities: security, migration, a fair economy and an effective climate policy. In these areas important steps have been taken in recent years, such as the reform of the ETS, which has increased the price of CO emissions from, when we started the legislative amendment, over €5 per tonne to now almost €25 per tonne. Bas Eickhout, I know that every morning after you've gotten up, you're looking at the current course, but it's gone down quite a few times. This shows the impact of European legislation. The major impact of this legislation will, of course, only come in the coming years, when more rights will be withdrawn, which will further increase the price. We may also mention things that go well. However, in the areas mentioned in the report, such as migration and so on, further steps are needed in the future. I'm just gonna grab some migration out of it. The report calls for an integrated approach. The European Parliament has done homework in many areas and is ready to negotiate with the Council. I note that the integrated approach proposed by the Netherlands is still hopelessly established, particularly on the part of the Council of Ministers. I am personally very pleased that the VVD leader in the European elections has a good knowledge of migration. I very much hope that he will be able to make his mark on the Liberal Group in the European Parliament, which has so far been heading left on migration issues. In any case, I am very happy to work with him to achieve the objectives set out in this document on the State of the Union, which are very much in line with our commitment as CDA and EPP. Mr. Chairman. This document on the State of the Union is a piece on which you can build, with the general tone: in an uncertain world we want to protect what is fragile and of value; our security, our environment and our social market economy. What a difference indeed with the document submitted by the Foreign Minister in The Financial Times this week. A purely official European Commission, he says he wants. And that while Europe needs to think much more strategically and politically, not that purely inwardly, while the great competition comes from outside Europe, precisely in order to achieve those objectives in that document on the State of Union. For example, should we take over unhindered Chinese state-owned companies, European companies and infrastructure, which are of great importance for our future agenda and for our jobs? An official does look up to the European borders and perhaps let it happen, but if you look up your legal texts, you will see what is happening in the world and that we do need to screen foreign investments in critical infrastructure, and that we may need to reformulate our approach to competition for a number of nuclear industries. Or take the climate, just like today when thousands of students are on the Malieveld. I am proud that the European Commission, at the time when the Americans were not implementing or implementing Kyoto, went to the farmer to ensure that sufficient countries were involved to ratify the text. I am also proud that it is the European Commissioner for Climate Action and Energy who, now that the Americans are retiring from Paris, is working with Asia to achieve the goal of global CO emissions. This is not an administrative approach, it is a strategic and political approach. Let us be clear: that is also in our Dutch interest. If I have to choose, I would rather have a strong European approach with a decent CO price than spend €1,700 per saved tonne of CO through a national Teslatax.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u115	Will you finish up, Mrs. De Lange?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u116	Yeah, I'm gonna do that, and then I'm gonna have to pick what I'm gonna say. I had to answer Mrs Maeijer's question, and I am actually doing the same to Mrs Leijten. I can reassure Mrs Maeijer. As a CDA, we, as one of the few in the European Parliament, have not agreed to a multiannual budget of 1.3% of gross national product. It would not surprise me, Mrs Maeijer, if large parts of your own group had done so. Just as I can say to Mrs Leijten that the person who asks me day in, day out, where the European deposit guarantee scheme continues to be, is a legal text that I am not going to present for as long as, as Mr Omtzigt said, too little has been done about risk reduction - her colleague Dimitrios Papadimoulis from Greece. So let's face it, we have a specific Dutch interest. We have the honor of keeping up that we're economical accountants. So we all have work to do in our individual groups and let us work together instead of playing that game of ping-pong here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u117	I have another enlightening question about this Dutch interest. If you are in the European Parliament, I can imagine that it is difficult to determine: am I in Dutch interest or am I in my party interest, for example? These interests may well go against each other. When I look at the CDA, it does not write its own election programme, but it is based on the programme of its European party. What exactly does Mrs De Lange stand for when she is in the European Parliament? Does it then represent the European Christian Democratic Party as a People's Party or is it a People's Party representative for the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u118	And that's what you call an enlightening question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u119	Certainly, certainly, because Mrs De Lange spoke about the Dutch interest. Well, then I'm curious to see what that's like.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u120	I'll give you an enlightening answer. I would advise Mrs Leijten to read the election manifesto of the EPP that is to come and the CDA's electoral programme that is already in place, because there is a great deal in that which is just one-on-one. I am elected on the basis of the CDA election programme, as your colleagues, I presume, are chosen on the basis of the SP election programme. I will give an example of where we have deviated from our European group, because that is what we considered to be in the Dutch interest. This concerns CO2 emissions from cars. A number of political groups, particularly strong German delegations, wanted to be as ambitious as possible in the area of future standards. We knew: at the moment when we in the Netherlands do not go for that 70% reduction as a European goal, if we do not achieve that in traffic, we will get jobs for our industry, and we will also have jobs for our agricultural objectives that we cannot meet. We must therefore also be ambitious in the field of transport. We then deviated. The final result that it has produced is very close to our point of view. You shouldn't do that too often, but sometimes you have to choose to go home. I think that happens in 10% of cases, Madam President, if that makes sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u121	Thank you, Mrs De Lange. I now give the floor to Mr Jetten on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u122	Mr. Chairman. Brexit, Trump, Putin, China, the climate disaster or the power of the techs. I keep saying it: only through intimate European cooperation can we meet these great challenges today. My party is therefore pleased that this cabinet has opted for a pro-European course. That was, among other things, different, but we were often not in it. Under this cabinet, the Netherlands sees the European Union for the first time as a community of values, in which we, as European Member States, jointly choose democracy, the rule of law and human rights. I welcome the good intentions put forward by the government for Europe in the State of the Union. My compliments on that text. But in practice, there's still room for a tooth. For example, I cannot reconcile the Prime Minister's statement at Buitenhof that the elections to the European Parliament are not so relevant, with his pro-European speech in Strasbourg. I hope that this is a prime minister of a pro-European cabinet and not a prime minister of VVD election slogans. In addition to the trivialisation of European democracy, our Prime Minister too often remains a no-shaker in Brussels. A euro area budget? No. Removing the right of veto on tax matters? No, not that either. Taking up enlargement talks with Macedonia and Albania? You're guessing: no again. I can go on like this for a while. I want to prevent the Netherlands from being out of the game on important dossiers and wasting political capital in that way. In the meantime France and Germany find each other better and too often the Netherlands is not at the table. If we are to sit at that table and talk about the future of Europe, we must also set positive objectives and not just shout loudly what we do not want. Does that mean that we have to agree to anything without a hitch? Of course not, but Europe is too important to leave to Macron and Merkel alone. I call on the Cabinet not to stand on the sidelines. At the same time, I also share the call of a number of colleagues here that we should remain realistic, for example on the European budget. The cabinet wants to increase the EU's commitment to major issues, such as defence, climate and security, but at the same time wants to reduce spending, while the Brexit will also reduce money. Our peace, security and prosperity have a price. My appeal to this cabinet is therefore: dare to invest in Europe. Mr. Chairman. I have taken the liberty of making some suggestions for the Prime Minister for a more positive attitude. The first suggestion. The cabinet recognises that the EU will have to contribute more to our own security in the future. I am in favour of a military force of Europeans, because Europe must be able to protect its own territory in this changing world. Other Member States have already said that if you want to cooperate fully in the field of defence at European level, you cannot do so without a European military headquarters that can take on a coordinating role between Member States. I can't imagine the Prime Minister not embracing that call. A second suggestion. As I said in the debate with Mr Omtzigt, I was not very enthusiastic about Minister Blok's opinion. I see Mr Asscher at the interrupting microphone. I think he wants to ask me a question on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u123	Yes, I do have a question on that point, on the European security position. A colleague of Mr Jetten, Mr Sjoerdsma, rightly said that Europe should do everything in its power to preserve the INF Treaty against nuclear weapons, but now we have seen that Blok and Rutte immediately backed Trump, who withdrew from that treaty. Do you agree with the Labour Party that this is not really a good thing, that it is better to formulate a European response aimed at ensuring that countries remain members of that treaty?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u124	In my opinion, it would indeed be very sensible if we, as Europe, now were to step up together in the situation surrounding the INF Convention. I understand the withdrawal of the Americans for violations on the side of the Russians, but as we enter trenches and start a new arms race together, we as a European continent will be in between. Then we'll be between Washington and Moscow. It is therefore in our interest to call on these countries, perhaps also with the Chinese, to continue to talk about how we are going to reduce the number of nuclear weapons worldwide.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u125	Well, that's what we're agreed on. But in that light, the immediate statement of support from Blok and Rutte Rütte is a bit of a mucus policy towards Trump Rütte, when you see what we in Europe really need to achieve.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u126	The Netherlands can play several roles in this. We are with the Americans and many other countries in NATO. I think it is wise for us, as NATO, to step up together in the debate on the INF Treaty, but we must realise that we, too, as the European Union, with unpredictable leaders in America, Russia and other countries, must step up together and take a joint position. In the debate on nuclear weapons, it is in the European interest that we try to get these countries back on the table, so that we may perhaps be able to conclude a new treaty towards a nuclear-free world.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u127	One last question. I can see you're having second thoughts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u128	I actually asked for a response to the position of Rutte and Blok. He didn't come.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u129	Again, I think it's and-and. The cabinet must work together with the Americans in NATO, but it must, above all, step up at European level in order to ensure that we, as Europe, are in a stand-alone position. I joined Minister Blok's opinion paper in The Financial Times a few days ago. It says that the European Commission must become less political. At the same time, this document also calls for more authority for the Commission on important issues such as migration and climate. These are subjects that are extremely political. We have just heard some good examples from the CDA. In my head, I can't get those two things together. On the one hand, addressing the major challenges of today and, on the other hand, a less political European Commission. I'd like to hear from the Minister how that rhymes with each other. I think the cabinet should stop longing for the past. At this time of cross-border issues, we do not need a loose international organisation, but a truly democratic European Union. Let us now take the lead in Europe in building up this system instead of dismantling it, and not looking back to backrooms where the President of the Commission is elected. Not back to a European Commission that cannot give political direction, but rather to a European Commission and a European Parliament that are being strengthened, so that they can act effectively when many refugees approach our external borders, when China threatens our economy, or when the US and Russia play with our security.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u130	We have also been surprised at that piece of opinion in The Financial Times. In short, Blok advocates a more technocratic Europe. Your colleague called that a lame story. Can we now conclude that Blok was not speaking on behalf of the cabinet, or at least not on behalf of the coalition?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u131	At least I don't recognize myself in that piece of opinion. That is why I am very curious about the Minister's response in a moment's time. We have also asked written questions. There was an answer to that this morning. I am missing one very important answer, namely on the question we are asking about the spitzen candidates. Soon I will hear the Minister's answer as to whether he wishes to say something more orally than in the written reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u132	What I am looking for is whether the twilight talk is indeed here in the Lower House countries. What do you have in mind? From now on, let Mrs Kaag write the opinion articles? Let block take it back here? Where's this gonna end? Asking questions is one thing, but the opinion was: a weak story. Now I am very curious whether that is a lame story on behalf of Rob Jetten and D66, whether it is not, and what the consequence is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u133	In fact, I thought it was a lame piece of opinion, but I would like to hear the Minister's further explanation before we draw any conclusions. Then I come to my third suggestion. I am very concerned about the populist and autocratic tendencies in a number of European Member States. I am thinking of the disappearance of an opposition newspaper in Hungary and the dismissal of judges in Poland. The European Union and this cabinet must stand up for our values. When it comes to Poland, the first steps have been taken, but there is far too little going on in Hungary. In September, the European Parliament adopted a report to launch the Article 7 procedure against Hungary because of the systematic undermining of the rule of law and now it is up to the Council of Ministers, but it is now February and nothing has happened in the Council. I know that an attempt has been made with other Member States to bring the hearings up to date, but I do not think it has been successful. I hope that Minister Blok will take the lead as soon as possible in setting up this hearing with like-minded Member States himself, in order to address Prime Minister Orbán and not to wait for the Romanian Presidency to do so. In addition to the Council, the European Commission has also lost a lot of weight here. Juncker and Weber continue to hold Orbán's hand over their heads and Frans Timmermans sits there and looks at it. He leaves the heavy work to the European Parliament. I'll ask the Prime Minister how he sees this. Is he satisfied with the action of the Dutch Commissioner on the rule of law in countries such as Hungary and Malta? And is it not time for a structural solution, such as an annual fundamental rights problem, as proposed in the European Parliament by my party colleague Sophie in 't Veld? Mr. Chairman. These are just three suggestions. I hope that the Prime Minister will be able to do something with this and that, in addition to the fine words from that state of the Union, we will also show that we are not obstructing Europe, but building together on a future-proof continent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u134	Thank you, Mr. Jetten. I now give the floor to Mrs In 't Veld, Member of the European Parliament for D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u135	Madam President. As Members of the European Parliament, it has already been pointed out by my fellow Members, we consider your participation in your debate on the State of the Union to be valuable, since the European Parliament is a co-legislator and representative of over 500 million Europeans. The European elections are therefore increasingly relevant. Yes, dear Prime Minister Rutte, it's already been reported by several people here. There's going to be a generation of adults at the moment demonstrating at the Malieveld, who feels more European than her parents and who is going to vote for the first time. For decades, the Netherlands has been part of the ever closer union. Our intimate intertwining with Europe has a long history. But we have to make new political choices. What European future do we offer to these new generations: a Europe that takes care of its people, protects and contributes to a clean planet, or a Europe that continues to cling blindly to the old, purely technocratic cooperation between governments, as Minister Blok recently advocated in The Financial Times, the article has already been extensively commented here, or a Europe that is addicted to the past, to a high level of nationalism and nostalgia? Or are we finally waking up? It is time for a realistic view of the world. D66 believes it is time for Europe to mature politically to respond to the political challenges of today. Europe must not be slower but faster, because the world is changing rapidly. Trump rewrites the geopolitical order and demolishes the foundations of our security. The Chinese dragon slowly turns into a political superpower in its full length. Putin is rolling his muscles again, and Europe is completely dependent on American internet giants who determine our view of the world. "No problem," says Prime Minister Rutte, "power lies with national governments, isn't it?" Power? Let's see. No European response to the termination of the INF Nuclear Weapons Convention. No response to the nuclear dispute last year between Trump and Kim Jong-un. No European position on Venezuela. And still not a decent European asylum policy, because 28 national governments cannot agree. That's not power, that's powerlessness. In the world of Trump and Xi, the world of Google and Huawei, national sovereignty is daydreaming. Dangerous, strange daydreaming, leading to disastrous choices. Because Brexit didn't fall out of the sky. Brexit is also a choice. The result of handouts to nationalists who will be satisfied and come back for more at all times. And the strategy of some middle parties to move to the right as a shore against populism has only made those extremes bigger, sometimes up to 25%. The nexitsprookje of Forum voor Democracy and PVV is nice for the Efteling, but D66 wants to respond to the vast majority of Dutch people: the silent, modest, moderate majority of Dutch people who look at the EU with a healthy Dutch, critical look, but who do know that a strong Europe is crucial for our security, freedom and prosperity. Europe must develop into a strong political union, capable of defending the interests and values of Europeans vis-à-vis America or China, which is a geopolitical factor. That is a union that can guarantee its own security and defence in this turbulent world and, yes, also with a European military force. A Union that guides migration and raises its own European inter-terrorism that seizes opportunities for Europeans in the digital age. That is a Europe that is world leader in climate policy. We have a choice. Do we want to be spectators on the world stage or contestant? Do we choose fragmentation or one powerful voice? Do we choose fear or ambition? For D66 it is clear: we choose the future. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u136	Thank you, Mrs. In 't Veld. I now give the floor to Mrs Buitenweg, on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u137	Thank you, Madam President. Maybe we should change the name of the chamber that we're discussing today. Because it is not about the state of the European Union. No other country or perspective appears in the document: it is about the state of the Netherlands in the European Union. Mr. Chairman. This is shown not only on paper, but also in the actions of the Prime Minister. It is a Prime Minister who is more active on the European stage than he was years ago, who sees the importance of European cooperation to influence the global stage to tackle climate change and to better regulate migration. I have already announced that I would give a compliment, because my group believes that this is a gain.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u138	I understand from Prime Minister Rutte whether you wish to repeat the latter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u139	But the Prime Minister is still playing his old game, in which he belittles and brings down the European Parliament, unlike Macron and Merkel, government leaders of a larger size. They are busy with the European elections and their ambitions for Europe. Partly because of that, their newspapers are full of them. It is inconceivable that Merkel would say that the elections of the European Parliament are not so relevant, because Merkel knows that it is not appropriate for a member of the executive to devalue the value of elected representatives. My question to the Prime Minister is whether he sees a role for himself in a campaign to promote a high turnout in the European elections. Mr. Chairman. Democracy is a small step towards the rule of law: the worrying situation in Hungary. In September, the Sargentini report reached the required two-thirds majority in the European Parliament. That was an enormous achievement and an institutional unique. The ball was then with the European ministers, and there it is still. According to the Treaty, the Council must act within a reasonable period of time. But what does the Prime Minister think is that? The situation in Hungary is deteriorating every day. Critical organisations have to pay more taxes, corrupt friends avoid jail time, the separation of powers and the freedom of the media stand in the dirt and there is a law that violates social rights. Now is the time to act. In Davos, I saw a prime minister who went full on the organ. The country that had aroused its wrath was not Hungary, but Italy. And it wasn't about the rule of law, it was about money. That is not unimportant either, but I would like the Prime Minister to be prepared to cause such a diplomatic riot about one of the biggest problems we face today in the European Union: the undermining of European values. Hungary has taken a look at its cards and we know from leaked documents what Orbán's strategy is: pretend to cooperate with this whole Article 7 procedure, override the European Commission and the Council with paper and try to postpone all discussions until after the European elections, because he is committed to doing so. We're not gonna let him get away with all that bullying about legal and technical issues, are we? This is the moment when Prime Minister Rutte must show his European leadership, in order to put his fist on the table. A deal must be a deal, merchant Blok wrote this week in The Financial Times. But that was also about Italy and the euro. Where are similar harsh words when the rule of law is at stake? Mr. Chairman. In the State of the European Union, the government rightly pays a great deal of attention to digitisation, to innovations by artificial intelligence. We are particularly concerned about China's competition, because they use the new technologies to systematically monitor and reduce people, to influence and even make their actions, and even their thinking, unfree. The Chinese government has the power to influence the decisions of Chinese companies regarding what they do with the dates on which they can lay hands on. That means that my group is opposed to outsource the roll-out of 5G in the Netherlands to these companies. It is a difficult decision, because we have to acknowledge that the Chinese sometimes have the best products. This means that we must be more competitive as the European Union, through investment and through a vision of technological developments in, for example, the ownership of data. The cabinet is working on a China strategy, by the way, for a long time. It is high time we worked on a European strategy in China, including industrial policy and competition, as other colleagues have said. Does the Prime Minister want to make a big deal out of that? Finally, our Foreign Minister wants the European Commission to take major steps in the areas of migration, climate and foreign policy, but in his view the Commission must be less political than the current Commission. What a raging bullshit, that link. Is it really up to the European Commission that there is no common European asylum policy and that there is no agreement on the resettlement of refugees from third countries? It is the political representatives who do not deliver, the ministers of the Member States. This affects the legitimacy of the EU. What does Minister Blok say about that? In order to increase confidence in the EU, he wants transparency: the proactive publication of documents. Transparency is good, my group is all for that, but political leadership is especially needed. That shows itself in acting towards an audience. That is precisely what is often lacking in Europe. In this respect, I would like to make an additional proposal for transparency. The Council is a co-legislator, together with the European Parliament. I want the Council's doors to be thrown open. Put up some stands. Make sure that the public is present when the Council votes on and talks about directives, because at those moments the Council is legislator and not a diplomatic conversation. It is good if they feel that particular responsibility and that the public sees and experiences that it is not only about the importance of their own country, but that there is also a whole. Will the Prime Minister consider this proposal? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u140	Thank you, Mrs Buitenweg. I now give the floor to Mr Eickhout, Member of the European Parliament for the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u141	Thank you, Madam President. I actually wanted to start with a very positive story about the new State of the Union of the Cabinet. But then came the article by Mr Blok in The Financial Times. Then you screwed up a little bit, didn't you? Since I have to go into that now, I have had to delete the positive part. That's too bad. In particular, I would like to address the institutional coup d'état of the European Parliament in the run-up to the Spitzen candidate countries. Since I'm a spitzen candidate myself, I have to say something about that. I think the treaty is very clear. Parliament agrees with the President of the Commission. Yes, it is proposed by the Council, but Parliament finally agrees. Parliament is now saying that we want to know in advance who it is going to be, who will build a majority in the European Parliament and with what kind of programme. That clarity is needed in advance so that the voter knows what he's going to choose, so he knows that if you vote CDA, you get Manfred Weber. I think that the CDA's popularity will go further and further. That's what we want. That is not a coup d'état, that is democracy, that is transparency. That is better than the back room policy that the Member States want most. That was my time for the positive of the state of the Union. When we look at the Union, I think it is important that European cooperation is crucial. We need to strengthen it. That is also what I read in the State of the Union. But when I read it that way, I fear a little bit that the Minister and the Prime Minister see Europe as a little vase, a little vase that you must hold and cherish, while Europe is everything but a little vase. That is an extremely conservative idea. Europe is a house, a house that needs to be converted, that needs to be energy efficient, that needs to be renewed and that needs to be addressed. That is Europe, not a little vase that you have to press close to you and can only destroy. We can follow the issues raised by the cabinet: migration, security, the economy, the climate. These are very clear themes. Especially on climate, you will find GroenLinks by your side. I think sometimes you need to convince your own party in this Chamber a little more often, but maybe the Malieveld helped today. Where the Union really needs to change is in the social field. And I'm sorry, the state of the Union is incredibly thin. Address bottlenecks in cross-border employment, the European Social Fund, common goals and standards? That is not at the heart of the problem of a lack of a social European Union. The big flaw, the big problem is that multinationals are still barely paying taxes, that Member States, the Netherlands first, are still racing to the bottom on profit tax rates. They go back and forth every year. Google, Amazon and Facebook do not have to pay taxes. The proposal it now leads to is that companies like Apple and Amazon will no longer pay taxes. But that's all about advertising revenue. Over and over again, Europe fails to ensure that multinationals pay a fair level of taxation. And this cabinet could do something about that if it advocated that Europe should have more say in the tax field. This cabinet does not like treaty changes, but there is even an article for it. Article 116 says that if there is major market distortion, you could go from unanimity to multiple votes. It is precisely the failure of multinationals to pay taxes that is an incredible distortion of that internal market. The cabinet should use that to ensure that companies finally pay fair taxes. In addition, in the social dimension, the major problem is that the budgetary rules need to be applied more technocratically. A European Commission sitting there as an official and looking at a spreadsheet technocratically; is that really the way this cabinet thinks that the European economy is going to be helped? Mr President, I will conclude. At GroenLinks we are pleased that this cabinet is finally holding less rearguard battles over Europe. But the fundamental debate on a social Europe really needs to be continued. If we do not do so, Europe's support will only become more erode. Then you can do less and less and the vase really breaks down.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u142	Thank you, Mr. Eickhout. I now give the floor to Mrs Leijten on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u143	Mr President, after D66 and GroenLinks now a sober sound about European cooperation. The cooperation of 28 countries within the European Union is under pressure. One is going to leave cooperation, although it does not really seem possible to do so without major risks to Irish peace and without major quarrels. For the people who made up the departure, the President of the European Council of Heads of Government, Donald Tusk, hopes that there will be a special place in hell. Does the Prime Minister agree with him? Does the Prime Minister think that, in addition to these Brexites, there should also be a place in hell for those who are irresponsible and who have deformed our original, precious European cooperation for peace and security and for economic and social progress into a kind of fundamentalist market thinking with a one-size fits-all superstate, in which democracy and social progress are being undermined? Instead of making an analysis of why the British eventually chose to leave, they are consistently dismissed as populists and as a population that has fallen into the hands of folkmen. As far as I'm concerned, that's a weakness offer. Apparently, the story of staying in the European Union was not appealing. Apparently the distrust in the European institutions and European cooperation was too great. And you'll see that again. The discontent with Brussels intervention is great. This is also because it is not transparent which country votes for which proposals. Documents remain secret for far too long. And an initiative of this department meets very much kinder words. There has to be a lot of transparency, but nothing changes. The Brussels machine is a lobby playground for large companies, multinationals with their interests often go against the interests of humans, the environment and animals. And the Dutch permanent representation as a forward post of the Dutch government is also lobbying happily, for Shell and for the arms industry. Yesterday, this came to light painfully again. I would like a response from the Prime Minister to this report, which makes it clear that EU governments are a lobbying tool for large companies. Mr. Chairman. Collaboration is something other than building a political project, where more and more control is being played over the countries that work together. The great engine behind the alienation is also seen by the Scientific Council for Government Policy as the single market. A market for goods is a good thing to say, but it must also apply directly to services, workers and capital, hinders national and local policies. As if the European market is one home care market, on which you have to tender and which means that the short term and low prices count harder than the interest of people who need care. And as if the Russian disinformation attack in the Baltic States should immediately produce a programme for 28 or 27 Member States. If local drivers decide that the next Nutella store in their city might not be a good idea, because it competes away the baker, the butcher and the small entrepreneur, they can do so now. But no, if it is up to the European Commission, they will have to ask permission to do so first. Amsterdam rang the bell about this so-called Notification Directive, but the Netherlands wants to make it possible behind the scenes: as little local control as possible and maximum control over your inner city from the European Commission. Mr. Chairman. As far as we are concerned, we need to look soberly at European cooperation and also look at a cooperation in which you see the future, in which countries can work together on what is good for them, not a majority in the countries. We now see that important elements can also be blocked, for example when it comes to refugee policy, because a number of countries do not want to participate. Why not go to a flexible European Union, where you can say that we are participating in some parts, but not in others? Why doesn't the government want to make some sort of opt-out possible, not only in the case of new treaties, but also in the case of existing policies? Then we can say ourselves: we are about the design of our public transport and we are about how our housing corporations deal with the admission of their homes. And indeed, then there will also be more freedom for other countries to do so. This requires that the European Commission is not a political committee. I agree with this Minister of Foreign Affairs. So I agree with what I read from him in the newspaper and unlike GroenLinks and D66 I don't get that anxious. It would be very good if the European Commission were to be deprived of its right of initiative, but that step would not be taken by the Foreign Minister. I ask him to do so today, because if you do not want a political European Commission and if you want to have the direction in the countries that work together, then it must be possible that you do not cooperate on everything, and it should not be the case that the European Commission pours out new policies on all the Member States in European cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u144	Thank you very much, Mrs Leijten. I now give the floor to Mr De Jong, Member of the European Parliament for the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u145	Thank you, Madam President. At the beginning of the Union's state, the forthcoming European elections are rightly referred to, but after that there is no real discussion of the European Parliament in any way, whereas this document is the only government note to be discussed in the presence of Dutch MEPs. It is in line with the Prime Minister's remark that the European elections are actually a little less important than, for example, the Provincial State elections. Maybe that was a slip, but I actually think it's deeper. The government has nothing to do with the European Parliament, even though the Prime Minister will show up in Strasbourg. That's not much different with the population. As hard as the Dutch MEPs work on numerous legislative proposals and motions, the average Dutchman knows the EP mostly from receipts and moving circuses. The first can be dealt with by MEPs themselves. After endless strides, progress has finally been made: in the future, MEPs will have to account for their expenditure on the basis, for example, of the general reimbursement of expenses. They are also obliged, at least morally, to meet only registered lobbyists. That's profit. But the question of the moving circus lies with the Heads of Government. I have often asked, even in the case of the State of the Union, whether it is not a sign of a huge lack of courage that no government leader dares to say to the rather europhile French President Macron: let us put an end to those meetings in Strasbourg quickly. A few weeks ago, together with D66 and the German FDP, I proposed good company for the Prime Minister and the Government and tabled a motion to establish future training for European diplomats in Strasbourg. The building lends itself to that, the moment is for it, but so far I only see from the Dutch government a Prime Minister who jokes about it and does not dare to take any initiative. This is not only an extended middle finger to the Dutch MEPs, but also to the population. It is high time that the Prime Minister stopped his jokes, poached the sleeves and dared confront Macron. Looking back on my own experience over the last ten years, I think that the European Parliament is an effective legislative factory. If you are keen on what interests you want to defend, then working together with colleagues from other groups can do something for each other. For example, I have been able to do a lot for SMEs: at last, the EU is going to take action against fake invoices, tackle malpractice by large companies against SME suppliers, limit the power of the large Internet platforms and give franchisees more room for manoeuvre. We have also been able to do something about the preponderance of lobbyists from large companies. In any case, their activities will be visible, except for the PV. But when it comes to really broad lines, the EP always has to have motions for resolutions. Then we are dependent on those heads of government. Others have already said it here, but I would like to strengthen it: Parliament has just said again that this Council should not be a black box anymore. That Council needs to open up. The European Parliament wants both legislators to be transparent. The government says she's in favour of that, but nothing happens in practice. That must change if European democracy is worth a nice thing to the government. The European Parliament also wants to see an end to the exploitation ofzzp'ers and posted workers. Mr Leijten said that just when we were talking about the services market. However, if you want to put an end to this exploitation, you must have the courage to actually discuss the free movement of services in the Council. Shouldn't the Netherlands be able to make exceptions when we see people being exploited here? The European Parliament only has a future if the government takes it seriously. There is still far too little evidence of this. If we only need the whole institution as a kind of fig leaf to show how democratic the EU is, then we should shut it down. But if we consider it serious as a democratic institution, the Dutch Government may sometimes devote a separate chapter to it in the next state of the Union. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u146	Thank you, Mr. De Jong. There is a need for a short suspension. Then I'll give you the floor, Mr. Asscher. I'll suspend the meeting for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u147	We will continue with the debate on the State of the European Union. I give the floor to Mr Asscher, on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u148	Madam President. When I drove the train from Amsterdam to The Hague this morning, a large group of young people, cheerfully chattering, entered the train at each station. When we arrived, it was a crowd. It was fantastic to see. The young people were going to demonstrate for them but also for our future. The debate we are having here on the State of the European Union must, of course, be about their future and what Europe has to offer to answer the questions of that generation. I firmly believe that European cooperation is essential for many of these questions. But I would like to quote the following: 'For too long, the creation of a single European market has been seen as an ideal in itself. The European market is largely a fact. It has increased productivity and prosperity. She has given greater relief to inequality in income and wealth, knowledge and power. Europe's youth is no longer hoping for big and bigger only (...) Today, European integration can only prove its worth by improving the quality of life of all people in all the countries of Europe." This was written by Joop den Uyl in 1978, more than 40 years ago. Mr. Chairman. It is, of course, about improving the quality of life. The Dutch, Europeans, must be able to be sure of a Europe that protects, that is fair and that is sustainable. This requires a clear policy, which is more than just the market. A fair economy as a means of social progress. This means that Europeans must be sure of protection and that we must choose the workers. With the threat of hard Brexit, which comes closer every day and becomes more difficult to prevent every day, Europe must opt for protection. This means that, as far as the Labour Party is concerned, there should be a fund to protect workers and small businesses from that shock. I'm asking the Cabinet to respond to that. It could be financed from existing European funds. We must be sure of a Europe based on values and on our freedom. Several speakers have pointed out that they are at stake. While Europe has to act as the leader of the free world at this very moment, too many countries in their own homes are currently in bad shape. The Netherlands can take the lead and enforce that, above the Article 7 procedures, fines will soon follow in the Multiannual Financial Framework for countries that do not respect our value community. We must also be sure of a Europe that treats taxes fairly. No longer should a country like the Netherlands be able to be blackmailed by companies that say they are going to a country further down the road. Fair taxation is essential to achieve social progress. Because it takes too long, the Labour Party, like France, wants to take the initiative for its own digitalaks in the Netherlands. I am counting, among other things, on the support of D66 following the worthy plea for restricting the power of tech companies. Make them pay taxes, too. Then we can put it here in education. Mr. Chairman. We must also be sure of a clean and sustainable Europe. It seems appropriate to conclude today. Frans Timmermans has presented an agenda with the European Commission to embrace and meet sustainable development goals at European level. The Labour Party likes to see the Netherlands, that the cabinet, joins those goals. We're gonna have to choose. I understand that this Prime Minister does not think the European elections are important, because he does not want to change it: it is about the market and the market alone. But for the future of Europe and for the generations of today, it must be a question of ensuring the quality of life. That means making another choice. That does mean going to vote. This means opting for protection, for a clean future, for fair taxation and for defending our values. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u149	I really like the story. The question of whether you need to take care of everything at European level, or whether this can be done in your own city, in your own province or in your own country, is still underneath, but we are going to talk about it again. I have just asked a question about the great lobby circus that Europe is also, especially for multinational companies, which have interests other than social rights and a good climate. They have the importance of making money. Now it appears that our permanent representation is simply an extension of these large multinationals. How does the Labour Party feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u150	Thank you for the kind introduction to your question. I think it's a very fair question. I think that a great deal is being asked of our officials, our representation, if they also have to stand up for all kinds of companies to keep an eye on where our national interest is at stake and where an individual interest is at stake. I can imagine situations that go together, but certainly not standard and certainly not always. I am very curious about the answers to the legitimate question of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u151	It goes even further. In the financial field, for example, you have Eurofi, a kind of dome that pretends to be independent, but which is registered as a lobby organisation in the European Parliament. Those who pay for this, the banks, large financial institutions, actually buy their place from policy makers, European parliamentarians, but also from people from De Nederlandsche Bank and people from the Ministry of Finance. That is where a lot of policy is being cooked up, a lot of financial policy that we may have found afterwards was not in the interests of humans, animals and the environment. Would the Labour Party also welcome the fact that we at least say from the Netherlands that our supervisor in the financial markets and our ministry, which makes rules for those financial markets, no longer go to such lobbying platforms?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u152	I'd like to think about that for a while, but I understand and support the thought behind the question. My colleague Lilianne Ploumen has already argued that, for example, in making trade agreements, the non-profit organisations, the organisations that stand up for the environment and workers should be given much more voice. We also see that the commercial lobby is sometimes much stronger than the social interest and the social lobby. I think there should be a balance. I find it predicament to say now who should or should not talk to others, but I am very curious about the Government's answer. Maybe I'll come back to it in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u153	Thank you. Oh, Mr. Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u154	The European Parliament has voted in favour of a fundamental rights test, an app for fundamental rights, so that we do not have to intervene if it is too late, as in the case of Poland and Hungary. Commissioner Timmermans has told the European Parliament not to need that fundamental rights test. What does Mr Asscher think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u155	I think Timmermans has proven that with the limited possibilities in Article 7, he is doing an incredible deal. In Poland he is very popular with the people, but he is very hated by the government because he defends the independence of justice there. In Hungary he is threatened with the same fate as Mrs Sargentini, namely that he is no longer welcome there. In that respect, I understand that he says: I am already doing well with Article 7. As far as I am concerned, more is needed and should not be so difficult and you do not need such a complicated procedure. You would like to be strict before accession, but you would also like to have more effective instruments after accession. That fundamental rights test is one of them. I also have just argued that, in my view, we are also in agreement on financial sanctions against countries that do not comply with our common values.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u156	Thank you, Mr. Asscher. I now give the floor to Mr Tang, Member of the European Parliament for the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u157	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The state of the world was recently reported by Oxfam. The 26 richest people in the world own as much as the poorest half of the world's population. Among those 26 are the owners of the largest companies: Bill Gates, Mark Zuckerberg and Jeff Bezos. It is the largest companies that pay the least tax and for which we work for free every day by giving them our data. It symbolizes a dichotomy. The working class of the 99% loses it from the 1% of big money and big data. There is an ongoing global concentration of data, power and money. I would think: it is time for equal distribution of knowledge, power and income. But that's not the motto of this cabinet. That's "everyone for themselves" or "quibbling." At least that seems to be the attitude in Europe. For Mr Jetten is absolutely right in saying that it is not about what is on paper, but about what is happening in practice. I see countries coming together. Merkel and Macron conclude the Aachen Treaty to give Europe a separate role in this world. And the Foreign Minister writes an opinion paper on less democracy, more bureaucracy and more power for Member States. Merkel and Macron come up with Meseberg's statement, and the Minister of Finance collects seven dwarves to point countries to their own responsibility and not to strengthen the euro area. I read this morning the argument of former diplomat Korthals Altes for a strategic dialogue between European NATO countries and Russia, and the Prime Minister supports Trump in calling off the INF Treaty. Kibbling may be a habit here in The Hague, but it does not have much influence in Europe. This calls for a constructive attitude that will strengthen and defend Europe. Europe is a union of values. That's what Stef Blok writes, and rightly so. But Freedom House noted that for the first time there is a European country, namely Hungary, "partly free." I see, therefore, that if the Italians break the budgetary standards, the cabinet will not be able to say anything if millions are being cheated by Orbán and his cronies and if civil liberties are being violated in Hungary. Why is the cabinet so reluctant? Let the cabinet take a constructive attitude by sitting down with other countries and tackling social inequality, including by making everyone pay a fair tax. The social contract is disrupted when fraudsters and criminals evade tax. You would think that this is well arranged in the Netherlands, but on the contrary: an investigation by the Social Democrats in the European Parliament shows that 22 billion is disappearing because of tax evasion and that the Netherlands is not investigating this. I would ask the Cabinet to investigate this. The social contract will certainly be disrupted if the largest companies in the world pay the least tax. Be constructive and work on reforming the tax on profits. Be constructive and dare to take decisions by majority. But get on with it and support the digitals for the biggest tech companies in the world, or, if necessary, a tax on advertising revenue alone, because by doing so, we will at least allow those companies to pay a fair share, and the commercial model, which constantly besets us with ads, will also become less attractive. Finally. These large companies have an impact not only on our economy, but also on our society and on our democracy. Make binding agreements with Google and Facebook. It is not in their commercial interest to ensure fair elections. The Netherlands is heading for elections. We get elections for the Provincial States, the water boards, the First Chamber and the European Parliament. These elections are currently completely manipulated by the big money, by sending anonymous advertisements and dark posts. Why does the cabinet not make binding agreements with Facebook in particular, so that it is clear from whom an advertisement comes? That's the least you could expect. I'll finish, Mr. Chairman. It's obvious to the PvdA. For us, Europe is a dike that protects against the flood of money and data and against the sometimes threatening flood of democracy and the rule of law, so that we can be sure of shared values, and so that we can be sure that there is a fair future for everyone, the 99% and the 1%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u158	Thank you, Mr. Tang. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raan on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u159	Thank you, Mr President. Today many thousands of students tell us, politicians, that they no longer take it. Today we could look into the eyes of the adults of the future, who will truly live in another world. It is up to us today's adults to take responsibility for this, because we are doing too little about it yesterday and in our opinion today. So that responsibility is far from being taken, and so the students continue to come, in increasing numbers, we expect. The Party for Animals is right about them. Mr. Chairman. Language is important. Language is used as a weapon. The European Commission agrees. The Commission has gone on a crusade against false language and fake news, and rightly so. But who decides what fake news is? Is that perhaps Jean-Claude Juncker himself, the President of the European Commission, the first among the equals, the same President Juncker who recently spoke about the achievements of the euro? He spoke of the euro as a symbol of unity, sovereignty and stability. Let's consider the three concepts Juncker used. Unity: what kind of unity did Klaas Knot have in mind when he openly distanced himself four years ago from the policy of the ECB, the policy of monetary expansion? This did not lead to unity, but to division: a division between north and south and a division between wealthy and non-powerful. It will leave its mark for many years to come. I'd like a response from our president. President? The Netherlands doesn't have a president at all, does it? Language is important. I'll come back to that; hold that thought. Stability: what kind of stability? For the Greeks, who have to live in poverty from day to day, because they have been messed up by their own European political elite and then stripped of their clothes by the Northern European grand banks? I'd like a response from our president. Finally, sovereignty, the euro as a Trojan horse for the various deeper political integrations. Who is thinking of calling the euro "a symbol of sovereignty"? The euro is precisely the symbol of surrendering sovereignty. I'd like a response from the president. Mr. Chairman. And yet President Juncker spoke about unity, sovereignty and stability. This President, the first among the equals, still wants to be called "President" in the European-American Declaration on the Free Trade Agreement. That is why we would like to ask our Prime Minister, Mr Juncker, because of course he is ordinary, not President-in-Office, if he can urge Mr Juncker to present himself as a 'chairman' in future. Language is important and misunderstandings are born quickly. You just saw it happen. Fake news is such a serious problem that the European Union itself should not be guilty of it. When the unelected President of the European Union maintains the image that he is President of Europe, that is actually fake news. When the unelected President of the European Council claims that the Greek crisis has not been caused by Europe but has been solved correctly, it is actually fake news. Presenting the euro as a symbol of unity, sovereignty and stability is fake news in optima forma. What independent body is going to assess whether what the EU claims is true? Could our Prime Minister, because that is what he is able to answer and is he willing to make an effort for such a test? Mr President, I will conclude. The state of distress in which Europe is experiencing the exit of the United Kingdom has led us to call for an end to the dragging of animals to and from the United Kingdom until there is clarity. This room didn't think any of that was necessary. My colleague will continue to do so later, but I see an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u160	Were you done with your contribution?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u161	Yes, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u162	Thank you. Mrs. Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u163	Language is indeed also important, but it is not necessary to make something really nonsense, because I am now confused about what the Animal Party thinks of Mrs Arib, our chairman of the House of Representatives. She writes herself and assumes that she is "President of the House of Representatives." Are we going to table a motion to call Mrs Arib to order?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u164	Language is important: it is Party before Animals, not Party of Animals. When GroenLinks submits that motion, we will of course take a serious look at it. I think it's more common that you're talking about "chairperson" by now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u165	It's a bit of a personal fact for you, Mrs. Arib. I'm sorry, but I think this is bullshit. I think it's very important to talk business. I would also like to talk about the power of the European Commission or about the influence of the Member States; these are all important matters. But if the point of the Party for Animals is that someone calls himself "president" which is a perfectly logical term in English... I think you could really have used the time here better. Thank you, President of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u166	Thank you, Mrs Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u167	Thanks for Mrs Buitenweg's review. It is, of course, to illustrate the point that, on the one hand, the European Commission, and also the European Union, are concerned about fake news, while I think that the more serious part of our contribution was about the three examples I mentioned, which the European Commission itself puts forward, and what is clearly fake news. That is the point that the substantive contribution was about and not so much about what you seem to be paying a great deal of attention to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u168	I think this was part of fake news, too. That was kind of the point I wanted to make. I don't have any need to defend anything from anyone else, but if you say that there's a lot of fake news being put into the world and then says that the big problem is that Juncker calls himself "president" - which would have all kinds of implications - then there's some kind of fake news being brought into the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u169	I think I'm gonna be able to respond to that for a while. Again, that was not the main element of my speech. The main element of my speech, Mr President, once again for Mrs Buitenweg, is that when fake news is taken seriously by the European Commission, and that is very important, it is also important for her to look at her own expressions. Well, there's something to be done about that, too. The message that we are sending is the question: is the Minister prepared to see who in Europe is judging the fake news itself? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u170	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Hazekamp on behalf of the Animal Party in the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u171	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prior to this debate, we received a note from the cabinet containing a vision for Europe. When I asked the Prime Minister in Strasbourg about his vision, he quoted Helmut Schmidt: wer Visionen hat, soll zum Arzt gehen. So this vision seems to be progressing. However, the protection of animals does not occur once throughout the text, while millions of animals still suffer indescribably in Europe, for example during the terrible transport of animals. To see what is true and what is not, I myself travelled to Romania, Slovenia and Croatia this summer. Animals from all over Europe are being transferred to cargo ships and transported to the Middle East and North Africa. The abuse of animals I've seen there can't be described with a pen. I often wake up from the screams of these animals. Overheated animals, crowded trucks and an absolute low point: a bull that literally hit between shore and ship and was hoisted to a leg with a crane on board the ship. That is absolutely unacceptable. Last year I also mentioned these animal transports to non-European countries in this house. I pointed out to the Minister that these animal transports are contrary to European rules and to a ruling by the European Court of Justice. The Minister's answer was: the cabinet checks whether this ruling is legally applicable, including for current exports, and if so, the NVWA will maintain. It is clear to the European Parliament. There is no doubt that that ruling is binding. So my question is: how many times has the NVWA actually acted against these animal transports to third countries over the past year? Or has the cabinet now come to the conclusion that decisions of the European Court are not binding? Another topical issue is the influence of multinationals on European policy, as we have seen in the authorisation of agricultural poison, for example. The authorities committed plagiarism during admission and copied three quarters of the safety report from industry. Students and researchers are suspended at plagiarism, but the poison industry is rewarded. The Netherlands also likes to take action for the cart of multinationals. Yesterday the report Captured states, from lobby watchdog Corporate Europe Observatory, appeared. In it you can read how the Netherlands in Brussels acts as a stroman for multinationals. For example, in 2016 the Netherlands, as the EU's President, closed 90 million euros of taxpayers' money to a European defence programme, at the request of the arms industry, with an option for an additional 13 billion euros in the near future. Mr. Chairman. Is it normal for the Minister to speak at an event of an arms lobby club and then use the position as EU President to give the same club EUR 90 million? Is it normal for lobbyists from the Dutch fishing industry to be present illegally in European fisheries quota negotiations? Is it normal for our Minister to even ask the fisheries industry for approval during these negotiations? I do not think that is normal, especially as long as the overfishing under the leadership of the Netherlands continues on a massive scale. Pending the answer, I would like to present to the Minister a copy of the Captured States report. Finally, I would like to wish all present students and climate strikers every success on behalf of the Party for Animals. It is very good that after the great action of Belgian students you are now also here in large numbers in climate action. I also believe that European agricultural subsidies should be abolished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u172	Thank you, Mrs Hazekamp. I now give the floor to Mrs Van der Graaf on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u173	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. This year, 2019, on the one hand, is the conclusion of a parliamentary term. It is the last year of the European Parliament, to which a number of MEPs have already referred, but also the last year of this European Commission. That means a new European Parliament and a new Commission. In the meantime, negotiations are continuing on a reformed multiannual budget. A new period also offers opportunities. At the beginning of that period, choices were made in the light of the end of the financial crisis, as wrote the cabinet in the State of the European Union. In the meantime, the world's gonna look different. We have faced other challenges. We cannot simply rely on the international legal order in force, in which all countries comply with the agreements they have made with each other. Let me take the example of the United States and Russia, which are calling off a medium-range missile treaty. The world order is changing, but we also know our challenges within the European Union itself. Shared values such as the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights are under pressure and are even called into question. The United Kingdom is about to leave the Union. In the light of all these developments, the Christian Union supports the realistic vision that the Cabinet now has of European cooperation and the themes that the Cabinet focuses on, such as migration, security, a strong, sustainable economy, climate and the promotion of values and interests abroad. On these issues, we benefit from a strong European Union, which leaves its hands at once in a turbulent world. Mr. Chairman. We also need to stay sharp and keep a critical eye on the European Union. Member States must comply with the commitments, such as the Stability and Growth Pact. In the intensive cooperation we have with each other, you have to be able to rely on each other. This requires a responsible attitude on the part of the Member States themselves. Nor can it be without a strong role of Member States and their parliaments as far as the Christian Union is concerned. They must appeal to their own governments for their responsibility for the European Parliament, European policy and the commitments made. It is also important for the Christian Union to make the decision-making process more transparent. In this context, the Remkes Commission also makes an interesting recommendation on a better disclosure regime on proposed EU policies. How does the government view that? The government embraces the advice of the Scientific Council for Government Policy for greater variation and flexibility, and I can follow that. In the light of the Brexit, these are actually very valuable recommendations. How does the government view that? Mr. Chairman. March 29th is getting closer. And it's daily rates when it comes to the Brexit. The Christian Union prefers not to see the British go and asks the government to make every effort in order to prevent the British from leaving, but if that does not happen, to do everything in its power to prevent a no-dealbrexit, so a departure without an agreement, because that does not benefit anyone, and then there are only losers. We ask the government to do this when it takes a little more time to reach agreements. I'd like a response from the government to that. Then there's the rule of law. Fundamental values such as freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and human rights are under pressure. They are no longer self-evident, not in Poland, not in Hungary and not in Slovakia. In Romania too, we have to ask that question. What are we supposed to expect in the context of their Presidency in this respect? Membership of the Union is subject to conditions and we are strict with regard to candidate countries, but we must also be firm with regard to the Member States of the Union itself. You need to be able to talk to each other about this. Last year, the Chamber adopted a motion from my hand on a peer review mechanism. I ask the government how it is working on this. Mr. Chairman. In this context, I have two more questions. I would like to draw attention to the issue of religious freedom, because where there is no freedom of religion, other human rights are often very poor. We therefore call for the extension of the mandate of the Special Envoy of Religious Freedom in Europe. Is the government prepared to make an effort to this end in the European Council? As far as fisheries are concerned, we are faced with an announced or planned infringement procedure with regard to pulse fishing. Can we trust that the government will do everything in its power to prevent the European Commission from doing so?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u174	I have a question about the Brexit. I find it remarkable that Mrs Van der Graaf is now saying that we must do everything we can to prevent a no-dealbrexit, when two weeks ago we voted on exactly such a motion from me and she voted against it. Shall we retable that motion today so that it can make it? The motion didn't make it then because the coalition didn't vote in favour. So let's table that same motion today with the same operative part in order to do everything possible to prevent a no-dealbrexit? You can't argue with that, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u175	I understand Mrs Leijten's question. If she has listened carefully to my plea, she has heard that there is also a periodicity in it. At the moment we see that the situation is still unclear. A deal has been struck and the British are still members of the European Union at the moment. So in the first instance, the Christian Union asks the government to make an effort to keep the British involved for as long as possible. That is the first plea I have made.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u176	Of course, fine, but we're talking about March 29th. We'll see what happens. It is even said by Tusk that he hopes that there will be a place in hell for those who have proposed the Brexit. So there's not really room for: we're gonna get out of here. Two weeks ago in the debate, I said to the Foreign Minister: we all do not want a Brexit without an agreement, but we all run into it very hard...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u177	We are not going to do that debate again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u178	... and the Dutch position should be that we say we should avoid a no-dealbrexit. Then I move and the Christian Union votes against. I think it's kind of crazy to make such a warm plea here to avoid a Brexit without an agreement, but to vote against if you can actually change the course of this minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u179	All I can say on this is that if you want to come to agreements you need both parties. Those are the countries of the European Union on the one hand, and that is the United Kingdom on the other. That requires an effort from both. So let me fill in my question to the government. The Christian Union believes that the government on the Dutch side and on the European side, on the side of the European Union countries, should do everything possible to prevent that no deal. So you're willing to do that, even if it takes a little more space in time. But we do not have that entirely in our own hands, because we are dependent on the British too, and they do not yet give any clear wine on this issue. They haven't figured out if we can get out yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u180	Thank you, Mrs Van der Graaf. I now give the floor to Mr Van Dalen. He is a member of the European Parliament for the Christian Union, but he is also speaking today on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u181	Thank you, Mr President. We commemorate this year that 75 years ago the Allies landed on the invasion beaches in Normandy. Many have given their lives there, so that now many, even here, can live in freedom. During the preparations of that day and also on D-day the British played a leading role. I would like to draw a line on that, because whatever happens to the British in the European Union in the coming years and perhaps for months now, we still owe them our thanks. Our friendship with the British will continue, even if they leave the Union unexpectedly. If it's up to me, they stay in it. I really hope so. You can already see that the political chaos in England is increasing. Financial and economic chaos is also increasing. Companies are leaving, investments aren't being made anymore. So, I think, it is important for the British themselves that they stay, but also for the Netherlands. Especially if it were to be a no deal, we know that greenhouse horticulture, transport and fishing are going to get hit hard. So I think it would be good for us to see if we can keep the British in it. Mr. Chairman. As far as the state of the European Union is concerned, it is simply not good. We can see that the rule of law is under pressure in a number of countries in Eastern Europe. Some have already been mentioned, including Romania, which is now President and where the government is doing everything it can to deny corruption. We also see that the political landscape across Europe is fragmented and is further fragmented. Even an old fox like Berlusconi wants to return and take another piece of it. Then Italy. It has already been mentioned in the debate: Italy has systematically violated the provisions of the Stability and Growth Pact; France, moreover. As far as I am concerned, therefore, there is full support for the government and for Minister Hoekstra, who is behind the Italians and the Commission in order to explain very clearly what is going on with this new budget. This can't be! But for us too, dark clouds are gathering, especially for Dutch fishing. In the Netherlands, about ten or twelve years ago, a wonderful new fishing method was developed, called pulse trawling. Extremely sustainable, with a reduction in fuel consumption and a reduction in CO. You can fish much more selectively. You can't raise unwanted by-catches anymore. The sea floor isn't getting bad anymore. It is really a wonderful method to fish, sustainable and responsible. It was therefore logical and correct for the European Commission to come forward with a proposal two years ago to fully release these pulse trawl fisheries. But then a whole discussion started, mainly fed from France and the organization Bloom. This week we have even read that European Commission officials, on a proposal from Bloom, want to initiate infringement proceedings against the Netherlands for issuing pulse permits, whereas the Commission has just been there. They've approved it. Bloom even says that the ALDE Commissioner, Mrs Vestager, supports them on this whole issue. So my question to ALDE politicians here next to me, Rutte and Blok, is: what are you going to do to prevent this infringement procedure from going ahead? I think it is important that you also intervene with Mr Juncker and Mr Timmermans, so that the College of Commissioners says: we are not going to do this. I would like to hear a comment from the government on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u182	Thank you very much, Mr Van Dalen. I now give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u183	Mr. Chairman. The day before yesterday, U.S. President Trump announced the annual State of the Union. In it, the word "Europe" occurred once, in a reference to World War II. There are many references to the United States in the State of the European Union. A quote: "The transatlantic bond is important. The European Union must keep the United States firmly on board." Apparently, that wish is quite one-sided. Since President Trump took office, we know that the United States is looking at the world differently than we were used to. This inevitably means that we in Europe must also look at the world differently, especially because we are faced with an internationally assertive and sometimes aggressive attitude of China and Russia. However, there is hardly any mention of a real re-evaluation of Europe's geopolitical position. This is also difficult in a European Union where the emphasis seems to be more and more on emphasising and increasing divisions than on striving for more unity. On paper, we read fine words about the importance and values of the European Union, but in practice, several countries choose their own position primarily. There is not much that can be done about this within the existing Treaty provisions. In addition, there are always countries that keep their heads above their heads from the new Member States. The most pregnant example is Italy. It seems as if the Netherlands is the only Member State that is openly advocating effective action against the government in Rome's lack of budgetary discipline. Can the Prime Minister state what's going on with that? Are there any other countries that share the Dutch view and will the Commission take any further action? Moscovici has given the impression that we were actually the only country to cross. I hope there were more of these. Other examples are Poland and Hungary, where the rule of law is being used. This Tuesday, Commissioner Timmermans gave the European Affairs Commission an interesting insight into the complications of actually tackling these countries. Does the cabinet share Mr Timmermans' optimism that the situation in these countries will improve in the long term due to pressure from the people themselves? In the meantime, does the cabinet agree that we should continue to pursue dialogue with Warsaw and Budapest, even though Article 7 of the Treaty of Amsterdam does not seem to have the binding force that is actually desirable in practice? Is the Prime Minister therefore prepared to comment on Mr Timmermans' suggestion that Article 7 should be reviewed within the Council and that the Commission and the European Parliament should be involved? Does he agree with him that the Venice Commission, an advisory body of the Council of Europe, deserves much more support? Today, British Prime Minister May is talking to President Juncker in Brussels. What are the Prime Minister's expectations about the results? If Mrs May has to go back to London empty-handed, to what extent is a no-dealbrexit still averted? At the Brexit we see European unity, but it is often lacking in other areas of international politics. Venezuela is a current example. With references to the beginning of my contribution, I say that more consensus is needed. I assume the Prime Minister agrees with me. What possibilities does he see to achieve them? Finally, a comment on an initiative by the European Commission. I am now quoting a passage that I would never have liked to read in my life, from a piece by the European Commission, not dated 15 January 2119, but 15 January 2019. On that date, the Commission presented a communication to open the debate on the reform of the decision-making process on tax proposals. Decision-making on tax proposals is currently taking place unanimously. The Commission wants to move away from this method of decision-making and move forward to decision-making through qualified majorities for tax proposals, with a role for the European Parliament. I would like to hear from the Prime Minister a response to this premature statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u184	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. I now give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u185	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. What I could not have imagined in preparation, namely that my contribution to the State of the European Union, the reflection on the future of the EU, would be in the light of my grandchildren, was just happening to me. It's just that I just became a grandpa again. I haven't seen her yet, but it's about the most beautiful baby in the western hemisphere, I suspect. And a big lady of over 8 pounds; this especially for the ladies among us. Yeah, that's another really bad comment, I realize.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u186	That is not good either, but congratulations!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u187	Mr. Chairman. I am touched by your heartfelt congratulations and also by the agreement of my fellow Members. I will convey that agreement with a hand-clap and congratulations as well. Mr. Chairman. In previous debates, I have argued that we should not build extra wings on the building of Europe, on that House of Europe, while the foundation is failing and the roof is leaking. Last year, during the debate on the State of the European Union, I pointed to a number of fundamental looming errors in the EU. First of all, the continuing insidious transfer of powers. Secondly, the threat of a transfer union and, thirdly, the political agendas of certain European institutions. I would like to hear how my motion on the role of the European Commission, adopted last year, has been implemented. Mr. Chairman. As far as I am concerned, I often miss the ordinary, healthy farmers' understanding of the future of the European Union. Our central question when assessing the European proposals and the vision of this cabinet on the EU is: what is realistic? What is the best way of serving the citizens of Europe with European institutions? Before answering that question, I would like to mention three important concerns for my group. First of all, the Brexit. I've listened to the colleagues. I share the concern, I share the disappointment, not to leave any misunderstandings about it. But please, let the Brexit be a warning. Far-reaching integration at the expense of national sovereignty and individuality can alienate EU citizens. Secondly, parliamentary control and the influence on Europe and Europe's developments must be improved. The Member States need to get back on their feet. In its recent report Low thresholds, high dikes, the State Committee on Parliament's system made seven valuable recommendations in this area. I look forward to an appreciation from the cabinet of these recommendations. It may even be possible to do so in response by the Prime Minister. Thirdly, concerns about the dark clouds from Brussels, Paris and London, especially the fisheries sector. For example, the imminent ban on the pulse cortex, based on unreasonable emotions. Wageningen published yesterday the dramatic consequences, both financially and for nature, as well as for entrepreneurship. Officials leaked their opinion on infringement proceedings. If you let that work on you, you're wondering, what's going on here? What's the rule now? And what rules there? Emotion or ratio and innovation? EU officials or fisheries ministers? I would like a response from the Prime Minister to this. Mr. Chairman. Then back to my central question. Is the cabinet vision of the EU realistic as far as we are concerned? Our answer is yes and no. Of course, you would have expected it to be either 'yes' or 'no'. You are used to clear positions of the SGP, but in this case it should be both. Yes: variation must be a starting point and cooperation must be cost-effective. Yes: the EU must serve the interests of its citizens and set priorities. However, as far as we are concerned, the cabinet can sometimes step up its efforts to adjust the EU's proposed course of action in relation to certain developments. European coordination of border surveillance? Fine, but not a European border army. The same applies to a European army and the alignment of NATO and the EU. Towards a modern and sustainable multi-annual financial framework and fair burden-sharing. But we do not agree with a multiannual financial framework that is growing to perhaps 1,300 billion. I will conclude with two questions to the Prime Minister. How are we going to find that the Cabinet has European variations in its favour, in line with the report of the Scientific Council for Government Policy? Second. How does the Netherlands make concrete work at EU level of keeping the United States on board? I just wanted to leave it at that. I may no longer participate in the second term, but then joyful family commitments call me elsewhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u188	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. I see a few colleagues looking strange, but grandpas and grandmothers can't stand them. Then Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u189	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was wondering if there could be half a day off for grandpas, but maybe it'll come later. I am wrong to say that this could be done at European level. Mr. Chairman. In heaven there is a special place for politicians who have the ability to wait until the twentieth speaker and then listen interested. When it comes to Europe, the central question is: what are we doing? Do we do it for Europe, do we do it for the drivers, or do we do it, as we think of DENK, for the citizens, for the people? So what do these European citizens need and what exactly are they asking for? Research shows that, as far as citizens are concerned, the European Union should be the society of shared values. A diverse society, in which we can be who we are, can enjoy the freedoms that have been fought for for a long time and can also abide by the democratic rules of the game. A European Union of and for people. There is no place in that society for exclusion, racism, discrimination and xenophobia. Unfortunately, reports from security services show that there is an increasing threat of right-wing extremism at European level. DENK is in favour of a European approach. Countries that do too little about this lose their right to vote as far as DENK is concerned. When it comes to Europe, DENK stands for a united, just society, for a Europe of brotherhood and diversity. Solidarity must also be organised through greater cooperation in the tax field. DENK is in favour of the digitax, so that internetreuzen like Google, Facebook, Amazon and many others will pay their fair share. The influence of this kind of inter-terrorism on everyday life is enormous and rises by the day. How do we ensure, at European level, that the monopoly and data are not abused? We saw at Facebook and Cambridge Analytica that those data are indeed leaking and being abused. In addition, a tax must be introduced to counter financial speculation. It is antisocial when other countries compete away. Eventually there will be no money left for education, care, roads and bridges. Europe's citizens want a coordinated approach to asylum and immigration. Fortunately, coordination and cooperation have led to a sharp decline, but desperate refugees in shady boats are still trying to reach the Greek and Spanish coasts. Some European countries absorb disproportionately many refugees. None of them. They are avoiding European solidarity. They do benefit from the freedoms and funds of other countries, but do not assume their responsibilities, purely for domestic policy reasons. Opportunism at the top. When it comes to immigration and asylum, prevention is better than cure. An old and wise saying. As far as DENK is concerned, it is crucial to focus on de-escalation of conflicts and prevention, but also on fair trade. This means that Europe needs to impose more and stricter rules on multinationals that plunder and pollute other countries, cause brain drain and exploit poverty. Citizens also want a democratic Europe with more legitimacy, because there seem to be parallel worlds: the world of technocratic leaders in Brussels, who think they always come up with brilliant plans for the benefit of European citizens, and the world of those citizens, who are critical and sometimes ungrateful. It is one of the most important issues for current and future leaders to increase that acceptance. As far as DENK is concerned, this can only be done with more transparency, more democracy, and integrity and honesty. So not as recently as the appointment of Selmayr, who obtained his PhD as Secretary General in a few minutes, or as with former VVD Commissioner Kroes, who, upon her arrival, promised never to go to business again and then to join Uber, the company she first supervised. Finally, Mr President. What undermines legitimacy is the fact that the European Court of Auditors made a negative assessment of the many billions that Europe itself spent for 22 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u190	Thank you, Mr. Azarkan. This was the first term of office. I'm suspending the meeting...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u191	"Afrends" it says. That's new!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u192	Yes. That's just for you! No, I'm not. I shall suspend the sitting until 5:05 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u193	We are continuing the debate on the State of the European Union and we have come to the answers of the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u194	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The idea is that I say a few things about the strategic agenda and European Monetary Union, and that Mr Blok will then answer the questions in the area of institutionalia, Brexit, MFF, the Common Security and Defence Policy, internal and external security policy, rule of law, coalition formation and a category of varia. This means that the majority of the workload will be with the Foreign Minister this afternoon. In order to do so, a few preliminary remarks in advance. It has also been pointed out by many, I think, in the first term of the Chamber, that we are, of course, dealing with a European Union that does not work in isolation, but has to relate to developments in the world. Developments that are increasingly showing an unstable image, especially directly around Europe. Look at the situation and the relationship with Russia, the developments in the Middle East, in North Africa, the unpredictability of the US government and the rise of strong men in a number of countries. All this is, of course, a reality that Europe has to relate to. This further strengthens us in the belief that, in addition to being a community of values and a strong internal market, the strongest market in the whole world, the largest trading bloc in the world.................................................................................................................................................................................. The fact that we are not alone in this uncertain world is therefore, in addition to the economic element, also a security element, and that translates into important matters such as how we deal with climate change and how we deal with migratory flows. Against this background, it is therefore also important that there should be a European Union that focuses on a number of important tasks, which is also very good at doing so, and which, therefore, many things should not be done or prevented. In the last five years, we do not think that this has gone so crazy with the current European Commission. This is a Commission that, starting in 2014, tried to be a Europe that focuses on a number of key tasks from the point of view of declustering and debureaucratisation. Frans Timmermans contributed to this and others did. The President of the Commission, of course, has also been encouraged to do so by a large majority of the European Council. Against that background, I would also like to say something about decisiveness. Mr Jetten referred to this just now when he said: show where the priorities lie and dare to act. Mr President, to the chamberlain: I was going to have a cappuccino, wasn't it? Oh, delicious! Also important. Depth: I therefore think that five important priorities emerge from the documents before us. Firstly, an integrated approach to migration, because we need to make irregular migration flows to and within the European Union manageable. The second is ensuring security in Europe. Three, a strong and sustainable economy, offering protection. Four, an efficient and effective climate policy, where it is important that Europe is committed, at the end of this year or early next year, to the new 2030 and 2050 targets. You know the commitment of the Dutch government. I should also like to point out that what happened out here today was really inspiring: so many young people working in the fight against climate change, who are calling for attention to be paid to it. I also said to the media: to the extent that this is an appeal to the Dutch government to become even more ambitious, that seems complicated to me, because even more in favour of this 55% reduction, I do not see one-two-three success. But let's not make a fight about who is overburdening each other in the Netherlands in setting goals. Above all, it is an appeal to the rest of Europe to follow the Netherlands in these climate ambitions, to ensure that the rest of Europe also moves towards that 55%, in a way in which both people can experience this in their personal lives as well as the companies remain competitive and still make their fair share. But in itself, it's inspiring. Can I have said that again here, Mr President? That so many young people are committed to the future of this earth.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u195	Were you done with the first subject?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u196	No. That was my fourth point. I saw Mr Jetten count. The fifth point is, of course, a European Union that protects European values and interests abroad. These are the five priorities, which are also reflected in the agenda before us today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u197	I would be very sorry if young people were given the wrong idea of the situation. The Prime Minister says the Netherlands is ahead of us. That is true of the ambitions, the goals; the goals to achieve the goals, as the Prime Minister always says. But of course it is not true as far as the result is concerned. There are a lot of European countries that are much stronger at this than the Netherlands. I think it is good to give our young people a clear picture of that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u198	That nuance can be justified on parts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u199	Sure!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u200	Good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u201	Yes, Mr. Chairman. That brings me to a few questions that have been asked to me. Maybe first a comment on the European Parliamentary elections. Can I take away the misunderstanding here that I wouldn't consider it important? I understood the question in Buitenhof so that I was asked: aren't they a test case to see how the populist parties are going to do it, how strong are they? On this, I believe that given the very low average turnout at European elections, which are not really a test case for how the populist parties are doing. I am referring here to the wrong type of populist party, if I may add that. I hope we're all populist here, but you have a good kind of populism that also takes responsibility, and a wrong kind of populism that doesn't take responsibility. So I have only interpreted the question in this way: how do the populist parties who do not want to take responsibility in those elections? At that low turnout, that's hard to measure. I cannot deny that what has remained on the screen is that I do not think the European elections are important. Of course, in my own party, I have also had to make an effort to get everyone motivated to participate in these elections, partly by explaining what I had wanted to say and what had apparently not happened entirely. So also to Malik Azmani and the others on the VVD list: here again I say openly what I already told you on the Monday night after that Buitenhof broadcast.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u202	Thank you for the Prime Minister's reply. It was a pretty long answer, though. So just to be sure, so that we have that Buitenhof misunderstanding definitively out of the world: the Prime Minister considers this year's election for the European Parliament to be relevant and important and he calls on all the Dutch to vote in particular.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u203	A totally good summary. I can't change a comma on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u204	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u205	Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come to a few questions. First of all, of course, these are the questions about the euro. Mr Mulder has asked a question on this subject, but there have also been questions from the CDA, Mr Omtzigt. Mr Van Raan has also said something about it, as has others. First of all, let me say that it is of course extremely important that countries comply with the budgetary rules and that the Commission is also monitoring them. That is a well-known position of the Dutch Government. This is crucial for stability within EMU. In this context, it is important that the European Commission actually and strictly applies the agreements and rules that we have agreed with each other. Look, I am so in the race that we, like the Netherlands, have always forwarded a Europe that is Community, with a strong role for the European Commission, in the belief that the European Commission also protects the smaller Member States, taking initiatives of course, but is also the one that must apply the rules strictly and impartially. Then it would be harmful for a Commission to say in the end, and it has actually been said in so many words, even in the past, 'for political reasons, we think that we smaller Member States are sticking to those rules in the Stability and Growth Pact, but, you know, with Italy it is a little different; and you know, if we do it too tight there, you run the risk that we would even have to keep to those agreements in the near future'. Against this background, we are really concerned about the Italian situation, as was also pointed out by the euro group on 21 January. We question the basis of the European Commission's decision and doubt whether the SGP, the Stability and Growth Pact, has been correctly implemented. I myself have had a great deal of experience of this in my talks with President Juncker, I must say 'the President of the European Commission, Juncker' at the G20 in Argentina, at the end of November. I also discussed it last Thursday, in my phone conversation with the same President of the European Commission. Wopke Hoekstra, the finance minister, discussed this in detail during the eurogroup. He managed, among other things, to ensure that the Commission, on the initiative of the Netherlands and with the support of other Member States, promised to provide a written explanation of its decision. It's important that he did, that he did it. We're waiting for that explanation now. We are concerned about this, because we, in the end, do not do this, putting Dutch public finances in order, because that is what Europe needs to do. We are doing this because we just don't want to move shit over to the next generation. This applies not only to the environment, but also to the budget. We don't want to shift blame. Then it is important that not other parts of the euro area get away with it. That is damaging, and that also damages confidence. This is an example where, for political reasons, the Commission, which is intended to comply with strict rules, decides not to do so at some point, and I think that is wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u206	I thank the Prime Minister for this clear answer, which is in line with what Minister Hoekstra told us this morning in committee. We have also been informed today that the European Commission has adjusted the growth forecast for Italy from 1%, still in December, to virtually zero. The headlines in the newspapers are now saying: Italy is heading towards a new budgetary crisis due to poor growth forecasts. This is, of course, the concern that we all have. I think that the Prime Minister and also the Minister of Finance are keen to remain very clear and strict in this respect, unlike Moscovici. Unfortunately, do you find this bad message a good extra support to hold on to that line?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u207	Of course, I fully agree with Mr Van Rooijen's question, but let me also try to answer formally well. It is, of course, the European Commission that must determine whether they comply with the Stability and Growth Pact. On the basis of all the figures which are now visible in Italy's budget, we cannot imagine that this would actually be the Commission's position. That is why we are very concerned about the decision. What Mr Van Rooijen refers to is the recent development of growth rates. Then I come to a point that Mr Omtzigt asked for. He asked if we shouldn't ask for some kind of second opinion. I wouldn't be for that. We must also be careful not to lose out on new growth rates ourselves. I therefore agree with the spirit of the matter. The concern is great and it is really not reduced by what we hear today from Italy but by trying to prevent us from setting up an SGP body, an assessment body. We can't do that either. On the basis of the public figures on the Italian budget, it is clear that they do not comply in any way with the Stability and Growth Pact.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u208	The objective of the Commission's position was 2.04%. So then it was 1% and now it is 0%. It could still be -1%. The pressure on Italy must be increased, mustn't it? You do not have to say that in public, but it is clear what lies behind your words. We have great concerns about this. The deposit guarantee scheme is something that lies ahead. I'd like to point out here that if it goes all that way, we'll stop it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u209	That deposit guarantee scheme is as far away, as we know, for reasons of risk reduction and the order in which we want it to be. By the way, that is a question that the CDA has asked, and what is the situation with these risk reduction assessments? I'll get to that in a minute. Let me separate it from the deposit guarantee scheme. Let us just talk about the Stability and Growth Pact itself. Here you do not want a Commission to deviate from its pure referee role for political reasons. It is not for nothing that we have advocated before as the Netherlands a more independent Commissioner for Budgetary Control, similar to the position of Vestager, the Commissioner for Competition. It didn't work out, but it did. That's when Olli became Rehn. In this Commission, you can see that this is slipping a little bit, and that is not good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u210	Please continue. Or do you have another question on this point, Mrs Buitenweg?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u211	Last time, I got the Prime Minister. He said I might have a point, or at least on parts. I hope to bring that back in now. Because, of course, the rules have been agreed. It is of course also the case that there is budgetary room for manoeuvre under the articles in the Treaty. That's what it says. Rules have been agreed, and then it says "leave room for budgetary manoeuvre." And these are, of course, the political considerations. So let's not pretend that we've just agreed on a precise percentage and that you have to put that one hundred percent past a ruler and then have a result. It's not like that. Of course, we also need to look at what is needed for investment in the economy. There is also room for budgetary manoeuvre. That's what the treaty says. And yes, that calls for political considerations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u212	No, I think this is actually a dangerous argument. Because what Mrs Buitenweg is doing here is actually saying to the European Commission: go ahead. To be honest, there's no room. If you apply the rules, it is of course always possible to take a very precise look at the last tenths of one percent, at the precise timing of measures. There's some room there. But what's going on here? There's a big deviation from what you'd expect. Italy has a public debt of more than 130%. We all know that a country with a government debt above 90% is very likely to have major problems in achieving healthy growth expectations one day. By the way, France has a state debt of 100%, so see how risky it is to suggest even a little, in terms of words and in terms of the spider around it: yes, but we must also be careful that we may not have to stick to France's Stability and Growth Pact in the near future. So this is a real risk. It is not so much the fact that they do or do not, but also the whole reasoning that is put around it. It is not for nothing that Juncker said: France was too big to stick to the Stability and Growth Pact a few years ago. It is not for nothing that we are not doing it again in the Commission around Italy. This is partly because of what France may have to do in the future. So this is really important if you want to have support in the Netherlands for Europe, for the euro. Maybe I can say one last sentence on this, Mr President. Then I'm gonna give you shorter answers, I promise. However, I would like to mention one more point. The ECB has a low interest rate policy. This means that in the Netherlands interest rates on savings are low, but also pension building is complicated because pension interest rates are low. This policy has also been motivated by the extremely worrying situation in Europe in 2012 and the great spread on, among other things, Italian interest rates. All this has to do with the inadequate reform of those economies. So it already has an impact on countries like the Netherlands and Germany, and people know that. We really need to be careful not to give the wrong type of populism a growing ground by being "lenient" in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u213	Finally, Mrs Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u214	Finally, Mr President. I would simply point out that the European Commission has a certain amount of formal scope, and that it is never really a question of really important decisions on growth in a country, on employment, on a social system that you still have to maintain, just reading out the exact percentage and how much that is behind the decimal point. That's what you need to discuss, and that's what you need to do in consultation. I agree that Italy faces major challenges and that we really need to engage in serious discussions with that country. So I'm not thinking too lightly about that. At the same time, I do not think it will help and that we will not move Italy to anything if we only look at those exact figures behind the decimal point, and do not look at how we are going to put that economy in order. And I would remind you that this flexibility gives a political balance, and that it is established in the Treaties.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u215	No. No, he won't give it to me. You always have to take certain circumstances into account, just like a judge does. That's part of what a judge does. But that is not political, but that is the application of the law, the law and the rules, to keep others to the rules of the club as well. And of course, in the last percentage points, you take into account certain specific circumstances. But there is no way in which that can be applied to Italy now. And I find it admirable that Mrs Buitenweg is now in favour of the current Italian Government. They'll know where their friends are.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u216	This is a bit of a lure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u217	That's true, yes. But that's okay for a while, where Mrs Buitenweg and I almost agreed last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u218	I'm sure that's gonna happen in the future once in a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u219	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u220	But I think it's important not to deduce from this that GroenLinks is just in favour of everything plinthing. It's just that I think that economy is also a matter of political choices, and it's not just a matter of accounting. It has a major impact on the population, as well as on employment in Italy. And we should be concerned about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u221	No, no, no, not here, really. I fundamentally disagree. This isn't politics. Those who have to apply the rules may take into account the precise weighting of those rules, in the final percentage points, how they deal with them when it comes to investments, pensions and so on. I understand. If a country is getting out of the excess deficit procedure, I understand very well that the Commission can say, in consultation with such a country: if we do it this way, it is going a little faster. That is not politics, that is sensible application of the rules. It becomes political when you say as a Commission, and Juncker has literally said that France is too big to deal with. That's politics. If Block writes in his Financial Times article that you should not want a political Commission, that is what we mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u222	The Prime Minister is perfectly clear. Italy does not comply in any way with the Stability and Growth Pact. I'll share that. At what point did the Prime Minister take this or form a coalition with more countries to raise this issue within the European Council or to write a letter to the Commission with a number of countries saying "they do not meet; please act'? Or is it just a finding in the Lower House?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u223	I've just explained that completely. I have discussed this several times with the President of the Commission, I will not repeat it, I have just explained it in close consultation with the Minister for Finance, who managed to do so on 21 January at the place where it belongs, the Eurogroup and Ecofin. I think it is very good that the Commission should now come up with a written explanation at the request of the Eurogroup. That is because we have succeeded, because he has succeeded in forming a coalition in the euro group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u224	Phone calls are one thing. That's important. But the moment you fundamentally disagree, you also show that in the decision-making process. The Prime Minister is not there for opinion articles, a Prime Minister is there for decision-making. In December, in the decision-making bodies of the Union, the Commission and the Council, the Council, in which the Prime Minister is present, the Council discussed in detail Italy, for example, formally stated that they did not comply with it and proposed measures? Is that what he's up to?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u225	In December the Council did not discuss Italy in decision-making or any other sense. Two weeks before that, and at the G20 in Argentina, I expressed our views in my phone conversation with Juncker, in close coordination with the Minister of Finance, who laid it down in the decision-making body where it is now being discussed, namely the Eurogroup/Ecofin.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u226	Then I note that it has not been formally laid down and I call on the government to make it formal. If the deviation is so great and the risks are so great, a single telephone call is not enough. May I ask the Prime Minister one question? We have seen that the Italian Government has decided to retire everyone from the public purse from 62 years old if you only have 38 years of retirement, but you can still buy them. That's 40 billion. 40 billion! Do we now run the risk of providing loans or funding for this Italian early retirement within a year, either through the ECB's OMT programme or through ESM emergency aid, and that this will be paid by the Dutch taxpayer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u227	On the first point. Mr Omtzigt may say that he has not heard that this has been raised in the formal place. That's what happened. In close coordination with my Finance Minister, this has also been formally addressed in the relevant Council formations and has led to a coalition in such a way that the Commission is forced to come up with a written explanation. That is the first point Mr Omtzig has made. On the second point. These are, of course, developments that we are also looking at with great care, but he is now three steps further in his reasoning. The Commission, in Mr Omtzigt's reasoning, has maintained the view that they have, while Italy should come forward with further information later this spring and the Commission should come forward with further decisions. He has an interpretation of the early retirement plan in question submitted by Italy and has concluded that the ESM is to be employed on that basis. There's three like-dance in there. I think it is quite right, if we want the Commission to stick to the non-political but factual role in maintaining the Stability and Growth Pact, for my part, not to go along with it in three of Mr Omtzigt's comments and say what we are going to do next.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u228	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u229	On that last point. Italy passed this decree of 40 billion after this budget. So that's still on top of all the shit that's been going on. 40 billion last week. The Italian mathematicians have said: that costs 40 billion. We do not invent it; that is what they do. That's not as-than-quote. The people of Italy stand in line to retire at 62 years. They would do the same in the Netherlands, if they were allowed to. That's what they're lining up for. Italy does not comply with the Stability and Growth Pact. That's what the Prime Minister himself says. The Prime Minister also says: you don't actually get out when you're above 90% of the state debt. Well, they're over 130% there. This means a real chance that they will ask for support from the Union. So the clear question: can the Prime Minister guarantee that Italy will not apply for aid, forcing the Netherlands, either through the ECB or through the emergency funds, to contribute to the Italian early retirement pensions?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u230	I repeat the previous answer. I think Mr Omtzigt and I both have great concerns about Italy. We agree on that. I do not hear him come back to the previous point either, so I seem to have convinced him that this is happening in the relevant places, also in the formal sense and not only in the contacts that exist. So I'm glad. Then he comes up with one measure that I am very concerned about, as I am very concerned about many aspects of Italian budgetary policy. But he also comes up with three as-then reasonings. If I am to be able to hold the Commission to its actual role in the process, I must do so myself; then I must also be on a roll. Mr Omtzigt can afford more as a Member of Parliament on this point. As Prime Minister, I can't do that. I also have to abide by my position and role in that process. He lays down here three as-dan reasonings that result in an application for an emergency program at the ESM. Then we're really three steps ahead. Mr Omtzigt can, I think, guess what we would all think of that, but I am not going to comment on that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u231	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u232	No, Mr. Ommzigt. Come on! You will have the floor, Mrs Leijten, because Mr Van Rooijen has just been here. Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u233	I would like to come back to the interrupting debate that the Prime Minister had with my colleague Buitenweg van GroenLinks. The rules on how to maintain the Stability and Growth Pact are, of course, already political choices, but it cannot be explained that a criminal expedition has started towards Italy, when we have been looking away from France for years. Those are political choices; you are not addressing your friend Macron, but you are going to deal with a government leader who is not one of your political friends. That doesn't look good, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u234	I should like to refer to the Acts, because I think Mrs Leijten and I agree. I have just referred, precisely in order to add my opinion, to the fact that political choices made by the European Commission in these areas are undesirable, to things in the past. See also the article of the Government, of the Minister for Foreign Affairs in the Financial Times. A number of years ago, the European Commission said about France: we cannot tackle them because they are too large. The whole spider that is around Italy's failure to tackle it again, such as 'we are not doing it because of Italy, that is big; oh dear, we may have to go to France in a moment', is extremely damaging to confidence in the euro system. In addition, it is like legislation: the drafting of a law is political; that is correct. How to make the rules of the Stability and Growth Pact is a political choice. I shall now turn to Mr Mulder's question on how we intend to strengthen it further. These are political choices, but once they have been made, the role of the European Commission in the Community system we have is to apply those rules. If there is a deviation, it is never for political reasons, but then it is because it is better on the content, in the spirit of those rules, just like it is, or the same. In Italy, there is no way that space exists.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u235	I just heard the Prime Minister say to Mrs Buitenweg 'no, no, no, the decision to maintain is not political', but he actually indicates that those rules are not enforced in the case of France, because there are political considerations there. Can I ask the Prime Minister why he thought it was necessary to go to Italy at the World Economic Forum in Davos, because they have to abide by the rules, while again keeping quiet about France? Then he should also say: I will now refer to Italy and France in one sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u236	Then we lost each other in a dark forest, because I just said that the European Commission in the case of France a few years ago, when it was quite clear that France should have been dealt with, said: for political reasons, 'too big' was I literally believe that Juncker's statement is not going to do so. At the moment, France is in a different situation. At the moment, we do not think there is any need to put France in the same class as Italy, given that it is below 3% and has taken a number of other measures. Nevertheless, the spider around Italy is: yes, but if France, in the coming period, were to see the yellow cardigan movement and what it may entail in terms of costs, it would again be in a situation where it does not comply with the Stability and Growth Pact rules, it would be too big to tackle. At the moment, our view is that this is happening in Italy. I used France as an example, which was literally said a few years ago: too great to act and then politically and then wrong and then the Commission has no political role.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u237	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u238	A dark forest, in which we never walk, I say to the Prime Minister. But France is now facing a deficit of more than 3%. It was 2.9% and is going to spend extra money to meet the yellow shirts. We know they're gonna do that. I think that's a double measure. That is exactly what happens on the rule of law. As rightly as it may be, we say to Poland and Hungary that they must do something about the rule of law, it is so shocking that we are letting Malta get away with the lack of rule of law. There are all reasons for this. The Foreign Minister does not want to see such a procedure in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u239	And the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u240	You know, that's so arbitrary that it raises resistance. It is not fair to maintain or apply budgetary rules to Italy and France or to the rule of law. You're right to deal with Hungary and Poland, but you're letting Malta get away. It doesn't look good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u241	A little bit of France, though. Mrs Leijten has just outlined France's financial position. Or at least it was the last time the Commission made an assessment of it. We had no reason at that time, given France's macroeconomic figures, to believe that the Commission was wrong to judge them. Mrs Leijten then says that Macron's speech was on television about the 10 billion and says: so they will now go over the 3th. That must prove to be the case. If that were the case, we expect the Commission to take the steps that need to be taken. If not, we shall have the same judgment as we do with Italy. But that too is a matter of step by step and at the right time. The last time this happened to Italy and France, we had no reason to make this comment with France. Here too you should be careful not to say as the Netherlands 'because 10 billion more is going to be spent, this is going to happen', because that is precisely what the Commission is going to do. That is why I do not agree with Omtzigt that there should be some sort of secondopinionrol in the Netherlands. It also takes into account the growth rates of such an economy and other elements. These will have to lead together to determine whether France still complies with the Stability and Growth Pact.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u242	Short question, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u243	Short question. This morning we had the same debate with Minister Hoekstra in the AO Ecofin. He replied to my question about Italy: there were a number of finance ministers with great concerns about Italy's budget; then the Commission took its own decision. He said: then it was mustard for the Finance Ministers after the meal, because they couldn't help it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u244	So it's all well discussed, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u245	My question is: do you think that procedure should change? I asked the Minister if he himself might wish to have a right of representation, so that if the finance ministers find something, they would still have a chance to raise it through the agenda before the Commission takes a decision. 'Cause they're just overplayed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u246	Mr Van Rooijen, I do not want what has been discussed in general terms to be repeated in plenary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u247	That wasn't the point. The thrust of my question was whether the Prime Minister shares the concerns of the Minister of Finance, but also of several in the Chamber, that something must be done so that the Commission does take account of them when the Finance Ministers find something.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u248	The great thing about my cooperation with Mr Van Rooijen is that he is always asking a question that is appropriate to my planned next answer, which was actually intended for Mr Mulder. For Mr Mulder asked whether there should be no more reform around the Stability and Growth Pact. Yes. We believe that this should be done on five elements: reducing flexibility and discretion, simplifying the rules, stricter enforcement of the rules, and, moreover, four elements: increasing predictability in the implementation of the rules. There is possibly also what Mr Van Rooijen hints at. I really want to leave it at that, because it really is in the area of the Minister of Finance. He is, I think, the first move to hold the debate with the Chamber on the further strengthening of the Stability and Growth Pact. This is how we see these reforms in front of us at the headlines.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u249	I have listened to the Prime Minister's answers to a lot of interruptions. I do not really know what the Prime Minister means by a 'political Commission'. What is "political"?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u250	Here is "political" as a Commission itself says, because it is risky to in the case of this subject... The Foreign Minister will be using two other areas in a moment, I think. Outside the euro, there are two other areas in which it is very easy to see how dangerous it is when the Commission becomes political and how bad that is for the smaller Member States and for the approach to the Community Europe. Here is 'political' that the Commission says: the rules say we have to do a, but France is too big, we are not doing it; the rules say we have to do a, maybe we should do it right away with France, we are not doing it now with Italy. That's politics. Because then you are in the process of measuring double standards, which is not in Europe's interest. We have an interest in the fact that the Commission will follow up on such important issues as the rule of law, for example, and there is still a third party that strictly complies with the rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u251	I would like to summarize it as follows: once there is arbitrariness, there is political action. The question is, of course, whether this arbitrariness arises because the European Commission cannot or does not want it, or because Heads of Government force the European Commission to act differently than it might want it to. In the introduction, I heard the Prime Minister say that we are facing a number of very great challenges in Europe: climate, migration, security, strengthening our economy. We cannot face these major challenges if we do not work together at European level. How should a non-political Commission take leadership on these major issues?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u252	The leadership must be taken by the body in Europe that has been appointed to give political direction to the Union, and that is the European Council. This includes the relevance of Council formations, not the European Commission. On the basis of overall political guidance from the European Council, the European Commission has the power to come up with legislative and regulatory initiatives. I am not going to explain the whole of European law here; you know how it works. The Commission has an important role to play in this process, including in its implementation. Of course. Once again, the Minister for Foreign Affairs will soon, on the basis of a few sharp examples, show how dangerous it is if the Commission does not take a tight course, leaving room for arbitrariness, for a more political interpretation of that role, and would say: well, it does not get us out of here. Perhaps it does not come out to us politically in that sense that a certain political colour in the Commission is not appropriate. It is not because the European Council does not agree with the implementation of this regulation. The European Council has not discussed whether or not to impose strict mandates on Italy, now, on the basis of the Stability and Growth Pact, because the Council is not in a position to do so at all. The Commission's move is also the right order, and it must make that move, in part, without throwing itself at a political judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u253	Let us follow this line of the Prime Minister; then let me take the migration crisis as an example. Tens of thousands of refugees from Syria fleeing war and violence are on Europe's borders looking for a safe place. If we leave it to the Council and the Commission to do no part in it, then 28 Heads of State or Government, Ministers, will be looking at each other and there is always one that is not right for Europe to act decisively. So leaving everything at the European Council and turning the European Commission into a technocratic implementing body means that no one takes political leadership unless the Member States come out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u254	But the Commission is not a technocratic implementing body. The European Commission also has the right of initiative, but on the basis of the overall political direction that comes from the European Council. That is how it is regulated in European treaties. Within this overall guidance, the Commission has far-reaching powers to take initiatives, and it must do so, and with that it must also try to untie the debate. But if legislation has taken place, the rules have been agreed, and it is about the application of those agreements - the rule of law, democracy, the euro - and then there is room for such a Commission to say 'here and there', sorry, then you are losing the full support for the functioning of that European Commission. You shouldn't want that. Really.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u255	Finally, Mr. Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u256	Yes, finally, Mr. Chairman. I believe that the Prime Minister and I can find each other in the middle when it comes to implementation and compliance. Of course, there should be no arbitrariness. But if we want the European Union to be able to operate strongly and decisively and take the initiative of the great challenges of today, then we cannot say in a generic sense: the European Commission must not act politically. Because we need political leadership precisely in terms of migration, climate and, above all, in terms of a strong economy and safeguarding our values.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u257	But within the overall direction of the European Council, which lays down the political framework and the political agenda. It is not for nothing that we have a European Council in Sibiu on 9 May where we are talking about the next five years. Following the European elections, the European Council will take the political guidance of the umbrella, the whole umbrella, in which the new European Commission will have to operate over the next five years. In this context, decisions on composition must also be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u258	We are talking about the Commission. But when you see what the Commission is doing... As the Prime Minister said, they make own-initiative laws, they review budgets, and if countries do not comply with the rules, then there is also enforcement. But shouldn't you be splitting up those functions? Because the problem lies in the combination of all these tasks with the Commission, isn't it? If you remove the enforcement task, you will have an independent institution in Europe that simply says: you do not comply with the rules, ready! Then you took it out of the political sphere.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u259	The letter of September 11th 2011 from the first cabinet I was allowed to chair was about that. It was about how, similar to the position of the Commissioner for Competition, we would also have a Commissioner for budgetary enforcement. At that time, in October 2011, we managed to get a whole part of that thought anchored in the agreements, also in the context of the two-pack and the six-pack and everything around it, which then happened in 2/12. Not everything is anchored in those agreements, but we have come a long way. Anyway, you make compromises. It actually went well when Olli Rehn was sitting there. At this European Commission you see something else. I very much welcome what the European Commission is doing in terms of focusing on Europe's tasks. They do a lot of good work. However, I must honestly say that they do not do so when it comes to complying with the Stability and Growth Pact agreements, for example with Italy. I'm very critical about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u260	This also applies to competition, which was just when Mrs De Lange was interrupting when it came to Siemens and whether it should merge or not. Then it's simple, isn't it? Then you've got an independent supervisor who's gonna see if that's okay. And if you want to give the law and rules, you do it somewhere else. But you don't do that in one hand. Then it's pure, isn't it? Then we're out of a lot of problems and discussions, aren't we? If the Prime Minister wants to make a commitment to a new Commission, it will help greatly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u261	This is how the Netherlands has looked at this for years: to do it impartially and firewalled as much as possible. That was our whole idea in our 2011 letter: the Commissioner for the enforcement of the Stability and Growth Pact would be given a similar position to the position in which the Danish Commissioner for Competition is now operating. That didn't quite work out at the time. That is what you see in this Commission too. But we will continue to argue for that. I do not expect major breakthroughs to be expected in the short term, because of course the interests in Europe are not exactly centrifugal there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u262	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u263	One more question, Mr President, and then, as far as I am concerned, we will go to Mr Blok, the Minister for Foreign Affairs. There was a question about tax evasion. I actually agree with Mr Tang on this point: this tax fraud is undesirable. That is also a reason why the previous cabinet and this cabinet too want to deal with this. This has led, among other things, to the atmosphere in which we have been operating widely in the Chamber in recent years, that Menno Snel, the Secretary of State, announced in early 2018 a number of measures to tackle tax evasion in this area. By the way, it is also important to tackle tax avoidance, because that is just as important, not just as important, but also important, but certainly also to tackle tax evasion. These measures shall, inter alia, ensure greater transparency, integrity and administrative cooperation. Also in the field of value added tax, VAT, the Netherlands is constructive in Europe to tackle fraud. This is seen, for example, in the exchange of payment data, so that risks can be identified. And we intend to continue on this track, also encouraged by you. That answers my questions, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u264	Mrs Buitenweg, has there been a question left?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u265	Sure. Nor would I have hoped that the Prime Minister would make such a huge point of emphasis on my point. Because the most important point I have made is that the Prime Minister is full of the organ when it comes to Italy and the euro, when it comes to the pennies, but he is remarkably silent when it comes to the rule of law. He has just had a whole discussion about Italy in the House of Representatives and said: no, no, no! What do we hear about Italy? That the Secretary of State can fix it up. But this too is chefsache. I want the Netherlands to have leadership, namely on this point of the rule of law and on the point that the Article 7 procedure has begun, partly on the basis of my colleague Sargentini's report. And now I see you just running away! This is one of the most important points!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u266	No, I'm not going anywhere. What do you want to know?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u267	What I want to know is why you don't think the rule of law is as important as the money. Why are you being very hard on a stricter policy towards the euro and are you remarkably silent on the rule of law?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u268	I could use an ugly word right now, 'cause this is real bullshit. What do you base that on? We have a division of roles. We are sitting here with two rulers, because the Chamber has asked for both of us. We therefore make a division of tasks between ourselves. How's that going? We could have divided it differently. For the same reason, Mr Blok had done EMU here and I had dealt with the rule of law, but you have to divide it up. So now he's got that pile; I don't have that pile right now. But you don't have to worry about it at all. For me, Europe, apart from the market, is also the shift in my thinking, as well as security, not as in a European army, but as in cooperation. If you work together and are embedded in a strong Union, it offers security. That's also a value community. This value community is, of course, inconceivable at its core if countries do not comply with the common agreements. I had talks in September when we had to suspend the General Reviews for the summit in Salzburg. I have had intrusive discussions with Orbán there, and on the margins of that summit, as a result of what happened to your partymate in the European Parliament and what happened to Guy Verhofstadt in Hungary. I find that scandalous and unacceptable, and I told him that. That is one example, along with so many other examples. This is extremely important to me, because a strong union, a strong European Union, cannot exist unless all three points go well at the same time, i.e. the rule of law, as well as a strong currency and market, as well as the embedding in a large security structure through cooperation. So please don't jump to any conclusions because we did that division of roles, because it might as well have been the other way around. There's no deeper meaning behind that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u269	I don't believe that. I do not know exactly who it was outsourced to in Davos, who, besides Prime Minister Rutte, would have said anything about the rule of law elsewhere. This is what this is about. I have no doubt that the Prime Minister is making an effort and is in talks with the Hungarian Prime Minister. I don't doubt that. I know that he also spoke there about my colleague Sargentini. I thank him for that. But it's not just about having a conversation somewhere in the back rooms, although that's also very important, but it's also about taking a public stand. I can see that the Netherlands does do that to Italy and that has just impact. That's a leadership that makes it clear what the Prime Minister's moving. I want it to be clear that the rule of law is as close to his heart as the euro. You can't see that out there. Then the Prime Minister can do his best in all kinds of conversations, but he has to show that much more.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u270	I meant in the past tense that I do. If you think that's not enough, I'm going to reflect on whether I should take the stage in more places for that. I think I do, so I'm gonna go over that for myself. I have, of course, made my speeches in Berlin and Strasbourg. Next week I will make another speech on Europe and the world in the context of the Churchill lecture in Zurich. Let me reflect on that for a second. But you really have no doubt, I tell Mrs Buitenweg, that this is as important to me as a strong currency.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u271	We are together now, you are here to reflect, so perhaps this is a good time to say that things like bullying universities, restricting freedom of expression and taking measures that are in the way of NGOs are all directly contrary to European values and that they are therefore unacceptable to the Netherlands and the Dutch Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u272	So it is, and the whole policy of this government is to say that not only inside, but outside. May I add that I very much appreciate the role of the Commissioner for the Netherlands, Frans Timmermans, in this respect? I appreciate how he is fully behind us here, in the Commission, but also from the Commission in the European Parliament, with all his rhetorical powers. I would have liked to have said the same thing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u273	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u274	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before I go into the major European policy and all the questions that have been asked about it, I would first like to congratulate Mr Bishop on the granddaughter. Of course, I would like to congratulate the Bishops on their contribution to the enlargement of the European Union. I will reply in a number of chapters, the first of which is not entirely coincidentally the rule of law. Next comes the role of the Commission. I will also mention the FT article. I understand the FT flew out of the kiosk yesterday. Then I will deal with the Common Foreign and Security Policy. Then I go into the questions about the Brexit and finally there is a multitude of different topics. First of all, the rule of law. Indeed, not for nothing on top of the pile, because I feel it deeply, and that is true of the whole cabinet that a European Union can and should function only if we do not allow room for the rule of law. This is part of our values, but it is also so essential for everything that Europe should stand for. I call it being able to travel freely, where you also hear that you can rely on the same rules. I call it free business. That means you have to be able to assume that contracts are being fulfilled anywhere. I'd like to mention that you can go to a judge who gives a fair judgment. I refer to cooperation in the fight against crime or terrorism. Indeed, we see that Dutch judges also question the functioning of the Polish rule of law. So this is a large number of examples that illustrate the importance of maintaining the rule of law in every Member of the European Union. This also means that wherever that can be mentioned, I myself and colleagues will raise it. This is happening in European Councils and in bilateral talks. During the time I was allowed to be Minister of Security and Justice, I already went to Hungary and raised this issue. I have been in Poland and Romania recently. I'm going to Hungary and Malta soon. I am also talking to colleagues from other countries about how we can move together, because this is too important for us to fall into decline. This raises first of all Mr Mulder's question as to whether the Polish cabinet is going to address the concerns about the rule of law. We are indeed doing so, both in the bilateral relationship and through the Article 7 procedure, in which the Commission plays a good role, and I share the compliments that have been expressed for Commissioner Timmermans here, but we also see how difficult it is to make concrete progress there. Mr Mulder also asked me to address the situation in Hungary, and specifically to not want to receive a delegation from this Parliament from the Hungarian Parliament. I spoke to my Hungarian colleague yesterday. We were both in Washington for the anti-ISIS coalition conference. I went after him myself and said that I really do not think this is a way for Members of the European Union to deal with each other, not at parliament level and not at government level. We're gonna discuss this with each other when I get there in March. But, yes, that's not how we're supposed to be seeing each other. If we disagree, we should look each other up as parliaments and as governments and discuss this with each other. That message has been conveyed loudly and clearly. Mr Jetten spoke about the desirability of fundamental rights. He responded to the proposal made by Mrs In 't Veld in the European Parliament. Mrs Van der Graaf has previously tabled a motion, which I think was last year in this debate on a rule-of-law procedure. The government has chosen to choose the route of Mrs. Van der Graaf's motion. There is an initiative with which Belgium has been the first to launch a peer review, i.e. a peer review, on the quality of the rule of law, in the Netherlands, Germany and other countries. We have not yet achieved unanimity in this respect. Of course, we want all countries to participate. We are also in close contact with the European Commission, because you also do not want it to be a kind of escape from an Article 7 procedure or infringement procedure. It is our full commitment to this instrument to review the rule of law, too, long before a country comes close to Article 7 or an infringement procedure, and to put each other along the measuring bar along this route. We also want the Netherlands to participate in this. We are committed to this with unabated energy. Mr Jetten commented on the situation in Hungary and asked whether this would be further discussed. In this case, the European Parliament has taken the initiative for the Article 7 procedure. The Netherlands and a number of other countries have argued that this should be taken over by the European Council. There is no majority for that at the moment. However, we have organised a separate meeting with a number of countries with Mrs Sargentini, prior to a European Council, to discuss her report, which indeed describes a large number of worrying situations. The cabinet's commitment is to organise a hearing with Hungary in the short term, because of course a procedure of hearing and hearing is appropriate. We need a majority of the Member States. Without that majority, we cannot take the next step, but we will continue to do so and will certainly not be alone in doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u275	May I ask how far away we are from the majority?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u276	I cannot indicate it precisely in numbers, because not all countries, so to speak, indicate whether they are in favour or against. But we're not close enough. I can report that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u277	Are you saying that at the moment a majority of the Member States of the European Union are not ready to hold a hearing on Hungary and not even to talk about the problems in Hungary?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u278	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u279	Have you ever considered that as a problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u280	Yes, we've talked about that extensively. So that first resulted in the separate conversation we had. Then we said with a number of countries: we believe that this should be followed up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u281	Big words have just been used about Hungary, both by the Prime Minister and by the Minister. Then you talked about a procedure of hearing and hearing again. But does that make any sense, or have you just finished your judgment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u282	If that were the case, of course we wouldn't apply hearing again and again. On behalf of the European Parliament, Mrs Sargentini has sent a report with worrying observations. This also comes in addition to a number of ongoing infringement proceedings. On the contrary, I think it is very important for Hungary itself to be able to give its own view on this issue. That also fits in with what I just outlined. Even if you are concerned about what is happening in another country, you have to go there and put clearly on the table what those concerns are about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u283	Only, that whole hearing and rehearsal now sounds more like a show for the stage, considering the words that have just been used. That was actually my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u284	I'm not gonna spend time on shows for the stage. On the contrary, I would like us to go through this procedure properly and carefully and to be able to remove the concerns, either because they are refuted, or because there are changes in rules or procedures.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u285	I was just outside the Chamber for a moment, but I was told that the Minister spoke about the implementation of my motion on the peer review mechanism. That's the route we're working on right now. I'm very pleased to hear that. I'm just wondering a few things. When can we really see something concrete coming out of that? Can the Minister outline a timeline? We also know that the European Commission intends to come forward with proposals on strengthening the rule of law in Europe before the summer and to consider a number of mechanisms in that context. Does the Minister have any idea how this mechanism could fit in with that? Is that additional? In other words, is the Minister aware of the European Commission's plans?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u286	As far as the latter is concerned, we are in close contact with the European Commission, because I also outlined just now that we do not want the peer review mechanism to become a kind of escape route for either the Article 7 procedure or an infringement procedure. A timeline. It is about getting other countries along, and that is not to be taken in a timeline. That is a question of continuing to discuss and a combination of pressure, temptation and persuasiveness, which I hope will happen quickly, but I cannot guarantee.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u287	Clear. Indeed, the intention is not to create an escape route for Article 7, but it is very important that Member States are talking about the rule of law. But let me return to my first question about the European Commission's plans, because the Minister did not go into that entirely. Is the Minister aware of the plans that the European Commission is currently developing? That's, I think, the first question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u288	Basically. I don't know the plans until they're published. However, I have deliberately sought consultation with Commissioner Timmermans in this case in order to prevent European Commission measures from biting the peer review.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u289	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u290	Then I would just like to wish the Cabinet a great deal of enthusiasm and conviction in bringing other Member States along, because I really think that this is a very important added value.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u291	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u292	I'm certainly not against peer review either. I am only afraid of the day when Poland and Hungary, or Hungary and Malta are allowed to judge each other. So I think you need more tools in the toolbox, and the fundamental rights challenge, as approved by the European Parliament, is not only a very good input for such a peer review, but also for the argumentation for an Article 7 procedure, you would like to start it. My question to the Minister would be: does he agree with me that, in addition to the peer review, this fundamental rights issue would be a good addition to the toolbox?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u293	We have also had discussions about this. We actually find that we find less enthusiasm among Member States for what I call 'an independent rule of law measure'; I probably do Mrs In 't Veld wrong when I put it that way. We find a little more enthusiasm for a peer review mechanism and then we do not want to let the better be the enemy of good, because achieving sufficient support is already such a complicated task.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u294	I understand that balance on the one hand, because you are trying to get a step further in this whole constitutional debate within the EU. At the same time, I understand that countries opt for peer review, because such a fundamental right is simply a checklist that comes out of judgment at some point. That could hurt a lot for a number of countries. My appeal to the cabinet would nevertheless be to look with all diplomacy for support for this fundamental rights problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u295	Really in the right order. With all the enthusiasm and commitment I have heard from Mrs Van der Graaf, I am committed to the most promising route at the moment; that is difficult enough. Of course, it gets very confusing when I go with two messages. I realize I'm disappointing Mrs. In 't Veld with this, but I'd better be open about what the Dutch commitment is now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u296	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u297	I shall come back to that in the second term, because I would also like to ask a question about Hungary's hearing in the context of the Article 7 procedure. I understand that 16 of the 28 Member States are already ready to hold that hearing. I think you need four fifths of the countries to actually start it. Can the Minister tell us which countries are still blocking this hearing with Hungary?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u298	I am often asked to mention countries, but I really don't think it fits in with the discussions I have with other countries, that I'm going to tell them what they think. I really think they should.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u299	I find the answer I just heard from the Foreign Minister to Mr Jetten's question a little crazy. He said: I cannot go on the road with two possibilities for that important maintenance of the rule of law. I think we can do that. We think it is important that there is some kind of test, a peer review or a well-functioning article 7 procedure, and there are several flavors from which you can choose. Doesn't that make your story stronger? If you don't want one, you might want the other. Or am I wrong about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u300	Such discussions have also taken place, and the outcome is that the sharper instrument, Mr Jetten, said that the support proposed by Mrs In 't Veld is less than the peer review mechanism, which is not yet sufficiently supported. So it makes sense that we should first focus on the more feasible instrument. It's complicated, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u301	At the risk of both of them not getting there in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u302	I can never rule that out, but the risk that it won't happen is the biggest one in Mrs. In 't Veld's instrument. There's just the least support for that. The peer review mechanism, there is more perspective in that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u303	It seems to me so crazy: when it comes to the internal market or to getting subsidies from all kinds of funds, there is direct unity and then the interests of companies are really served. But here we are talking about human rights, about access to justice, about helping someone else, about organizing it. So it is about the interests of people, and then suddenly it is so very difficult in that European Council or between those countries! Do you not understand that this is also very undermining for what the European Union is at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u304	I started with that, but the suggestion that it would be so much easier to achieve majorities in the area of the internal market would be: if only.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u305	No one will say it's easy, but we agree on how important it is. I would like to add my voice to Mr Jetten's plea. I believe that, given the violations of Europe's values, it is very important that the Netherlands should take a leading role in this too, with the other countries that consider it important. I know that there is a lot of work going on, but I would strongly endorse the plea and I would like to add a question to that. We now see that the Commission is proposing to impose these financial sanctions only if the erosion of values would lead to financial maladministration. While this could be a very powerful instrument, perhaps even more powerful than Article 7, apk and the peer review. So I would actually like to make Mr Blok's basket even fuller and I would like to call on him to take the lead in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u306	We are doing the same, because in our priority for the new European budget, the MFF, you see as one of our objectives that the quality of the rule of law will also count for the right to European funds. If you can actually use the financial instrument, Mr Asscher is right to point that out, then you also have an effective instrument. We are also forming a coalition for this. There is, of course, opposition to this. There is also some overlap between countries that receive a lot of money and apparently have concerns about the rule of law, but it is not for nothing one of the instruments that we want in that MFF.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u307	I am pleased with that, and I conclude from that that the Commission has not yet reached this stage in its efforts. Finally, Mr Jetten's plea. I hope he will come back to that in the second term, and I will be very supportive of that. It is not the intention of the cabinet, but I think it is good to agree that the cabinet is full of the maximum results, and in this case it should in fact be both instruments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u308	I do not share the assessment that going out with two messages leads to more success, but at least we share the ambition to make progress here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u309	I have a small question, namely whether the Minister is prepared to have his officials checked so that he can come back to it in the second term, how many countries are actually in favour or against holding a hearing. I have information here which says that 16 countries are now in favour of speeding up. I don't know if that's true. It is the information I find here. That is said by three EU diplomats, so it might be a good idea to check what is going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u310	Yeah, I'll check that out, 'cause if the majority is there, we'll both have a good day. Mr Omtzig addressed the issue of transparency, which indeed affects the rule of law. Next week we will have a wide-ranging discussion on this. Also there, Chamber and Cabinet draw at the same end of the rope. We both think it is very important that there should be greater transparency. That is also an ingredient of the Financial Times article that has been discussed a lot. As far as I am concerned, the proposal made by the Council secretariat is a very sensible, well-developed first step. Again, as is the case with all the subjects we are discussing today, we need sufficient support for this. That is what I and my fellow Members are going along with, and I am glad to see more and more supporters of it. So we're gonna keep pulling it. Following the discussion with Commissioner Timmermans, Mr Van Rooijen asked whether we would also place our hopes on the role of civil society in Hungary and Poland when it comes to meeting all the standards of the rule of law. I very much agree that the internal debate in a country and the role of civil society organisations or political parties in it are very important. Such organisations are, of course, supported when the European Commission and the other countries, members, of the European Union also show loud and clear their concerns. Then you can strengthen each other. But the best part is indeed when the change comes from within. Then it's actually worn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u311	A brief question, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u312	On Tuesday, Mr Timmermans added the suggestion that Article 7 should be reviewed within the Council and that the Commission and the European Parliament should be involved. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u313	I'll share that. Mr Timmermans has, of course, had a long experience of the procedures relating to Article 7 relating to Poland. It is the first time that this procedure has entered into force so extensively. It is therefore wise to consider whether this should lead to adjustments in the way we apply them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u314	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u315	Then I come to the questions that have been asked about the role of the Commission and the document of opinion. For me, for the cabinet, it is very important that the Commission plays an objective, non-political role. The Prime Minister has already explained this in detail on the basis of the finances. But I would like to start by saying that this is actually a very traditional Dutch position, because it is in fact traditionally the interest of the smaller Member States to maintain the rules by a strong Commission, not to be manned by larger Member States. So this position should not even be new. Unfortunately, over the last few years, the present Commission has also done many good things, in a number of cases, to note that the Commission's monitoring role has been handled in a political way. The Prime Minister has already addressed the Stability and Growth Pact in detail. I would just like to add that the first infringement of the Stability and Growth Pact in 2003 was France and Germany. That was precisely the scenario that the Netherlands had been trying to avoid from the outset, namely that when the rules were not enforced by the Commission a number of large countries could make an agreement between themselves that would call into question the value of the rules. Unfortunately, that nightmare scenario came true after all. It is therefore very traditional and very much in the Dutch interest, but also, in fact, constitutionally, that we expect the Commission, the executive in the European trias politicians, to maintain rules agreed in an independent, non-political manner. In addition to the Stability and Growth Pact, we also have concerns about the Commission's handling of the admission to Schengen of Romania and Bulgaria. The cabinet has also indicated earlier that it is very important for corruption to be dealt with thoroughly there. A separate coordination and verification mechanism has been introduced. Not so long ago, the President of the Commission, in fact, gave the Netherlands a blow, because we actually said: will we comply with the agreements? When it comes to new entrants, the Netherlands, the cabinet, always has a clear line. If countries prove to meet the criteria and have a track record on them, they can of course start the accession procedure or, once they are candidates, chapters can be closed. But it is if the criteria are met. There, too, we note that there is a political pressure from the Commission to allow countries, although we can actually see that this progress has not yet been made. Even when it comes to the internal market, which is one of the key areas of European cooperation, we note that important agreements are being made, but there are real concerns about the ways in which large countries implement them, especially when it comes to the Services Directive, for example. It is then up to the European Commission to address such a country and start infringement proceedings. This is really in the interests of the Netherlands, but also in the interests of the functioning of that joint project that is the European Commission. Mr Jetten himself mentioned it in his contribution, Hungary. We've just talked about it in detail. I'm kind of in the middle. I believe that the Commission has demonstrated to Hungary how concerned it is with the rule of law by starting a number of intergroup procedures. But indeed, the Commission has not started an Article 7 procedure. That's a political operation, isn't it? It is therefore really in the Dutch interest and in the interest of the functioning of the European Union that we maintain that traditional Dutch line that the European Commission, the executive, is the guardian of the treaties and that this should be done in a non-political way. Another part of the article is spitzencandidates process. There was a spitzen candidate present, but he is now campaigning. Here too, it is about keeping to the commitments made. The European Treaty says that a candidate is proposed by the Commission, or no, should be approved by the Council and then by the European Parliament. The procedure that has now been chosen is that the European Parliament first makes a very short list and then says with the treaty in hand: you know that it can only be someone we approve, so it must be someone on this list. This is contrary to the Treaty, but you will also have a political connection between Parliament and the Commission, which again does not fit in with the independent role of the Commission which I have just emphasised. That's why we don't think this is a proper process.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u316	Let me see if the Minister has answered all the questions relating to the role of the Commission.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u317	Well, no, not by a long shot. Or what, a long time? There's a few more.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u318	I would suggest that he finish, because this subject remains.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u319	It was about the spitzen candidate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u320	Yeah, you can come back to that in no time. I suggest you answer the remaining questions, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u321	On this subject, Mr Bishop asked how I dealt with the motion he tabled last year during this discussion. It was about the political role of the Commission. It seems to me that he has been served with the cabinet's point of view. Mr Mulder asked what we think about better separation of functions within the European Commission or in the Commission's executive machinery. That is indeed one of the ways in which the cabinet believes that we should give substance to a non-politically objective Commission. I am thinking of the way in the Netherlands, for example, forecasts are made by the Central Planning Bureau, whose independence is respected by everyone, and the cabinet, political parties or others on the basis of these forecasts and who make their decisions. We would also very much like to see such a system with an independent tester alongside the Commissioner. In fact, when it comes to implementing agreements on the internal market, you could also have a similar objective tester, in addition to the European Commission's executive machinery. That is the way forward, as far as we are concerned. Mr. Chairman. This brings me to the end of the chapter on the role of the Commission.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u322	Yes. Mrs. Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u323	Thank you. The Minister says that the European Parliament will then have the option of agreeing to one of the candidates proposed by the Council. That's not what the treaty says. The treaty uses the word "choose," in English "elect." The European Parliament elects the President of the European Commission. And, of course, that's a strange figure. Indeed, someone is nominated by the Council and then elected by the European Parliament. And that is typically something that has to do with politics, with the growth of an institution. It is an ambiguous figure to use the word "elect." But I see exactly what the Minister is doing here. It is precisely this political potential that he removes and he says: no, rules are rules and Parliament can only agree after we have proposed. That's not what it says. It states that, taking into account the results of the European Parliament, a nomination shall be made by the Council and shall elect the European Parliament. I would also like the Minister to understand that there is a political potential in that, and that he would also like to do justice to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u324	That I should like to hear from GroenLinks, who likes to stand up for the rule of law, that we should choose here a flexible interpretation of a treaty. If we want something else, we have to change the treaty. That would not be my proposal, but the Treaty says: the European Council is proposing that candidate. And indeed: then elects the European Parliament. But the nomination comes from the European Council. And that presentation is extremely limited by this beautiful spitzen candidate procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u325	Mrs. Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u326	Well, that sucks and that's politics. That is a political dynamic. Who's always been there. The European Parliament once voted on the President of the European Commission before it was even voted on. That is the dynamic that arises because we are trying to make the whole process of European integration not only a kind of administrative quantity, but something that is also subject to political control. That's what's going on right now. And it does say "elects." Of course, the Council can propose something, but ultimately the Council has something to do with whether it is also adopted by the European Parliament. That's the situation. I just want to say that the Minister also misread the treaty. That's why I say it says "elects." It says, "choose." And I think that has a greater meaning that the people who made the treaty also wanted to put into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u327	President: choose from the nomination. Earlier, I was able to indicate a whole list of points where I regret to say that this Commission, led by a spitzen candidate, did not act as guardian of the rules. The Commission has also done good things, but it has not acted as a guardian of the rules. This also leads to fierce interruptions by Mr Omtzitz and others on how the Stability and Growth Pact is applied. This is not in the interests of the proper functioning of the European Union and it is not in the interests of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u328	A couple of causal connections are now being established that will greatly increase Mrs. In 't Veld's blood pressure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u329	Breathe slowly, Mrs. In 't Veld.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u330	And she's not allowed to interrupt either. That seems so hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u331	In my view, Mrs Buitenweg has explained very clearly how Article 17 (7) of the Treaty is intended, and that the procedure with the candidate for a seat, after a nomination by the European Parliament, all fits neatly within the Treaty. But the Minister just said, "Well, the way things have gone down, I don't think it's quite right to fit into the rules of the treaty. I don't remember what exact words he used, but with that he gives them a different name than with the word "state grip" in the article. I now hear the Minister's nuanced response, although it is an answer I do not agree with. But is the Minister prepared to take back the word "state grip" and say here that he does not agree with it? Is he prepared to stop using the word "state grip" in this context?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u332	No. This is due to the poetic freedom that fits with an opinion piece. It is only recently that I have been extensively accused of a coup when I had to submit a very factual Brexit law, which fortunately received broad support in the Chamber. But the word "state grip" often falls here, fortunately without the colonels marching in.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u333	There is, in my view, a difference with Members of Parliament, who do indeed grant themselves the poetic freedom to use such heavy words. You wrote this article as Minister of Foreign Affairs. I just heard the Prime Minister say that this whole paper of opinion is the cabinet line. So is it the cabinet line of this cabinet that you are talking about a coup d'état in the process around the spitzen candidate?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u334	I have just indicated that I think it fits into the poetic freedoms of an opinion document which is applied as an article of the European Treaty in this way, as this term is used for this purpose.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u335	Finally. I think it is an extremely inappropriate choice of words. We are talking about a coup d'état when people are trying to overthrow democratic governments by force. It has nothing to do with a process in which the European Parliament takes its role in determining who will be the President of the European Commission. This is a much more democratic process than we had before, because all European citizens know who the potential candidates are to become that president. Much better than the backrooms we had before and the presidents who came out without any transparency!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u336	I do not think we are entirely agreed on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u337	I give everyone all the poetic freedoms. There are all kinds of possibilities for that; you can keep an album for it. But if you put a piece in the Financial Times on behalf of the government, not the most poetic newspaper we know, it's not convenient. My friendly advice would be to take the floor back, because we are now getting the situation that we do not know what the cabinet thinks and what the coalition thinks. Then we'll have to ask the Chamber for a ruling. I don't think that's necessary at all. Take that back. Of course, it was a serious exaggeration. You can have a discussion about the interpretation of the Treaty, but if a foreign minister, on request, does not take back the word'state grip' he used, that seems to me to be very problematic.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u338	I'm going to stand up for the Financial Times first, because it was just called a newspaper where poetic freedoms would have no place. I would like to highly recommend the cultural annex that sits every Saturday at the Financial Times. Then you wouldn't have said something like that. I believe, once again, that this choice of words is part of poetic freedoms which can be used in an opinion document.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u339	No one wants to dispute your freedom to sometimes have a poetic moment. In fact, I like Minister Blok best when he's being a little poetic. But this is a political debate that has far-reaching implications. Because in fact, on behalf of the coalition, you show the Dutch electorate that you consider it a coup d'état. It can't be. That's not it, that's not it, you shouldn't do it on behalf of the cabinet, so you should take it back.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u340	I'm sticking to what I said about it. Then I come to the questions that have been asked about the common foreign and security policy. Mr Mulder asked to comment on the possible arrival of a European Defence Commissioner. It has already been regularly shared with the Chamber that the cabinet is in favour of enhanced European defence cooperation, but in addition to and not with NATO, which remains the main defender of our freedom. But there are many areas, ranging from research and development to joint peace initiatives around Europe's borders, where Europe can play a role. This has also happened in the past, for example antipiracy missions. I cannot, of course, speculate on exactly what tasks will be assigned to Commissioners in a new Commission, because that is what the new President will be discussing in the near future. But defence cooperation in the way we've outlined has our support. Mrs Buitenweg asked to address the European strategy towards China. GroenLinks has just presented a China strategy, which I have not yet been able to take. But I very much appreciate that this initiative is being taken. The cabinet itself will come up with that. It is absolutely true that the European Union has taken good initiatives in this area. Last week in Bucharest, we had an informal Foreign Affairs Council where China was extensively on the table and where there was also a good analysis of both the opportunities and the threats posed by China's rise. We have also agreed that we will continue to raise this issue regularly, because it is partly a national area. The cabinet therefore comes in May with a more comprehensive view on this. Your question was, I believe, when that vision would come. But that is clearly also embedded in a European context.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u341	Let's get back to defense. I was talking about a possible Defense Commissioner. I believe that the cabinet is also seeing this problem coming, because there is a rather cryptic phrase about cooperation in the state of the Union. I am curious to see what is meant by the sentence I am now reading: 'In this context, the Cabinet considers it important to consider how best to implement a forward-looking agenda for security and defence in Europe, both politically and institutionally.' What's this all about?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u342	This is precisely my line that NATO is and remains the most important guarantee of our security, but at the same time it is logical that European countries and the European Union play a major role in this. That is because, on the one hand, we are missing real opportunities because of the fragmentation of the defence industry and of procurement by European military forces. The Netherlands has a number of good examples of cooperation with neighbouring countries, but there is still a great deal to be done. There are really a large number of areas where progress can be made within the European Union, for example in the transport of military equipment within the European Union, an area where Mr Bijleveld plays a leading role. That is crucial. It hasn't been structuralally thought about for too long. But it may also be that the European Union, in the complicated and unsafe world in which we live, should act with a peace-keeping operation or perhaps even a little higher in the spectrum of violence, where, by the way, national states always continue to decide whether their men and women can be deployed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u343	There are people, even here this afternoon, who say: we must go to a European army. Before you know it, it's going that way again. Then how do you stop that institutionally?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u344	By not taking that step, because it is not real to let Europe defend itself from NATO. In any case, it is wise to have an alliance across the Atlantic, with other democratic countries. What is more, the European Union's defence expenditure without the United States and without Britain, which is likely to leave us, is 20% of NATO expenditure. It is, of course, unrealistic to expect that with 20% of expenditure you can defend yourself as well as with 100% of expenditure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u345	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u346	Mr Omtzigt asked me to discuss the future of the relationship between the European Union and Turkey. Mr Omtzigt knows that the cabinet is concerned about a large number of developments in Turkey, including, not least, the rule of law, but also, for example, how journalists are dealt with and other human rights issues. These concerns are shared, including by the Commission. Therefore, in the progress report of the past year, the Commission states that Turkey has moved further away from the European Union and that this trend must also be reversed. In fact, therefore, the accession negotiations have been suspended for a long time and we await the Commission's new progress report in the coming year. Mr Bishop asked me to deal with the relationship with the United States. I've just gone into the relationship in NATO. Of course, the United States is also a major trading partner. We regret the way in which tariffs have been used. That's in the best interest of neither of us. We are therefore fully committed to consultation in order to get the tariffs off the table and to intensify trade between us. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the questions about the Brexit, which we discussed in detail last week.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u347	Before you continue, there is a question from Mrs Maeijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u348	I was waiting for the right of veto under the Common Foreign and Security Policy. I read in the State of the Union that the cabinet agrees with the Commission's proposal to abolish the right of veto in certain areas. I think that's a really bad idea. Can the Minister give a list of areas in which decisions would be taken by unanimity and which parts by qualified majority? The list in this document begins with "among others." I don't know if it's exhausting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u349	We've talked about that before. At that time, I indicated that this is what the Netherlands could imagine when imposing sanctions. Think of the human rights sanctions instrumentarium, in which I try to achieve European unanimity. We note that it is not so difficult to separate one European country from the agreement reached by other countries. Thus, for example, in applying such sanctions instruments, it would be obvious to drop the unanimity requirement. Another example is when the European Union as a whole takes a position on human rights, for example, in an international organisation. I also indicated in that debate that I do not expect this to be taken quickly because there is a need for unanimity. I think that some countries will want to stop this for exactly the same reason as the cabinet is open to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u350	The State of the Union also mentions civilian missions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u351	Yeah, that's the third one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u352	Are those the three sub-areas?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u353	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u354	This is an exhaustive list?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u355	Yeah, yeah. Mr Van Rooijen asked what I expected from the discussions today. I have only been able to see a first report on this from the press very quickly. In any case, I know that both sides are committed to finding a solution which can count on broad support in the House of Commons, but which at the same time respects the instructions of the European Council. Both the Prime Minister and I have repeatedly indicated that we do not really see any room to amend the Treaty of Accession, which may allow the political declaration to add elements to it, but that it is particularly important that the British side clearly indicate what they want to agree to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u356	There was a rumor this morning... I thought from the corner of the Daily Telegraph... that the Prime Minister might ask for a reprieve. Has there been any mention of this, for example, of whether it has been discussed at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u357	No, I don't have any hard confirmation of that. No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u358	Okay. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u359	Mrs Maeijer also asked me to comment on Mr Tusk's statement on 'the special place in hell'. Yes, of course, that doesn't help when the negotiations are already so complicated. Questions were also asked about the extension, a point made by Mr Van Rooijen, by the SP and the Christian Union. I also said last week that the government itself is in a constructive position, but that this really only makes sense if it is clearly indicated by the British side what exactly this extension is going to do. Mr Omtzig referred once again to a number of measures in preparation for a no-dealbrexit. He asked, among other things, why the report on the simulation in Rotterdam dates from December and has now been sent. That is because, on the basis of that report, a whole series of discussions and thinking exercises were then held with all the parties involved. There hasn't been idle ever since. Mr Omtzig asked when he would reply to his motion on driving licences. That comes to the Chamber in the week of February 11th. With regard to medicinal products, Mr Omtzigt asked for access to the list. The Chamber has a short-term meeting with Minister Bruins on this matter. In fact, right now! That seems to me to be the logical place to ask that question. Someone else from the CDA will undoubtedly be represented there. Then there is Mr Omtzig's motion for a resolution on the veterinary inspection posts. Mr Schouten's ministry and the NVWA have, in fact also at the moment, held consultations with interested market parties in order to arrive at a rapid establishment of a benchmark. So that too is being worked hard at the moment, yet again with respect for the responsibilities of both sides. In the end, it is up to the market players to implement this. That's about the questions about the Brexit. Then I come to the questions on several remaining issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u360	Mr. Ommzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u361	Yes, Mr. Chairman. That's me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u362	Wow, that's really lame. That's really lame.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u363	It is good that there has not been idle in the port of Rotterdam. They can't do that very well in Rotterdam, for two months. So that's what I'm assuming. For weeks we asked if we could see the preparations. I am looking at Mrs Leijten in particular. Today, two months later, we get what was available two months ago. There are recommendations, but the letter does not state whether anything has been done with these recommendations. For example, we are going to spend two months running behind it, while the Brexit Brexit is going to be the hard Brexit in just over two months' time. Could we hear within a week what has been done with the recommendations in those three reports? These are a number of clear recommendations to ensure that there is no total traffic infarct on the A1, A73, A12 and in all kinds of posts where you don't expect that at all. Two. For the sake of clarity, we are simply expecting public-private cooperation on veterinary inspection posts so that they can be established. And not a back-and-forth pong. But that's just for the stenogram, so the Minister of Agriculture can see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u364	I think we voted on the motions last Tuesday. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u365	That Tuesday before.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u366	The day before yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u367	That Tuesday before.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u368	Oh, good. This question was not fully addressed in the Brexit debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u369	Well, look, this wasn't resolved, because otherwise, of course, I would never have tabled a motion, Mr. Chairman. All these motions were also dissuaded by mistake. I'm sure you'll see that again. So I'm asking. The first question I'm asking isn't about a motion. We have now had three reports from Minister Van Nieuwenhuizen of Infrastructure and Water State which contain recommendations on aviation and traffic, so that it does not become stuck with customs. I'm okay with those quick scans being done. They're clear, too. What I am asking is whether the government can say within a week what it has done with these recommendations, so that we can see if there is a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u370	It's not like there's nothing shared after that. I also mentioned the role of Rijkswaterstaat and the Brexit transport table, where the parties sit. This led to the question whether the municipalities are involved. So I'm fine with having another update on the side of the Chamber next week, but the suggestion that nothing would have happened in the meantime or nothing would have been shared is just not right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u371	The suggestion that nothing has been done in the meantime, I don't want to do it, because I know that people are really working hard on this. But the suggestion that these pieces could have been here a little earlier, I would like to maintain extremely hard, because this has often been asked for. They've been in a drawer for two months, and that can't be done with Brexit pieces.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u372	In fact, not only do we not get the pieces, we really have to drag motions to get things. For example, there are already many things in preparation to sweep under the decree that could now simply come into the Chamber as emergency legislation. So that Brexit is being seriously abused, if you ask me. But I would actually like to ask a question about the medicines. Yesterday there was a panic in the tent: "50 crucial medicines may not be available at a Brexit-without-agreements." The European Commission has said: well, when it comes to the financial world, financial products from England, financial trade and walking, and all UK regulations in that area, are simply seen as EU regulations for a year. Isn't that what we can do for such necessary things as medicine? Why, then, should the interests of the financial world be served, and not the interests of patients?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u373	Really, while we are standing here, Mr Bruins is answering these questions in another room. I really think that makes more sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u374	That's right, in the AO's drug policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u375	Otherwise, things are gonna get really mixed up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u376	That's right. Mrs. Leijten?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u377	The panic that is being created is, in my opinion, really unnecessary if you look at what is possible from the European Commission, but also from the Netherlands, to avoid suddenly running out of medicine after 29 March. I really wonder why the government does that: do not inform us, and if they inform us, do so with panic. And when we ask for an ordinary solution that also applies to the financial world, there is a reference to another debate. It's a little diving.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u378	Creating the picture of panic, while careful preparations are being made for a no-dealbrexit which we sincerely hope will not occur, and while there is now a discussion on the very subject on which Mrs Leijten is asking a question... That's not how it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u379	I had a question about the no-dealbrexit. I realize that it may be a big question that can't be that fast, but because that no-dealbrexit is getting so close, unfortunately I asked if it would not be wise to work or argue for a fund to protect employees and small businesses. For example, the European Globalisation Fund and so on could be used. But perhaps the Minister would like to map out the possibilities for doing so. Then we can decide on that at a later date. But I can imagine that it would be wise, unfortunately, to prepare that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u380	That question was on my pile of other questions, but it could have been here too. There is indeed a Globalisation Fund at the moment. In addition, the Commission has also pointed out specifically for the fisheries sector the possibilities available there from European funds. I do not think it is possible to create an additional fund on top of the existing funds. If there is any reason to do so, we can of course look at the existing funds.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u381	I wasn't actually referring to an extra fund. But the rules for that Globalisation Fund state that you have to prove that the shock that is taking place is the result of globalisation. You can't do that with a Brexit-related shock. There may be companies falling down, and you may need part-time WW or other measures. My question is precisely whether it is not wise to set up an emergency fund in good time, drawing on existing funds, to ensure that SMEs and workers are protected after that shock. So I don't feel like we disagree on this at all, but I would like to have mapped it out so that we can come up with it in time. I am not asking for a very large new fund, but precisely for a way to react smartly, if unfortunately necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u382	In itself, that is a legitimate question. Only in fact, as I heard Mr Asscher say, is there going to be some kind of pressure: there is money and we have to go for it. As Mr Asscher knows, in addition to the Globalisation Fund, there is also the European Social Fund. That too could provide a perspective. But I really think that at that moment we should act on things, and not create a separate pot for this, not even within existing funds.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u383	Finally, Mr. Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u384	Too bad. I am not asking for a separate fund now, but for the identification of opportunities that we can use very quickly if we need part-time WW or emergency loans very quickly. I do not believe that there will be a great attraction, because you only need it if that hard Brexit takes place, and then we still have bigger problems. It is precisely in the context of preparation that I am concerned to ensure that we do the best we can to protect workers and small businesses. That's what my question was about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u385	Once again, I think it is a logical question, but I am a little more cautious than Mr Asscher about the effect of announcing that specific money is available for this. Mr Mulder raised the question of coalition formation, also in connection with the WRR report, I assume. The cabinet is constantly forming coalitions. As we also write in the letter on the State of the Union, it has been a tradition since the Peace of Münster, which did not even need dusting. The Hanseatic coalition has now gained some fame, but in areas such as human rights, we have been extensively discussed here, transparency or climate policy, we often form quite different coalitions. That is actually the daily work of me, but also of colleagues in their fields. Mrs Leijten asked us to go into the access that Shell or other companies have to the Permanent Representation to the European Union. In the preparation of European measures, it is logical that all interested parties can be heard. If they are measures that affect businesses, it is logical that they too should be heard; they can also be consumer organisations or other stakeholders. Indeed, meetings are deliberately organised by the Permanent Representation, but this is part of a normal balance of interests, as is the case with legislation here in the Netherlands. When it comes to transparency, the Dutch Government is strongly in favour of making it clear who has been visiting and that there is transparency about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u386	I want the Minister to answer all the questions first. Then Mr Anne Mulder, who I have just sent away from the microphone, will have the opportunity to ask a question and you too, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u387	Mrs Van der Graaf asked us to respond to the recommendations of the State Committee on Parliamentary System which specifically concern the functioning and control of the European Union. I understand the impatience of this debate, but I do think it is logical that that answer is part of the overall cabinet response to the Remkes Committee's report. Mrs Buitenweg and Mr Omtzigt asked for transparency around the European Council. When it comes to purely legislative proposals, there is transparency. When it comes to other procedures, I have just gone into that. The cabinet is focusing on transparency, but we still have a long way to go in convincing other countries. Not all parts of such a decision-making process can be public, whether they are held in Brussels or in The Hague, because in the end many consultations are confidential, but great progress can still be made. Then Mrs Van der Graaf and Mr Bishop asked us to respond to the message that an infringement procedure on pulse fishing would be launched. That's an unconfirmed message right now. It's basically a leaked message. That makes it difficult to respond to that. A government that is going to intervene in an infringement procedure does not relate to the independent functioning of the Commission, which we were just talking about. Let's wait and see if the rumor is true. Mr Van Raan asked us to discuss the European Union's activities in the field of disinformation. This has been discussed with the Chamber on a regular basis. The cabinet believes that, first of all, there should be a variety of press and sufficient media awareness among young people. It is not for a government to judge what is or is not true. At the same time, we recognise that a number of Eastern European countries are particularly concerned about Russian disinformation. As long as European activities focus on what we consider acceptable in a rule of law, in a democracy, we accept that these activities should also be carried out at European level. Mr Tang asked me to go into the agreements with social media companies such as Facebook and Google when it comes to elections. A code of conduct has been agreed with these companies by the European Union. This is reported publicly on a monthly basis. This code of conduct will be reviewed by the end of this year. The Party for Animals asked for figures from the NVWA regarding animal transport. I cannot give it to you on this debate. So if the Party for Animals still wants it, then it is useful to ask that question in writing. Then there is the opportunity for LNV's colleague to get the necessary figures together. Mr. Chairman. I hope I have answered the questions in the first place.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u388	I shall go first to Mr Anne Mulder. Then Mrs Van der Graaf can ask a question. Just one question, unless you don't want to use the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u389	I am concerned about coalition formation and flexibility. We had the International Affairs Advisory Council here. He said: if you really want to build coalitions, it can sometimes be advisable to be a little more flexible to get what you want. Then it may sometimes be advisable not to have a direct position on a proposal as the Netherlands. How does the Minister see that? Does he agree with that? What does that mean for the traffic between Chamber and Parliament?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u390	I do not think it would be good for the movement between government and parliament if we did not indicate how we feel about a proposal. Our own position is, of course, not dependent on our assessment of the political situation. How far we can finally come with our position that we also did in this debate extensively depends, of course, on that political situation. But it always starts with its own point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u391	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u392	The International Affairs Advisory Council says: just if you want to build coalitions, you shouldn't show the back of your tongue. You know exactly what you want, but you don't want to say it yet for your negotiating position. So the Minister says: is it really not right what is being said?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u393	I do not think it is right in the traffic between the Chamber and the Government if we were to send you meaningless chips to keep our hands completely free in the negotiations. Then you can't control us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u394	The fact that our Permanent Representation in Brussels is doing government officials work for industry is problematic, especially if we do not know what work they are doing for industry. Now the report I gave you, but also yesterday in a clear article by Follow the Money, very well described how the Netherlands, the Dutch Permanent Representation, helped the industry to get the principle of innovation into European regulation, so that, for example, the car industry can pollute significantly innovatively, where it probably would not have been allowed to do so on the basis of the precautionary principle. Now the Chamber has never been informed. I have looked up the initiatives of the Dutch Permanent Representation to get that principle of innovation on the agenda. How could...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u395	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u396	... to check the commitment of the Dutch Parliament when the lobby decides what the Permanent Representation will bring to Brussels?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u397	There is now a very strong reference to a thick report that has just been put on my desk. I would be happy to respond in writing after having been able to read that and to maintain the content of Mrs Leijten's firm assertions. But then I really need to get a chance to read that report.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u398	That would be the least we should be informed in writing. And then I would also like to have the reconstruction of the principle of innovation. We have been informed in this Chamber about the existence of the principle of innovation as if it were the Commission that proposed it. But the Dutch Permanent Representation has prepared it together with the industry without us knowing it, without knowing that our government officials are being deployed to do so. Does the Minister agree with me that this should not be the position of the Dutch Permanent Representation? That position should be in the Dutch interest, shouldn't it? I will certainly mention the relationship with the Chamber and transparency. That position is not: to set something aside without the Chamber having any insight into it at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u399	Mrs Leijten looks at me very angry. Well, I thought I'd just done her a hand-picking by saying thank you for the report I just got. I'm gonna take my people and come back to that in writing. Before that happens, I cannot go into everything Mrs Leijten is saying now and I cannot say whether anything has gone wrong. Because I can't judge that, but I'll go into it. I just promised.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u400	I had said that it was indeed the least he could do, but the Follow-up question was that it was not possible for a Dutch Permanent Representation, which is actually part of the government, to act in this case, they did so for the business community which the Chamber does not know. That's impossible, isn't it? Surely the Minister can answer that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u401	It is a very firm statement that something would be like that when Mrs Leijten says, when I really want to read that fat report first and then ask internally about what happened. Then we'll get back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u402	The Minister will return to that in writing. Mrs. Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u403	The Minister just said that when the Council is acting as legislator, there is openness. Then the cameras are on. What I wanted to say is not so much that the cameras should be on, but that there should be more of an atmosphere that does justice to the legislative role: that there are stands, that there can be all kinds of citizens, that there are journalists present, that you really get something from that dynamic that fits the role as legislator. Sometimes the Council is not a legislator. In other ways, yes. I think it is important that ministers also experience that they are representatives of a legislative task, which is different from meeting as diplomats behind closed doors, as members of the cabinet. That was my question. Do you want to work to ensure that much more also creates an atmosphere that does justice to that of a legislator?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u404	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u405	I do not share the view that, at least as far as the Dutch contribution is concerned, there is a closed atmosphere. Here we have the procedure of the fact sheets, which I have just indicated that I think it is important for us to reflect our position on them. Both my colleagues and I have monthly discussions on the Dutch commitment in Europe. I am not going to suggest that I am going to argue again in Brussels for stands, for the rather short parts of the European Councils in which it is really about legislation. In addition to the transparency that exists at those times, I do not know whether I think that is a sensible measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u406	Finally, Mrs Buitenweg, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u407	It is interesting to know why it is not a sensible measure... I'm still talking, Mr. Blok. Minister Blok is the one who gets very excited when it comes to releasing documents. Then he thinks that there is a lot of publicity, because Minister Blok might find it very fantastic to read it at night. But for a representative, it's also about being in the sight of the people you do it for. So that you also create an atmosphere that makes it clear that at those moments you are not just a cabinet member who has a diplomatic conversation. It should also be much clearer that you have that representative role as legislator. So I certainly hope that those stands will one day be able to get there. I would like an answer to the question as to why that would be unwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u408	Well, first of all, that requires a whole new building. It's a lot to install in all those conference rooms stands. You know the Brussels meeting rooms. We can't do that in the current building. So then we have to weigh an investment in such a building costs more than 100 million in a new building against the question of whether people really find it very interesting to go there instead of looking through the camera at those rather short parts. I don't know if I want to spend $100 million on that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u409	Let me come back to the question of pulse fishing and the possible infringement procedure. The Minister has just said that these are mere rumors. It's a little more than that. I think there's some in writing. From a complaint procedure initiated by the European Commission, the reaction is in writing that this is the intention. That's a little bit more than rumors. I ask the Minister what steps the government has taken. Has the Netherlands been heard in a complaint procedure, for example? What steps have been taken? And what steps could the government take in this context? The Christian Union finds it incredibly important to prevent infringement proceedings if the Netherlands is also convinced that this is not justified.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u410	Mrs Van der Graaf knows, of course, that there has been an incredible amount of energy from the Dutch cabinet and Mr Schouten in preventing the containment of pulse fishing and that this will continue to be the case in the future. At the moment, there is in fact no intergroup procedure and as long as it is not there, the Netherlands cannot give any input either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u411	I can see you're having second thoughts. You don't have to. All right, Mrs. Van der Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u412	Do I understand the Minister that the government is not going to take any further action until a procedure is initiated? But my question was precisely on that preliminary journey. What has been the role of this and has the Netherlands played a role in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u413	The Netherlands has played a very extensive role. Earlier in my reply, I indicated that it is not purely when a Member State tries to influence the Commission's control role. If we did that, we would be imposing that political role again. Again, the factual situation is that no intergroup procedure has been initiated. Once it has started, the full energy of the Dutch government will be aimed at indicating that the Dutch attitude towards pulse fishing is the right one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u414	Something quite different, namely the European Commission's desire to travel. Minister Blok sent a letter today, which indeed shows that in 2018 Mr Juncker alone made almost half of his official visits per private jet. In the letter, Minister Blok writes that we are committed to austerity, but does the Minister agree that we should simply not want and pay for private jet journeys of this kind?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u415	You can't say that in general. It may be that you're going to an area where there are no scheduled flights. Like my colleagues, I sometimes have to go to an area without scheduled flights and then a plane has to be hired to do so. And yes, the same goes for Commissioners. But that does not affect the importance of austerity, which is why we are committed to keeping the new budget, the MFF, limited. But you can't say you always have to take a line flight, because that just can't always happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u416	Thank you. That was the government's first term. I actually want to suspend until...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u417	Yeah, it's good. A bite to eat.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u418	Oh, yeah. An enthusiastic person who needs a suspension. I shall suspend the sitting until 8 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u419	We will continue with the debate on the State of the European Union and we have arrived at the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Anne Mulder on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u420	Mr President, thank you. It is extraordinary to talk about the European Union when a Member State is about to leave the EU. We talked about Brexit. I told you, don't want to be nexit, don't want to be unwise. Mr. Chairman. I have two motions and they deal with subjects that we discussed this afternoon, the violation of rules. I've been talking about Poland not following the rules. We can't extradite suspects to that anymore. Italy violates the rules...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u421	I'd start the motions right away, otherwise you'll be running out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u422	Well, then I will, after this very brief introduction. Mr. Chairman. The first motion, partly on behalf of Mr Omtzigt. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a number of countries in the European Union do not comply with the commitments made;]] [[noting, for example, that this is a threat to judicial cooperation and that the stability of the euro is at stake;]] [[noting that at the same time these countries receive a significant contribution from the European budget;]] [[considers that this cannot be explained;]] [[calls on the Government to commit itself to mechanisms to reduce countries financially in the event of structural shortcomings in the rule of law;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that countries which do not comply with budgetary rules are effectively reduced in their revenue from the European budget,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Anne Mulder and Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35078-3]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u423	And then my second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the European Commission has different tasks;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how the tasks of the European Commission could be separated, particularly with regard to enforcement tasks;]] [[calls on the Government to urge the next President of the Commission to achieve this separation of functions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Member Anne Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35078-4]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u424	Brief question on the second motion. I remember the procedural meeting of the European Affairs Committee in which Mr Mulder also made a proposal. Is that the same kind of investigation? Are we gonna do that twice now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u425	Well, I don't want to say that. This is mostly about enforcement duties, but you shouldn't double things. I have just said why it is important that we now have the Commission to review the budget, but also to monitor and monitor it. You have to separate that, so there is another action in this and that is the difference: to urge the next President of the Commission to actually achieve that separation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u426	Finally, Mrs Maeijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u427	So the only difference is the action, because last week the Committee on European Affairs decided, not with my consent, but by majority vote, to carry out that investigation. And now you're actually asking for the same kind of government investigation, plus action?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u428	Yes, because this is so important and fundamental, then you have to spark on multiple spark plugs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u429	Thank you, Mr. Anne Mulder. I now give the floor to Mr Van Baalen, also on behalf of the VVD in the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u430	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Much has been said about the spitzen candidacy, how important it is. I am glad that I belong to ALDE, the party in which Mrs In 't Veld and I sit and who said: we do not participate in that circus. We are going to campaign with a broad team, but ultimately it is the European Council that makes a proposal and the Parliament must agree to it. There will be a discussion and then let not the leader of the largest party become the President of the Commission by definition, but the best man or woman to be found. That's gotta be it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u431	Thank you, Mr. Van Baalen. I now give the floor to Mrs Maeijer on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u432	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Three motions, so I'll start right away. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to announce the Dutch departure from the European Union, a subsequent one, in Brussels,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Maeijer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35078-5]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u433	Motion 2. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the EU is striving for European sovereignty at the expense of national sovereignty and therefore wants to withdraw from veto rights;]] [[believes that we should defend and use veto rights;]] [[calls on the government not to give up veto rights in any area,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Maeijer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35078-6]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u434	Then the final motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u435	Go ahead. The interruption will come after that. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u436	It's like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the EU has also shown that it is a wasteful pit in the last year;]] [[having regard to the fact that the European Union's figurehead, President Juncker, is nevertheless the elite crown with the use of a private jet for official travel;]] [[calls on the government in Brussels to state that the Netherlands in no way wishes to contribute to this kind of decadent outburst and that Commission President Juncker must pay these bills out of his own pocket,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Maeijer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35078-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u437	I must say that I find it brave of the PVV to submit a nexit motion. But this motion is so simple, when how you're going to do it is so complicated, as the British show. Can Mrs Maeijer just point it out? I'm only asking for the third time today what kind of nextit she wants? She was talking about "about Switzerland." But can she just be very specific? Because that's the big problem of the British. They know, I want out. But they don't know how. Can she go into more detail on how she sees it exactly? Then we can see if she can do what the British can't do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u438	It is the fourth time for me, as I have counted today, that Mr. Mulder asks me this question. I've also given him four answers. I'll do it again. Departure from the European Union: you could become a member of the European Free Trade Organisation and conclude bilateral agreements with the European Union, including on access to the internal market, i.e. the free movement of goods, services, capital and persons. Unlike England, our problem lies not in the free movement of persons within the EU but outside the EU. So we're getting out of Schengen. I have just given those examples. I hope that Mr Mulder will be able to imagine that not all of that in one motion for all the 80 000, or how many are there, European Union laws, because then it would be a very long motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u439	Thank you, Mrs Maeijer. No, Mr. Mulder, you're not getting the floor. I now turn to Mr Omtzigt on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u440	Mr President, about my speaking time: six minutes divided by three is two. Rules of Procedure Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the answers. Europe is at a crossroads, with Brexit and with Italy. The government has made it clear that Italy does not follow the rules. I expect her to act on that in the next few weeks. I am very interested in the Commission's letter. I assume it will be sent immediately to the House of Representatives. For the rest, the temperature in Europe is rising. We wish each other hell, we do coups; sometimes you would think that some people just drink a little too much in Brussels. Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. The first one is about something I didn't get an answer to. I'd like to put this to you anyway. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting the need for the EU itself to comply with standards of rule of law and transparency;]] [[invites the government, possibly together with other Member States, to have an independent external check on the legal aspects of the Union, including transparency, democracy and adequate accountability of the EU institutions (including, of course, the ECB),]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35078-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u441	Mr. Chairman. The ECB is, of course, particularly concerned with banking supervision, I would add before anyone talks about the independent monetary task. Mr. Chairman. I'll wait for the checkpoint at the Brexit. That has to be applied for before 15 February. I am therefore very curious as to what came out of the consultation, but I cannot imagine that a motion of ours will be explained in such a way that there will be no choice. I am also waiting for the explanation of the motion on driving licences. Besides, I have one more motion here. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Brexit may lead to a shortage of a large number of "critical" medicines;]] [[noting that the government has also failed to identify the medical devices on the market in the Netherlands which are dependent on the UK and on a certificate issued in the UK;]] [[noting that the Cabinet places responsibility for the availability of these medicines and devices with purchasing organisations, suppliers and wholesalers;]] [[believes that the government should take more responsibility for this;]] [[calls on the government to take the lead as of today in preventing shortages of critical medicines and medical devices due to the Brexit;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber within one month how the availability of each medicinal product on the CBG list is secured after a hard Brexit;]] [[Finally, calls on the Government to identify which tools may no longer be available after a hard Brexit and to prepare for the granting of exemptions for the import of these devices, so that these exemptions can be granted, if necessary, on the day of the Brexit,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt and Mr Van den Berg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35078-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u442	I have a procedural question. There has just been a general consultation of Medicines and there will also be a VAO on this subject. Isn't it obvious that this motion will be dealt with there, so that the US Secretary of State can say something about it? Otherwise we'll do the same thing in two different places.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u443	It is not by accident that we have already had three discussions on the Brexit. In that we have something about driving licences. Let's see, what else did we talk about? That was the verdict. You can make that up to LNV, too. We have also started here on the problems of medicines in the European context. I would add that this is very urgent, as is the judgment. Because if that's not done for next week, we don't have any im- and export of live animals. Here too there is a very urgent need.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u444	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u445	I can imagine the government saying that we will have a reaction to this tomorrow, but I want to be able to vote on this on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u446	Does Mr Omtzigt of the CDA also find it strange that the European Commission for products from the financial sector should be able to announce that the UK legislation is seen as European legislation for one year, but does not do so for medicines and devices that guarantee patient safety?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u447	Short reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u448	I have indeed been surprised that the certificates for medical devices of British certification bodies expire on the Brexit date. This is not only for the things that are produced in Britain, but also for things that are produced in the US and certified in Britain, for example. So we say at once: ah, now those certificates are no longer valid. The letter from the government states that all these institutions must build up stocks themselves. It can't be.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u449	This is a second term. We are not going to discuss every motion again, really. A short question about the motion or a question that is relevant to your group's voting behaviour, but that is all. Thank you, Mr. Ommzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u450	Thank you, Mr President. One more comment on the first. Should the government need a hint: the Venice Commission or the AIV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u451	Thank you, Mr. Ommzigt. I call Mr Jetten on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u452	Mr. Chairman. D66 opts for a strong Europe, allowing us to control our European institutions in a transparent manner. You may differ on the way in which the spitzencandidates system has been established and how it contributes to the choice for a President of the European Commission, but I would like to say this again: I considered the choice of words 'a coup d'état' to be really inappropriate and I urge the Minister not to use it after this one article. I have two motions. First of all, a motion along with Mr Anne Mulder. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that a European Commission that takes political decisions should also be politically accountable and that this should also apply to individual European Commissioners;]] [[considers that the European Parliament should have instruments to draw conclusions where a majority believes that a fundamental error is being committed by a Commissioner or where Parliament has been misinformed;]] [[noting that there is a basis for the European Parliament to send the entire European Commission away, but this cannot be done by an individual European Commissioner;]] [[calls on the Government to actively promote, at European level, the right of the European Parliament to dismiss an individual European Commissioner,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jetten and Mr Anne Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35078-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u453	Then my second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that there is a very worrying development within the European Union to the detriment of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights in several Member States;]] [[believes that fundamental rights should be guaranteed as strictly as those agreed within the euro area, but that there is no mechanism for systematic review;]] [[Considering that in October 2016, the European Parliament adopted Sophie in 't Veld's report calling for a mechanism that systematically reviews the extent to which all Member States respect the values laid down in Article 2 of the European Treaty, also known as the fundamental rights acquis;]] [[noting that, in addition to the actions already undertaken by the government for peer review between Member States, this fundamental rights test is of added value due to its objective and systematic nature;]] [[calls on the Government, at European level, to work towards the establishment of a fundamental rights pact, so that all Member States are given the same level of measurement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jetten and Mr Asscher. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35078-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u454	Four.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u455	Four? I'd start reading the motions right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u456	Start right away? Don't you want to reflect a little first?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u457	No, we don't do that here after 8:00.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u458	No? That's too bad. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the European Parliament has concluded that there is a clear risk of serious breach of the principles of democracy, fundamental rights and the rule of law in Hungary;]] [[Whereas, with the adoption of the Sargentini report, the European Parliament has activated the Article 7 procedure by two thirds of a majority;]] [[Whereas this Article 7 requires that Hungary's reply should be heard within a reasonable period and that this has not been done so far;]] [[calls on the government at EU level to make setting up and facilitating a hearing with Hungary a top priority,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the European Commission has the ambition of introducing the 5G network in all Member States by 2020;]] [[Considering that large amounts of data can be transmitted and received through this network, and that it is important to ensure that this network is optimally protected against hacking and abuse;]] [[Considering that the Chinese government's grip on Chinese companies is (potential) high;]] [[calls on the Government to make every effort to dedicate the development of the 5G network to a European company,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas EU Member States have a right of veto for European proposals on tax payments;]] [[Whereas this results in proposals being delayed, weakened and often not produced at all;]] [[Whereas Article 116 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union provides for the possibility of taking measures by qualified majority when they are intended to prevent distortions of the internal market;]] [[calls on the Government to make efforts to ensure that the European Commission makes proposals, on the basis of this Article 116, which contribute to fair tax payments by companies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Buitenweg, Mr Asscher and Mr Jetten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35078-12]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Buitenweg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35078-13]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Buitenweg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35078-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u459	Finally, I have another motion which I would like to make together with Mr Jetten, following the recognition of the Prime Minister that the election of the European Parliament is relevant. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the election of the European Parliament is relevant to the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the government to commit itself to the highest possible turnout in the forthcoming European elections,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Buitenweg and Mr Jetten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35078-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u460	Mr President, I have these motions. No, I have one motion. However, I would like to say that I am a little disappointed that neither the Minister nor the Prime Minister has answered my question and our question about a more flexible European Union, and that you can also organise the option of not participating in policies. Now it is 'one size fits all', as if we are one large European population, from Portugal to Poland, and from Sweden to Greece. That's not true. If you assume that, you don't recognize and recognize historical differences. I am really sorry that it has not been possible to deal with this today. I also regret that, for example, it was not about removing the right of initiative from the European Commission. But my motion is about the lobby and the lobby machine that Brussels is. And certainly our Dutch Permanent Representation is that too. We must stand up for the Dutch interest, and not because the companies, which already have their own lobby circuit, are even more helping in the saddle. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Permanent Representation of the Dutch Government in Brussels lobbies for the interests of multinationals;]] [[having noted that the Permanent Representation organises, inter alia, drinks which it has sponsored by the business community;]] [[considers that a representation of the Dutch State should be independent, but is purchased by companies through sponsorship influence;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the work of the Permanent Representation is organised independently of the interests of multinationals,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35078-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u461	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Notes that in 2015 the United Nations adopted a development agenda focusing on human rights, economic growth, climate, peace and security in order to put an end to poverty, inequality and climate change;]] [[calls on the Government to support an overarching EU strategy on sustainable development goals that can drive and accelerate the transition to a sustainable Europe,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher and Mr Jetten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35078-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u462	There seems to be an interruption by Mr Omtzigt. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that Member States miss billions because tech giants pay little profit tax on their economic activity, as long as tax systems are fragmented along national lines, and assume that economic activity is linked to a geographical location;]] [[noting that France and Germany have therefore taken the initiative for an advertising tax of 3%, so that real economic activity can be taxed;]] [[calls on the Government to support the Franco-German initiative and not to oppose it,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher and Mr Verhoeven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35078-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u463	No, please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u464	Could you please cut the time, Mr. Chairman? The PvdA says here: support the Franco-German initiative for a 3% turnover tax. That would mean that companies like Google, which have a huge profit margin, de facto pay 3% of their turnover in profit tax. We know that once you've introduced a tax, you won't change it. Does the PvdA now consider a sales tax of 3%, which amounts to a profit tax of less than 10% of the profits, a percentage of which it thinks "well, great"?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u465	Certainly not, but the current situation is one in which the five largest tech conglomerates barely pay taxes. We all know that. They are very easily able to, as I read to them quite quickly, strategically choose a geographical location. I think that the Franco-German initiative is a start to the road towards a European digital tax. I believe that we have now reached the point where we have become so vulnerable as a national economy that this is necessary, because otherwise companies are always playing against each other. That is why I believe that the initiative deserves support. Am I saying that would have reached the maximum? Not as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u466	Finally, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u467	I understand that, but the moment you capture this 3%, it just hangs on 3%. This is an outcome for the PvdA that is not a choice of its own but with which it could live, so if Google pays 3% of its turnover in tax?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u468	We're looking at it differently. We believe that if a more effective tax is levied, for example on advertising, then you can go from one direction to another with the rates. That is a very interesting step, which is also feared by Google. That's why there's a lot of lobbying against it. I'd love it if it worked out. Perhaps it will help the CDA that the rate is still relatively attractive. Then we can enter into a fruitful partnership.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u469	Proceed with the rest of the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u470	Then the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the revised Detachment Directive now allows sector-cao to apply if Member States choose to do so;]] [[calls on the Government to choose, in the implementation of the revised Detachment Directive, the application of sector Cao's for the remuneration of cross-border posted workers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that recent research shows that the Netherlands misses €22 billion due to tax avoidance, the so-called tax gap, and that these figures are based on estimates;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out an annual coherent analysis of the tax gap in all areas, in order to identify the size so that the Tax Administration can come up with appropriate measures,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that social media, including Facebook, not only provide a platform for political nepadvertenties around election time;]] [[calls on the Government to enforce the guarantee that Facebook will provide full transparency on the sender of political ads no later than three weeks before the upcoming Provincial State elections,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher and Mr Buitenweg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35078-19]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher and Mr Buitenweg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35078-20]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher and Mr Buitenweg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35078-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u471	Thank you, Madam President. I too shall begin by reading my motions. There's two of them. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the third mandate of the EU Special Envoy for Freedom of Religion and Belief expires in May;]] [[Whereas the Special Envoy plays an important role in promoting mutual respect for different beliefs and freedom of religion and beliefs as fundamental human rights;]] [[Whereas in a resolution the European Parliament called for the mandate of the Special Envoy to be strengthened;]] [[calls on the government in the Council to support the extension and strengthening of the mandate of the Special Envoy for Freedom of Religion and Belief,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van der Graaf and Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35078-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u472	I'll read the second motion a little faster, otherwise I won't get there. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the negotiations in the European Union on the so-called technical measures, including pulse fishing, are about to come to an end and are likely to be detrimental to the Dutch cutter fishing sector;]] [[Whereas switching from pulse to beam trawl fisheries results in a significant increase in fuel consumption and CO emissions and will lead to more unwanted by-catches;]] [[noting that if the pulse cutters have to switch to the traditional beam trawl, this will result in a significant reduction in economic efficiency per cutter and for the whole sector;]] [[calls on the Government to exert political pressure on EU negotiations to reach a workable compromise quickly;]] [[calls on the Government to do everything within its power to prevent a formal infringement procedure by the European Commission against the Netherlands, due to alleged incorrect release of pulse charges;]] [[calls on the Government to pursue an innovation and transition period for the sector if the European Union decides to ban pulses,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van der Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35078-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u473	I give the floor to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u474	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will deal with the motions that have been tabled. The motion in part No. 3 by Mr Mulder and Mr Omtzigt. It calls on the government to work for a mechanism to finance countries in the event of structural shortcomings in the rule of law and to be able to effectively shorten countries that do not comply with budgetary rules. In its commitment to the Multiannual Financial Framework, the government is indeed committed to linking the right to European funds to the rule of law, to the commitment to financial reforms and to compliance with budgetary rules. Against that background, I can leave this motion to judge Chamber. The second motion, the one in part No. 4 also from Mr Mulder, calls on the Government to examine how the tasks of the European Commission could be separated and, in particular, to look at the enforcement functions and to urge the President of the Commission to achieve this separation of functions. I indicated in my first term that I think that is a sensible route. This motion I can leave to judge Chamber. The motion in part No. 5 by Mrs Maeijer asks the government to announce a new postit. Against the background of the enormous damage that a nexit would cause to the Dutch economy and the inhabitants of the Netherlands and the enormous uncertainty that we are now seeing around the Brexit, I must advise against this motion. The motion in part No. Mrs Maeijer asked the government not to give up veto rights in any area. I have indicated that we will look critically at proposals, but that there may be situations in which this is in Dutch interest. As strongly as this motion has now been formulated, I must advise against it. The motion in part No. 7 also belongs to Mrs Maeijer and asks the government in Brussels to indicate that the Netherlands does not wish to cooperate in any way in this kind of decadent ecstasy. These relate to a private aircraft. I indicated that it might be necessary for the Dutch Government to visit an area where there are no scheduled flights, for example at a time when there are no scheduled flights. Tax money must be handled with care, but as firmly as this motion is, it is not actually feasible. I have to discourage the motion. Then the motion to part No. 8 by Mr Omtzigt. It invites the government, possibly together with other countries, to conduct an independent external check on the constitutional aspects of the Union, including transparency, democracy and adequate accountability of EU institutions. Of course, there is already a whole system of checks-and-balances in the European Union on the rule of law. We have the Article 7 procedure and the Court of Justice. There is, of course, just democratic control, here in the Chamber and by the European Parliament. There is also the European Court of Auditors. In the transparency dossier, we're both trying to get movement back. So I don't really think it adds anything to the instruments that are there to stack another new instrument on top. So I must also advise against this motion. The motion in part No. Mr Omtzigt and Mrs Van den Berg asked the government to take stock of the resources that might no longer be available after a hard Brexit. This is about medical devices. Since a VAO has been announced on this subject, I would ask Mr Omtzig to hold this motion until that VAO takes place.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u475	On the motion in part No. 8 the government says that there is already an Article 7 procedure. There is, but it only applies to the countries. This is precisely a democratic check on the Union as such. There are those shortcomings in transparency and in adequate accountability with the Court of Auditors and the Ombudsman. That is what I would like to see mapped out once. That is what the Venice Commission should ask, and that is what the AIV is asking. The government says it can be done, but it can't be done. I'm not going to make the motion in part no. I would therefore like to have an opinion from the government on what can and can't be done. If that comes in writing, I can imagine, because I understand that this Minister cannot immediately make this motion quite clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u476	At the motion in part No. I have not only referred to the Article 7 procedure, but I have pointed out the role played by this Parliament and the European Parliament and the possibility for parliaments to use their own resources. Against the background of this large number of instruments, I do not think it makes sense to add another one to that, so I remain unadvised in judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u477	And 9?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u478	On the motion in part No. 9: even if the Chamber wants a written response, I ask that that motion be held. If the Chamber wishes to have a ruling now, I can only say 'dissuade', because I cannot give a substantive opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u479	And the motion in part No. 10?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u480	The motion by Mr Jetten and Mr Anne Mulder to item No. 10 calls on the government to actively promote, at European level, the right of the European Parliament to dismiss an individual European Commissioner. There is already the possibility for the President of the Commission to request an individual Commissioner to resign. The European Parliament could, of course, call for this in a ruling. What the motion is asking for now really is a treaty change, and that opens up a whole process in which many more demands can be put on the table. The government does not think that is wise, so as it is now formulated, I must advise against it. The motion in part No. Mr Jetten and Mr Asscher asked the government to work at European level to set up a fundamental rights pact. I indicated in the debate that I do like the idea, but, in terms of feasibility, I prefer a peer review mechanism, as mentioned in Mrs van der Graaf's motion a year ago. So I'm going to have to dissuade this motion. I will focus on the implementation of the Van der Graaf motion. The motion in part No. 12 by Mrs Buitenweg and Mr Asscher and Mr Jetten, asking the government at EU level to facilitate a hearing with Hungary and to make this a top priority. I've indicated that this is my bet, so I'd like to leave this motion to judge Chamber. The motion in part No. Mrs Buitenweg's 13 calls on the government to make every effort to dedicate the development of the 5G network to a European company. Mrs Buitenweg rightly points to the vulnerabilities of vital infrastructure in terms of possibilities for espionage and the use of backdoors. The deployment of the 5G network will carefully consider how this can be done as safely as possible. We also really want to be able to deliver customization. Since it is a matter of national security, I cannot anticipate the exact type of measures involved. The way it is formulated now: always and only a European company is a formulation that is not the only solution to the safety problem. That's why I have to discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u481	I think it is important to say that it is not just about safety, but also about promoting an industry of its own, for safety reasons too. That is why we say that this should preferably be to a European industry. It says we're calling on the government to commit itself to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u482	I do not know whether it is right and in the interests of the Dutch or European consumer to say that this important development must necessarily be carried out by a European company. If that European company or those companies are more expensive or less qualitative than non-European companies, where we do not have safety concerns, then we would be failing Europeans by not giving them the opportunity to provide services or products, so this wording does not necessarily lead to the best outcome for the European.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u483	Finally, Mrs Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u484	Then I look forward very much to the China strategy, because it is precisely because we in Europe are going to stimulate our own industry and technology, to stand alongside the United States and China, to make our own decisions and not be dependent on them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u485	Yes. Once again, we take security risks seriously, from whatever side they come. But I'd do it another way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u486	So the verdict?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u487	The motion in part No. 13. I'd like to dissuade you. Then the motion to part No. 14, also from Mrs Buitenweg. It invites the government to make efforts to ensure that the European Commission makes proposals on the basis of Article 116 which contribute to fair tax payments by companies. This would actually undermine the unanimity that we now require in the case of tax proposals. In this area, the government considers that to be a prerequisite. So I'm going to have to dissuade this motion, too. The motion in part No. Mrs Buitenweg and Mr Jetten asked the government to work for the highest possible turnout in the forthcoming European elections. That is indeed the government's commitment. There will also be a campaign for this, a neutral rise campaign. So we'd like to leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. In the motion in part No. Mrs Leijten asked the government to ensure that the work of the Permanent Representative was organised independently of the interests of multinationals. This motion is based on a number of assumptions that I do not share. I thought I would meet Mrs Leijten by saying that I will look seriously at the report and come back to it in writing, but I must advise against this motion. In the motion in part No. 17 by Mr Asscher and Mr Jetten, the government is invited to speak in favour of an overall EU strategy on the sustainable development goals that can drive and accelerate the transition to a sustainable Europe. This fits very well with the key points of the cabinet, so I would like to leave the judgment on this motion to the Chamber. In the Asscher/Verhoeven motion to item No. 18 it is noted that France and Germany have initiated an advertising tax of 3% in order to tax the real economic activity of techristians. The motion calls on the government to support the Franco-German initiative and not to oppose it. The government has previously indicated that it wants to look at proposals to tax social media and ICT companies in a constructive and critical way. The Franco-German proposal has not yet been worked out in such a way that I can already say whether or not we are going to support it. In fact, I would prefer the motion to be held until a more informed judgment can be reached. If that is not the case, I would have to advise her now, because I simply cannot go into the substance of that proposal. The Asscher/Buitenweg motion in part No. 19 calls on the Government to choose to apply sector-cao for the remuneration of cross-border posted workers when implementing the revised Detachment Directive. Minister Koolmees will come forward with a legislative proposal to implement this directive. I would also like to ask Mr Asscher and Mrs Buitenweg to hold the motion until the legislative proposal is dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u488	With this motion, we wanted to give this idea to the drafting of that bill. It has been formed in itself in several European countries and it is in line with the principle that I asked Mr Mulder: equal pay for equal work in the same place. Perhaps you still want to take a look at that, then Mr Koolmees can easily work out that bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u489	But then I want to be able to come up with a written response. I would ask you, at least, to hold the motion until that written response is received.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u490	Are you going to hold the motion, Mr. Asscher? Turns out so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u491	The motion in part No. 20 also belongs to Mr Asscher and Mrs Buitenweg. This motion calls on the government to make an annual coherent analysis of the tax gap in all the areas mentioned earlier in the motion. Here too, I really want to be able to have discussions with Mr Snel. I cannot judge this for a moment. It is a debate in which this important subject cannot be discussed in detail with officials. So I ask the authors to hold the motion until I can come up with a written response.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u492	Mr. Asscher, the motion to part No. Hold 20?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u493	Yes. We look forward to the written response.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u494	Until the written response arrives. Mr. Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u495	On the advice of Mr Buitenweg, I am politely asking for that written response to be given at the usual high rate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u496	Check!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u497	At the request of Mr Asscher, I propose his motion (35078, No. 20). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u498	The motion in part No. 21 by Mr Asscher and Mrs Buitenweg, at the latest three weeks before the forthcoming Provincial State elections, the government is calling for the guarantee that Facebook will give full transparency to the sender of political advertisements. It is not going to work as firmly as it has been formulated here. I think it is good to go through that with Mr Ollongren in an appropriate debate on the procedures surrounding elections. But in such a short period of time introducing such far-reaching measures is not real. So the motion in part No. Twenty-one, I'm gonna have to dissuade you. The motion in part No. 22 by Mrs Van der Graaf and Mr Omtzigt to call on the government in the Council to support the extension and strengthening of the mandate of the Special Envoy for Freedom of Religion and Belief. I'm gonna cut extension and backup. The government will be happy to work for extension, because we see the added value of this envoy. In the case of reinforcement, it is frankly not clear to me what is meant, so I cannot promise that immediately. But the extension is, so with that addition I can leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 23 by Mrs Van der Graaf...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u499	Mrs. Van der Graaf, on the previous motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u500	I can explain. The European Parliament has adopted a resolution on this matter. In it, it called for reinforcements. This reinforcement is in line with the support of the envoy, but also with regard to the mandate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u501	I'm afraid I don't remember that resolution, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u502	That is why we have our MEPs!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u503	I understand that the candidate present here is shocked that I do not remember this resolution. I will not list which resolutions I do not know, because I do not know! I want to take a serious look at it, but I can only say with certainty about the extension section: Court of Justice judgment. Then there is Mrs van der Graaf's final motion. 23 on pulse fishing. It asks the government to do everything within its power to prevent a formal infringement procedure against the Netherlands. First of all, I would like to add to what I said in the first term. I indicated that there is no intergroup procedure at the moment. That is correct in itself, but I have just heard that there is a dialogue between the Commission and the Netherlands in the framework of a so-called pilot procedure, which is indeed a portal for an intergroup procedure. So that can follow from here. A letter was leaked about that. Mrs Van der Graaf referred to this, but I cannot respond to a leaked letter. But it may be, on the basis of the procedure that is indeed going on, that such an intergroup is supported. With the wording that is now before us, namely 'doing everything within its scope', there is no question of the government interrupting an intergroup procedure, if it were there, because that would be contrary to independence, and I can leave the 'judgement chamber' motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u504	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u505	This brings me to the end of the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u506	Thank you. That is what brought us to the end of this debate. I would like to thank the Prime Minister, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Members of Parliament and, in particular, the Members of the European Parliament who have also taken part in the debate today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-10.u507	We will vote on the motions tabled next week.
