ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-2.u1	The next item is, like every Tuesday, oral Question Time. We shall begin today with Mr Asscher's question to the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media, whom I would like to welcome. The question is about the call of school leaders not to replace sick teachers anymore. I call Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-2.u2	Madam President. This is a new low: a call not to replace teachers in sickness, at a time when there are also 500 children at home today, because there is no teacher in the classroom. We know that some 700 schools are considering responding to this request. It has dramatic consequences for the children being sent home. It has dramatic consequences for parents who are suddenly confronted with children at home, but also for teachers, who already have such a high workload and who will soon have to deal with divided classes, even larger groups. We saw a teacher on television who said: I'm going to work; I have a temperature of 39°C, but I don't want to abandon the children. You wouldn't approve of that in any other profession. Mr. Chairman. Think also of the parents in Zaandam who have their hands in their hair because of the four-day school week that was introduced there. All children should be able to be sure of a good teacher for the class. That is essential for our future. And that future is at stake now. I have the following questions for the Minister. One: what do you say to those children who are not allowed to demonstrate an afternoon for good climate policy, but who are going to miss days of school? Two: what do you say to the parents who have to take it and see that their children in this rich country do not receive the education they deserve? And what do you say to the teachers who are not going to strike for nothing on March 15th? They do that for their profession, for our children and for our future.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-2.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-2.u4	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Mr Asscher for his questions and for his involvement in this subject, which does indeed require a great deal from us. Your questions are very direct: what do you say to children, parents and teachers when it comes to the situation we are in? We'll say two things. First of all, we say that we have a great deal of understanding for the difficult task that school leaders face in order to arrange for the replacement at this time, also at a time when the flu is going around. Why? Because in the last year and a half, two years we have seen that the replacement pool has slowly but surely been emptied, because those who sat in it are now being offered permanent relations. That is of course very nice for them, but there will be no addition in the replacement pool. So that creates a lot of workload and a lot of problems for school leaders. That is an incredibly difficult task. Secondly, I would like to say that we are working very hard with each other, and I mean everyone involved in education, to provide for the deficits that exist, even in the long term, in order to counter them, including in terms of human resources. There's a lot of work going on. As you know, this cabinet invests 700 million in salaries and in reducing the workload. This has already been found in the past year with the teachers and also with the schools, and this has already brought its initial benefits in the sphere of professional teachers, teaching assistants and other facilities to reduce the working pressure of teachers. We are hard at work to see if we can seduce even more people towards education from the side stream, because that is sometimes necessary. I informed the Chamber fourteen days ago that 918 side-intromers of the money made available by the Cabinet for that guidance have become available. There are also people who have an appointment or who have ever obtained an authority, who are at home. It's being worked hard to get these people back to education. The Participation Fund does a lot of work in this regard. I reported to the Chamber fourteen days ago that it has a plan to escort 1,000 people to the schools and that some 340 people are already being escorted to the schools. That number has gone to more than 400 in 14 days. So we are doing what we can, but that is without prejudice to the fact that there are really big problems now and that there are sometimes situations where there are no temporary replacements for the replacement in case of illness. The school then has to find its way into it, with the ultimate option that classes are sometimes sent home for one day.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-2.u5	Mr. Chairman. We've seen a lot happening, and there's appreciation for that. We saw that last week, in the event of a political crisis, the coalition agreement could be broken open. This is a crisis in people's homes, in school class, in front of the teacher. My question is: is the Minister prepared, in addition to what is happening, to hold a crisis meeting, to invite all parties to this week, to bring them to the table without any preliminaries, to cooperate with all those involved in education, and that is where this minister in the cabinet should also come up with solutions, and to prevent what is happening now, namely that many hundreds, many thousands of children do not receive the education they deserve? Is the Minister prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-2.u6	I do not need this call, because we are very regularly at the table with all those involved. Last week I was there with all those involved in education, but also with the Participation Fund, with the UWV, and then we are right to have the highest representatives of the G4 also with representatives of the G4 which we support very closely, even in the financial sense, because that is where the problems sometimes come in great form. So we have very intensive contacts, including with the school leaders. These are the moments when we take stock of all the actions that are going on, and also look at new activities. And I can tell you that in the coming weeks new activities will come out, because thinking never stands still and we really think that we should take advantage of all the opportunities that may exist, and that, where possible, we should also create new opportunities. So the urgency and the feeling that we will have to put our shoulders against each other and fight hard for it is incredibly great. But that is without prejudice to the fact that, again, the replacement pool is empty. I think you recognize that. We are pleased that people in the replacement pool, who are always in a very uncertain situation, are now getting a bit more solid, because sometimes they also get some bigger appointments and permanent appointments. But if there is no addition in the short term, it is indeed a major problem in the event of a flu wave. And I also understand that school leaders sometimes want to relieve their teachers, because they cannot continue to receive this every time. So it's not an ideal situation, but there's a lot of hard work going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-2.u7	Thank you for that answer. There's a lot of consultation. I have no doubt of that either; of course, and rightly so. I don't doubt the good intention either. But my question was another one. What's happening now is the hour you. This is unseen. It threatens to affect a lot of people and a lot of teachers. My question to the Minister is: are you using this moment to go beyond the agreed frameworks, because there is reason to do so, because as a government you have to respond to what is happening in practice? Get them together and take the space to do whatever it takes to avert this. And that doesn't affect all the efforts that are there, for which I appreciate and understand. But more is needed, in the interests of the parents, of the teachers and of the children. That is my request.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-2.u8	Again, these consultations are quite frequent. And if it is necessary, at some point each party can say: we want to get back together, because we have an idea that we think we should get together. If Mr Asscher points out that sometimes we have to step outside the box, I say that this is already happening at the moment; look at the hand-out that went to the schools through the inspection and our ministry. And we understand that sometimes things don't go quite according to the rules we're setting now, because sometimes it's a whole emergency for schools, in which they have to act. And then you can start waving the rules, but of course you don't help them with that either. What we have to take care of with each other, of course, and I am regularly reminded of this by the standing committee of the Chambers, and I think it is right that we continue to monitor quality. That is, I think, also a given in everything we weigh. Even if we lead people from outside to education, that quality must be monitored. We'll deal with that as well. But be assured that if we can do something, and if we can do something, and if we can do something about it, we will be expecting substance in relation to the problems that exist today, to take advantage of those opportunities.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-2.u9	Thank you, Mr. Asscher. Mrs Westerveld, on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-2.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I hear the minister say the replacement pools are empty. But there are at least 83 000 people in this country with educational qualifications who are not in the classroom. These people indicate that they do not do so especially because the workload is too high. That's what the Ministry's own investigation shows. The Ministry, or a research office on behalf of the Ministry, has sometimes asked whether they would be willing to return to education. Two thirds of people then say that they would like to do so, but that something has to be done about the workload first. We're in a vicious circle. My question to the Minister is: what can you do to break this vicious circle, so that we can get some of those 83.000 people with a diploma back into education?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-2.u11	I have just indicated that the initiatives taken by this cabinet in the past year to promote the side influx are really starting to generate substantial numbers for the p.o. and for the vo. In addition, we see that there is now also a larger group of re-enterers available. Those are numbers that don't lie about it. Of course, we will continue to do so. I already told you we were sitting around the table with the UWV last week. That has indicated that it will, where possible, support us to reach out to those people who have authority, but of whom we often don't know exactly where they are right now, to try to meet them in the heart again, with: come on, this is a wonderful job; make yourself available. The cabinet has provided you know this: EUR 430 million for the workload. The first instalment has also been paid out at an accelerated rate. I see with my own eyes, but you will also see on your work visits that schools can take measures that are not otherwise possible. This also relieves the teachers, so that they also have more time for their primary tasks. We would also like to give them our heartfelt thanks for these feces. For example, if a professional teacher takes over gymnastics hours, they don't have to prepare them anymore. So they don't have to take the kids to the gym anymore. That time's gonna fall. They can spend them in a very good way, I think. Let me give you an example, but there are more examples.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-2.u12	It is always nice to see that when the PvdA is no longer in the government, it also wants to take measures to combat the shortage of teachers. My question to the Minister of this cabinet is: what would happen if the decommissioning of the chain clause in primary education were not to take place automatically? That is a proposal that we are going to vote on this afternoon, a proposal from the Labour Party. Can the Minister comment on this? What effects would that have on the possible replacement of sick staff?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-2.u13	I am always happy when the coalition and the opposition can think creatively together about what can happen to counter the teacher shortage. We can use all the power of thought. It is true: this chain clause has indeed been a very obstructive factor in the past, from the legislation that was there at the time. In the past year, we have already expressed our support for schools, especially for education, to deviate from that. I'm sure this will really give you room to hold on to raid forces for a longer time. That is a welcome addition to the broad package of measures we are taking together at this difficult time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-2.u14	Education is in crisis. A school like the Tamarinde in Zaandam is simply no longer able to fulfil the minimum legal task, namely to provide education five days a week. They simply can't find people. Now the minister has a group with which he talks about the shortage of teachers, but the teachers themselves have now left. Why? Because they say: the only thing that helps is more money for salaries and more money for reducing workload, more than what is already happening. How does the Minister intend to solve this problem if the coalition continues to speak out a loudly against more money for the teacher?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-2.u15	At the table are still representatives of teachers, but indeed no longer in full width, as was the case at the beginning. The amount made available by this cabinet for the reduction of workload has never been discussed. This was found to be a good amount, also in the context of what could happen to it. We have, of course, had a discussion about when it becomes available. That's what we've come up with. Then there is the specific situation where, in extreme cases, schools have to choose to send a group home. You know that it is stated in the manual that this can also be done seven times. Of course, it's not an ideal situation, but I can sometimes imagine a school saying: we've tried everything, but if we go on any longer, it's going to put an extreme burden on our other teachers. Although this is not a very nice solution, this can help to keep the situation manageable during this period of flu. So there is room for this to some extent, including from our laws and regulations. It's not ideal, but sometimes it can't be avoided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-2.u16	On work visits I also hear.... but I also get these messages mainly by e-mail within.... that there are all kinds of people available for education, but that they are not hired by government, or in such appointments that they do not want them at all, constantly in temporary and renewed temporary appointments. Is that a sound that the Minister also recognizes and is this subject being discussed with, for example, employers in education? Because I think there is still an important task there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-2.u17	The employers are even primarily responsible for this task, but we understand that they need support, so we try to maximise it. With regard to the replacement pool and its emptying, I always have to be careful what I say, because every situation is different again, but we know that there was sometimes a lot of back and forth with replacements, that sometimes people didn't realize that there was a problem coming and that these replacements were suddenly gone. If they had been offered a permanent job at the time, they might have been able to hold them for their school. But again, there are also situations where things have been very different. Good human resources policy, which employers are responsible for and which is not always equally well developed in education, is crucial, even when we see how deficits can increase in the future. Then we really have to act.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-2.u18	Thank you.
