ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-4.u1	The next item is NATO. I would like to welcome the Secretary of Defense. The Minister of Defence will replace the Minister of Foreign Affairs. I understand that the Secretary of Defense also conducted the general consultation. I give the floor to Mrs Karabulut on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-4.u2	Good morning, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to start this special day with a gift to the coalition. The parties D66, CDA, ChristenUnion and VVD have had confidence in the future, when they are still actively committed to a nuclear-free world, because the risks of proliferation, nuclear weapons, are very high. And rightly so. There's a huge armament going on. The United States alone wants to invest 1,000 billion in the modernisation of nuclear weapons in the coming decades. To take away any misunderstanding, these are weapons of mass destruction. Trump has them, Netanyahu has them, Putin has them, Modi has them. They all have a button and that button can be pressed. Within a few minutes, part of humanity will be destroyed. It is right that 80% of the Dutch population are against nuclear weapons. Everyone wants disarmament, but nothing happens. Hence the proposal. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that nuclear disarmament can contribute to global security, especially in Europe;]] [[whereas there are American nuclear weapons in Europe;]] [[calls on the Government to obtain support for a disarmament plan with the commitment of European countries to send US nuclear weapons back to the United States, while at the same time moving Russia to nuclear disarmament,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Karabulut, Mr Ploumen and Mr Van Ojik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28676-329]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-4.u3	Given our shared wishes and the present that we can give to the children today, I naturally expect broad support from colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you. Mr Koopmans can't help but react. Mr. Koopmans, good morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-4.u5	Good morning, Mr. Chairman. And good morning to Mrs Karabulut, too. She dared me for a while anyway. For the sake of clarity, because I understand the pacifist commitment of the Socialist Party...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-4.u6	Always, Mr. Koopmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-4.u7	Do I understand the motion that the Socialist Party believes that these nuclear weapons should go to the United States, but that the United States should have nuclear weapons as long as other countries have nuclear weapons?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-4.u8	No, the Socialist Party, my party, is fighting for a nuclear-free world. That has been the case for several decades. Nuclear weapons are weapons of mass destruction for humanity. We know about Hiroshima and Nagasaki. Everyone who has spoken to the next of kin and sees the footage knows what nuclear weapons are. I know Mr Koopmans knows that too. But I also know that Mr Koopmans and other parties that are part of this coalition have been saying for years that they are striving for a nuclear-free world and want to make an active commitment to it. For them, crossing the border at once, so two-sided disarmament, is extremely important. I also know it's stuck now. No steps are being taken, because on the one hand the US and on the other hand Russia and other nuclear weapons states continue to spend taxpayers' money on the development and modernisation of weapons of mass destruction. That is why we want to offer you comfort and to propose that those American nuclear weapons be returned to Russia at the same time as asking them what they can and want to do about disarmament. We therefore ask you to develop a plan for disarmament and then, of course, to submit it to the Americans.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-4.u9	Thank you, Mrs Karabulut. I'm sorry, Mr. Koopmans. This discussion was held in detail in the general consultation. It's a VAO. I see you're not entirely convinced, but you won't get a chance to make that right. I now give the floor to Mr Van Ojik on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-4.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Karabulut has tabled this motion on my behalf. I do not have much to add to what she has said. I think it is incredibly important that we use the upcoming moment of modernising nuclear weapons stored in Europe to break that negative spiral of increasing nuclear threat that we are currently in. As Mrs Karabulut rightly pointed out, these three parties are taking a step forward. This motion has been signed by three parties who may have argued for unilateral action in the past. I certainly do not rule out the possibility that we may do so again in the future, but this motion, as Mrs Karabulut said, involves simultaneous and equal crossing. That is why I would like to join in her appeal to others, especially the coalition, but perhaps others from outside the coalition, to use this outstretched hand. I am pleased that Mr Koopmans is already prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-4.u11	Unfortunately, I welcome Mr Van Ojik's invitation to talk about this. Do I understand him correctly that he is saying that Europe needs to get rid of nuclear weapons while we talk to Russia about what Russia is doing? Europe must therefore disarm unilaterally, but Russia can still keep those nuclear weapons. Isn't that very dangerous? Isn't that naive? Isn't that one-sided and therefore dangerous for Dutch people?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-4.u12	If that were to be the focus of the negotiations that the motion calls for, it would indeed be dangerous. If the commitment were to abandon our nuclear weapons, but if Russia were to keep its nuclear weapons, the world would not necessarily be safer, certainly not with us. So that's not the bet. The commitment is to use the removal of nuclear weapons from Europe and from the Netherlands to talk to Russia and perhaps others about the gesture that must be theirs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-4.u13	I was wondering if you were ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-4.u14	I was done, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-4.u15	Thank you, Mr. Van Ojik. Nuclear weapons will be discussed extensively on 19 December. I now give the floor to Mr Koopmans. Don't tell Mrs. Karabulut. I'll be watching you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-4.u16	It's Saint Nicholas, chairman. I'd like to give you that gift. Mr. Chairman. NATO is now 70 years old and has made a huge contribution to our security and to our freedom in those 70 years. Certainly, there is a possibility of criticism of NATO. That criticism is also necessary. But we'll have to deal with that. We should not now call for unilateral steps, such as those I will not mention, for example. We must ensure that NATO has been modernised. I ask the Minister whether NATO is currently working enough on modernisation, including in the context of modern warfare. I would like to say: let us celebrate the existence of NATO, let us strengthen it, let us not break it down. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-4.u17	Thank you, Mr. Koopmans. Mrs. Karabulut, that's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-4.u18	One more question, though. The VVD believes it is important to disarm each other. Does the VVD still consider it important for disarmament to take place? If so, why do you not support the proposal we are making here on behalf of a number of left-wing parties?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-4.u19	May I begin by thanking Mrs Karabulut for giving me the gift that I can now discuss with her? I appreciate that. Nuclear weapons are terrible, they're horrible, and the world would be better off if they didn't exist, but they do exist. Then we cannot say unilaterally: let us put them away and hope that our enemies may show a little mercy. So the proposal made by Mrs Karabulut to the left only weakens us. That's bad. That is why the VVD will certainly not support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-4.u20	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-4.u21	It may be up to me, or perhaps it is up to today, perhaps Mr Koopmans is experiencing this as an extra exciting day, but this proposal is not one-sided. The proposal says: let us make a plan to dispose of the American nuclear weapons. We can make this plan together with other countries that have American nuclear weapons in Europe. Other countries that do not have nuclear weapons should also be allowed to do so. People who have done a great deal about disarmament here in the past can put together a committee. They can go to Russia, present the plan and see what the Russians can do at the same time. This will enable them to launch a disarmament initiative. Could Mr Koopmans actually respond to the proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-4.u22	Mr President, thank you for giving Mrs Karabulut a second interruption, which I did not just receive. But I'm only grateful for that. I think that is a good thing, because then I can make it clear once again that we must keep the Dutch, Europe and the world safe and that unilateral steps are naive. In addition, Mrs Karabulut's proposal is contradictory internally. She says we have to send the guns to America, but she doesn't dare say that this means that America must be able to keep them, because our enemies, the Russians and others, have them. Under Mrs Karabulut's proposal, they won't just give it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-4.u23	That's why I actually only allowed one question. You are absolutely right, because Mrs Karabulut has been given a present twice. Anyway, with that you could also give your answer, which you would have liked to do. That's nice, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-4.u24	Mr President, I am grateful to you. It's Saint Nicholas.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-4.u25	Mrs. Karabulut has sat down. I'm going to see Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-4.u26	I would very much like to give Mr Koopmans another chance. I can't help but see that he shoots a bit into the traditional reflex, like "it's coming from the left, so it's probably not right." That's really weird, because if you read the motion, you can really only read it in one way. You must read in a very unwelcome way, if you want to see a step towards unilateral disarmament in this. So I have the following question to ask Mr Koopmans: if you read this, how can you say that this makes Europe more unsafe and simply leaves the Russian nuclear arsenal in place?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-4.u27	That is precisely why I asked Mr Van Ojik, when he was standing here a few minutes ago, how he sees it. Because the motion says that nuclear weapons should actually be brought out of Europe, that they should go to America and that we should talk to Russia about what they are doing in the meantime. Even if the nuclear weapons are from Europe and Russia says they're going to reduce them, then Russia still has them and Europe doesn't have them. This means unilateral disarmament, despite the fine words of Mr Van Ojik. Unilateral disarmament is dangerous.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-4.u28	Thank you, Mr. Koopmans. Then I'll go to the minister. She can react right away. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-4.u29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And good morning on this very special day, as Mrs Karabulut and you rightly said. I would like to make a few comments, looking at the motion as it stands. I would like to say that it is of course a good thing that we are thinking together about what we can do. That is the point Mr Van Ojik raised. In itself, it's a good thing that we do that with each other. It is true that the coalition agreement states that we are actively committed to a nuclear-free world, but it also states that we are doing so in an alliance framework. That's just the part Mrs Karabulut didn't read. I understand that she is looking at parts of the coalition agreement, but we are looking at the whole thing together. In itself, it's a good thing we're talking about this. This VAO follows the AO in preparation for the NATO Leaders Meeting, which we had the day before yesterday and yesterday. On 19 December, our last Chamber day, there will indeed be another debate on the AIV opinion on nuclear weapons. In that AIV opinion, the cabinet has expressed its sincere support for the withdrawal of all Russian and American sub-strategic nuclear weapons from all over Europe, from the Atlantic to the Ural Mountains, in order to contribute effectively to full disarmament steps which must be mutually verifiable and irreversible. The latter seems important to me; that is what this is about, otherwise you will end up in this one-sided situation. I would like to say that we must not forget that Russia still has nearly 2,000 sub-strategic nuclear weapons, significantly more than the number of US nuclear weapons in Europe. Russia has kept these weapons out of the nuclear negotiations so far. So we have to be realistic, looking at where we are now, but that does not relieve us of the duty to commit ourselves to this. I agree entirely with everyone who has spoken in your Chamber. That is why we have chosen, together with the United States and allies, to identify opportunities for disarmament steps, looking at those sub-strategic nuclear weapons. Mrs Karabulut and Mr Koopmans have both raised the issue of the New START Treaty in the AO. In the motion, I only miss that ally framework, the ally unit. So we do have a plan, but we do it together in the alliance. That's why I have to discourage this motion. We will discuss it further in the debate that is to come. Now we cannot support this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-4.u30	But I think the Minister will agree with me that we need to do something else, as the purpose of the cabinet is disarmament and confidence in the future. We are talking here about real nuclear weapons, the weapons of mass destruction of all major powers. Then you can't hide behind any ally. This issue is not about NATO, the US or Russia, but about our security. In order to respond precisely to the concerns of the cabinet and the government parties, we are talking about a plan to be drawn up on mutual disarmament.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-4.u31	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-4.u32	We therefore expect Russia to take steps, just like the United States. Then, of course, the Minister will discuss the implementation of this plan with other countries, but also with the United States. Is the Minister prepared to do so? If not, what will the Minister do? Doesn't it mean that the Minister will go along with the armament?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-4.u33	Clear. I'm going to see the Minister. You've put in a really long interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-4.u34	That's true, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-4.u35	I said that we are not prepared to do so. We want to make these plans only in the spirit of an ally. We can talk about that in the future AO. The use of the cabinet is well indicated. I've indicated that we're actually very close to each other on parts. We want to take steps. Now Mrs Karabulut says that we are doing nothing, but my colleague Mr Blok sent a letter to the Chamber on 25 November last in preparation for that AO. According to the letter, that would take place on December 12th, but it was moved to December 19th. I have read through that letter and I have seen the points where the Minister looks forward to what is happening. For example, we are Vice-President of the Five-Year Review Conference of the NPT. That's pretty nice and good, too. So there's a lot of steps in that letter. I can just imagine that letter, which has just been sent, is getting involved in the AA. We'll talk there. That was not the commitment of the ministerial preparation for this NATO VAO. Our stakes are clear. Joint task force is at the top of the list. We insisted on that, too. We have indeed introduced the points of a new start, which were discussed in this AO.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-4.u36	It's about our safety. It's about disarmament. I think it is very easy for the Minister to get rid of it by hiding behind that word every time. Then I would like to ask the Minister what letter in this motion, in this proposal, is not good and does not fit in with the joint effort to achieve disarmament. What letter? Then explain that to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-4.u37	I don't think it's entirely my job to write a motion with the Chamber. I've indicated what we didn't approve of. This motion states 'that European countries should make a plan'. The cabinet doesn't approve of that. We believe that we should take steps in an alliance framework. Of course, we can talk about this further, but that means that this assessment is "dissuade'.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-4.u38	Finally, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-4.u39	But this motion does not prevent the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Foreign Affairs from consulting with any ally. This is about taking the initiative to achieve disarmament. This isn't a boarded-up motion. This is: take the initiative, do something, because it's about our safety. The Americans will notice less of it than we do. We're targets. They will continue with arms and so will Russia. They've gone crazy. Then there must be a party, namely our country, together with other countries that say: we are going to take the initiative. Of course, you will also consult with your allies. There's no prohibition on that, not at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-4.u40	No, there is no ban on that either, and of course we do. But Mrs Karabulut is now making a bit of a caricature of the commitment that the Netherlands shows. We wrote letters about that. We are indeed active on the road. We have responded very seriously to the AIV report. We agree it's about our safety. I have indicated to you what it says in Russia and what it is and that we should not do anything unilaterally. That's what we're talking about. We're taking initiative. Mrs Karabulut was talking for a moment when I gave the first part of my answer, but you, Mr President, heard it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-4.u41	A brief remark, but not content, because I think you are really opposed to each other. That wouldn't help, even if you're standing here for an hour.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-4.u42	The only thing I find regrettable, and the most important point, is the following. We do not want to disarm unilaterally. We meet the government and the minister continues to hide behind the allies. She continues to say, like Mr Koopmans, that it is one-sided. It's not that. I would actually like to call on the Minister to consider this and to discuss it very well in the cabinet, so that a step can be taken. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Anders kan ik niet anders dan constateren dat het een dode letter is in het regeerakkoord.]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-4.u43	We'll have another debate soon. After all, I can only take this under consideration if Mrs Karabulut is prepared to hold the motion until the debate has taken place.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-4.u44	Mrs. Karabulut, are you holding the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-4.u45	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Let me do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-4.u46	At the request of Mrs Karabulut, I propose her motion (28676, No. 329), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 329/1999 of the European Parliament and of the Council: OJ L 329, 3.12.1999; Bull. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-4.u47	That also brings us to the end of this VAO. I thank the Minister.
