ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u1	The next item is the continuation of the examination of the legislative proposal 35233, Amendment of the Fertilisers Act in connection with the implementation of the sixth action programme Nitrates Directive.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u2	I give the floor to the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u3	Good evening and thank you very much for having me in your Chamber. It is an unusual evening on Monday and, more particularly, in the last week of the year, at least the parliamentary week; let us put it this way. Thank you also for allowing me to stand here because you have been willing to deal with this law quickly. The bill hasn't been here that long. I will come back later to specific questions about the pace of the law, as some Members have asked questions about it. It is very important, and therefore thank you again, that we can deal with the bill before the end of this year. If the legislative proposal is adopted, it also has significance for the derogation that the European Commission will grant to the Netherlands or not. It is also a subject that always concerns the moods, the manure policy. We have seen in the past period that the subject is not only a subject of concern here, but also outside this Chamber. We have seen some examples of this in recent months. I also understand that, because the legislation and regulations on manure often have an impact on farming and also a considerable complexity. A number of Members have already referred to this. We do this not for nothing, of course, but to ensure that our water quality is protected and improved. That is ultimately in the interests of all of us. In this context, in December 2017, I sent your Chamber the Sixth Action Programme for the Nitrates Directive and the Action Programme was also submitted to the European Commission. Mrs Kluit mentioned it: that was indeed about my maiden speech as a minister, and I immediately had to go into the depths of a very technical directive. How wonderful is it that Mrs Kluit herself has now given her maiden speech on this subject, for which the congratulations are due. This action programme also addresses the requirements of the Nitrates Directive for the Netherlands. Today we are talking about the legislative proposal implementing part of the measures contained in the Sixth Nitrates Directive Action Programme. It concerns the fixing of the manure production ceilings. The aim of these ceilings is to prevent the production of manure from becoming too high and to create risks to water quality. For the European Commission, it is also important that no solution is found for production in the Netherlands in sales in neighbouring countries, as this could lead to additional environmental risks abroad. Since 2006, successive derogation decisions have set a total ceiling for phosphate and nitrogen production of livestock farming in the Netherlands. That ceiling corresponds to phosphate and nitrogen production in 2002. That's something that's been memorized. At the time, it was agreed that any major livestock sector would not produce more phosphate and nitrogen than in 2002. In this case, these are the dairy, pig and poultry sectors. These are the sectoral ceilings. After exceeding the sector ceiling of dairy farming in 2015 and the Dutch total ceiling in 2016, it is very important for the European Commission that the Netherlands itself lays down and secures the ceilings. It has therefore been agreed in the Sixth Action Programme of the Nitrates Directive that the Netherlands will set these ceilings in the Fertilisers Act. This is also the condition for the Commission's decision on derogation for 2018 and 2019. If you look back, it is actually a commitment in the law of ceilings that have been in existence since 2006. It is also good and valuable to mention that the phosphate and nitrogen production of each sector is below its ceiling. This change in the law therefore has no material impact on the sector at the moment. There is therefore no need to intervene with this bill in manure production. The bill is really meant to ensure that from now on, in the longer term, we will not have the situation we experienced in 2015 and 2016. I think that is in the interests of all of us, because who does not remember the incredibly painful interventions that we then had to do to ensure that we would end up with dairy farming under the ceiling? This bill therefore provides the basis for this. As mentioned above, the entry into force of the legislative proposal on 1 January will also be necessary in order to continue to fulfil the obligations of the conditions laid down in the derogating decision. If the Netherlands does not comply with those conditions, there is a risk that the derogation will not be granted for the next two years. The European Commission has informed us that they are looking at three cases in order to qualify for an extension. Firstly, the implementation of the measures contained in the Sixth Action Programme, for which consideration and adoption of this legislative proposal is therefore very important. Secondly, the speedy implementation of the enforcement strategy. There was a lot of talk about that too. Thirdly, the development of water quality. On these three aspects, the Commission will assess whether the extension of the derogation is reasonable. Contrary to previous years, the preliminary results of the National Meetnet Effects Manure Policy for 2018 show an increase in average nitrate concentrations among derogation farms, but this is not common practice. In recent years we have seen that among the derogation companies water quality was better than among non-derogation companies. This may also take away part of the picture that the derogation would lead to a deterioration in water quality. That's not the image we see. We have also looked at how nitrate concentrations can now be higher. In general, we have seen that with the drought in 2017 and 2018 those concentrations were also higher. Those were really extreme weather conditions. But we will go through the necessary steps in the Nitrate Committee. That's what we're being asked to do. That is a process that is now under way. We are having discussions with the Nitrates Committee and with the Commission on the extension of the derogation, although at the moment I cannot indicate exactly when this clarification on the extension will take place. This also has to do with the fact that these talks have started rather late because of the change in the Commission. That actually pushed everything back pretty much. But we're in constructive consultation right now. All our efforts are aimed at ensuring that this clarity comes as soon as possible, because we understand very well that it is very important for farmers to know. Mr. Chairman. I just wanted to answer the questions of the various Members in a row. So I don't have any special cubes, but I'm going to do it in order of the speakers. There will occasionally be some overlap, but I try to serve Members as well as possible in answering the questions they have asked. The first speaker was from Mr Van Pareren, whom I would also like to congratulate warmly on the maiden speech he made. Again, what better subject for a maiden speech can you have than agriculture? That's a wonderful subject. He is already asking a sort of fundamental question: do the farmers matter for the cabinet? Yes, the farmers certainly matter. They are of great importance for the production of the food we consume every day and also for the quality of life in our rural areas. Today, we are discussing the implementation of a legislative proposal that could lead to an extension of the derogation. This derogation, too, is incredibly important for agriculture and livestock farming, because it also brings economic value to dairy farming in particular. The fact that we have that bill here already shows that we have a high interest in these farmers, because that way we will also ensure that they can continue to operate. Mr Van Pareren asks: why is the sector not being discussed and listened to? Well, I can tell you that I started my day with the farmers this morning. That was breakfast, too. That wasn't last minute, by the way. It wasn't the first conversation I had with the Agricultural Collective. It was the third conversation I had myself, and in between there were several official talks. This morning's conversation took place in a good atmosphere. The Agricultural Collective will now also inform its supporters of the outcome of the discussions we have had. As far as I'm concerned, it's not the last time we talk. I think it's good to keep that conversation going just in everything that comes towards them, because the place at that table is also the place where you can take care of things. I understand very well that there are emotions and that they want to express those emotions. If you want to get further, you have to keep having the conversation. Then the question is, why are we coming so late with the bill? Because that also gives so much uncertainty for the farmers. As has already been said, the legislative proposal has already been announced in the Sixth Nitrates Directive Action Programme. We established that in December 2017. Next, the legislative proposal that results from this was drafted and publicly consulted in the summer of 2018. There'll be some time left before you've finished a bill and consulted. Responses to this consultation have been received again. We then processed it again. Last June, the bill was brought before the House of Representatives. The pace of treatment that has taken place there is ultimately up to the Chamber. However, as I have said, I am very grateful to this Chamber for being able to deal with this bill today. Then there is a question about the generic discount. The question is why we are actually taking this measure, which is a better alternative and when we are actually going to apply these measures. The way we deal with the generic discount has also been a very important topic of discussion in the House of Representatives. That was also a very important point in the consultation. We actually had a lot of reactions to that. On the basis of the consultation and treatment in the House of Representatives, amendments have been made to the law, because the generic discount is really the last resort. I hope I never have to apply this law, because if you do, we have missed a lot of steps before that. Again, it is really a means of which you, with the images of 2016 and 2017 on the retina, hope that you will not join. That's why we've put in all kinds of steps to prevent us from getting to the generic discount. Not only did I do that, but the House of Representatives also amended all kinds of things. For example, measures such as the adaptation of the feed track and the removal of animal rights in the event of transfer. The latter means that there is no immediate reduction, but that a number of things are already being done in the skimming to prevent the generic discount from taking place. An amendment has also been accepted and thus incorporated into the law that consideration of such a generic reduction should include the total volume of production under the national total ceilings. In short, we have introduced a lot of bumps before we can get to that generic discount at all. I think it is also important to ensure that we do not ideally need to use the latter. How is abuse prevented?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u4	I also asked a question about this and it may then be dealt with immediately. My question was: when do we start with all these other measures? When there is an overrun or when there is an imminent overrun?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u5	No, that's what we start with when there's a threat of overrun. At the moment when there is a threat of overrun, we need to look at whether a skimming or any other measure is necessary to reduce phosphate and nitrogen so that the ultimate remedy should not be used. You don't do that when it's already exceeded, because then we're already in a bad situation. You do that when it's gonna threaten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u6	I'm just trying to sketch that in the timeline. Every quarter we get numbers, so we see that coming at some point. Let's say halfway through the year and then we have six months to take action. Then it's the end of the year. Then we hear six months later that it did not work and we have still exceeded the total ceiling. At what time will the generic discount be used? Is that right when we see it six months after the end of that year? So we're gonna go straight ahead because we've done the rest before? Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u7	Indeed, we get quarterly figures from the CBS to determine where we are in relation to the phosphate ceiling and the nitrogen ceiling. At the end of the year, in my experience, it is usually a few months after the end of the previous year, the final determination of production was made in the previous year. The CBS then has all the data complete and can finally tell what the ceiling has been. During that year, you can see whether you're up against that or not. Those are the moments when we are also proposing other measures or decisions to take action with the Chamber, which is also included in the legislative proposal. Suppose that is not entirely possible and we finally find a few months after the end of the calendar year that we have gone over it, then I must refer an AMvB to your Chamber which decides how such a reduction can be made. That is in the year after the overrun took place.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u8	Mrs Kluit, your third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u9	What worries me a little about this timeline is that we find that there is an overrun after which a number of steps are taken, but they are not certain. That brings with it a huge negotiation. I have the suspicion that not everyone in this house or across the street will go along with that. For farmers, that means a great deal of uncertainty. It is not better to clarify precisely by saying: at the time of the detection of the overrun, we are going to use the discount so that this whole period can be avoided with a lot of uncertainty, whatever we now see with nitrogen and what is difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u10	Then it is important to note that the amount of phosphate and nitrogen can change every quarter. I've just indicated that if you see that a summer is very dry, this can have an effect on the amount of nitrogen. I do not know in advance how dry the summer will be and what kind of figures will come out of it. So I do need these final figures to remedium that ultimum once again, and I hope that it will not ever be possible to use it. In advance I'll see if it's necessary to do business on the railroad, if we're really going for a long time. Is it necessary to consider whether we should do a slightly higher percentage in the skimming process? I'll have to submit that to the Chamber here, too. In order to put such a hard instrument into effect, you must also be sure that those ceilings have been exceeded, and I cannot see that until the end of the calendar year. It takes the CBS a few months to establish these final figures.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u11	Mrs Kluit, one last brief comment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u12	I am not so much concerned with the moment when it is clear that the only thing we can do is the generic discount and that we will not be negotiating all kinds of measures. But it's clear, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u13	The law is the law, so I have to abide by the law. The law also includes.................................................................................................................................................................................................. That is something we should also involve. I have to pull all these data together and then submit an AMvB on what kind of discount would eventually, but hopefully not, come out of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u14	I would like to ask the Minister about this discount as an ultimate remedy, or you said it even stronger: as an ultimate, ultimate, ultimate means, in my words. I was going to ask the Minister, why does it have to be in that law? Is it confidence that you should turn around: the distrust so great that this is needed as a kind of stick behind the door? Can't you just make sure the case is in order in individual cases?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u15	I have just outlined the history of the legislative proposal and in particular that the Commission has insisted that we ensure this in our own national legislation. She said that she should always point out to the Netherlands that it does not comply with its own rules. That's the background to the fact that it's now in a law. The Commission has said that this is also important if we are to maintain the derogation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u16	If you say 'the Commission', I mean the European Commission, the EU, which determines that. I would like to ask: can we, as the Netherlands, decide for ourselves how we deal with each other? Then we don't need to see what they think, do we? We are mature enough to decide ourselves, with each other, with the farmers, with the stakeholders, but also with the government, how we are going to do that, how we are going to maintain it, how we are going to maintain it? Surely there's no need to let that go to such a peak that it gets out of hand? We have to prevent that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u17	I very much agree with Mr Van Pareren. I don't want it to get to that peak either. Hence all the steps in the bill to prevent that. I note, however, that the Commission has said that the Netherlands had that in its own hands and has exceeded that at times. They didn't act on that right away. The Commission said that it should draw our attention to the fact that we would go over it. We don't have to adopt this law. If you say: should we adopt this law, we cannot otherwise, you could technically say that without this law we should also be able to reach good agreements. I note, however, that the Commission will say that it is uncertain whether the Netherlands will still keep its own commitments. This is an important factor in determining whether a new derogation may be granted. And then I find the risk very high, also because we know that we are now under the ceilings. We know there's a lot of work going on to stay below those ceilings. Then the material isn't something that hits someone right now. But if we don't, we do know that the possibility that it's going to hit a lot of dairy farmers is very big.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u18	Van Pareren, a third?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is indicated that there is a derogation, which has been detected at a certain point in time. It has been noted that we did not react quickly enough. Now we are in 2019 and in a few weeks we will be in 2020. There's a learning curve in it anyway. We're not a society that says we're gonna try again, are we? Is that supposed to be so intense?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u20	If we learn with each other, you ask. History shows that we do not always learn from the things that have gone wrong in the past, but that is a very general statement. The Commission says: guarantee that for itself. Just make sure that we, as the European Commission, do not have to tell the Netherlands every time that you have to abide by your own rules and agreements. The Commission also says that it must be done now, because if you do not, we will consider how seriously the Netherlands is dealing with this; then we do not know whether we can maintain that derogation. I see that we are currently under the ceilings. So materially, this bill isn't doing anything right now. I really want us to keep it that way. This is one of those laws that I hope I never have to implement or apply. But at the same time I say: what is the problem of recording it? Materially, it doesn't cause any problems. It helps us to maintain the derogation and that interest is very great for all those farmers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u21	I'll come back to it anyway. Maybe it's pure theoretical, that's what we all hope. In the original proposal, which brought you into the internet consultation, the generic discount was much stricter than it is now. You then weakened it on the basis of the participation. I believe that the House of Representatives has once again laid a layer over it. How far would you have to go not to get that generic discount? Does this include, for example, buying up rights? When does this emergency item........ take
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u22	The law contains a number of steps that need to be taken before you can reach a generic discount. That was the debate we just had. First the feed trail, then the skimming of rights in trade. That's what we're doing now. It could also be increased to a higher percentage at that time. Then it doesn't immediately lead to a generic discount, but eventually rights are removed, which makes you fall a little below your ceiling. The House of Representatives said that we should consider the total production of nitrogen and phosphates in determining whether a reduction should be made. These are all elements that do not immediately lead to a generic discount, but can contribute to the effect, namely that we come below the ceilings. My goal is not to get a generic discount. On the contrary. My goal is to stay below the ceilings, because that is what we have agreed and we must stick to it. There are several ways to get there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u23	I understand. I'm talking about buying up rights. This afternoon we talked about that as well. How did these rights come about? Those rights have been granted and can then be bought out, while they were first granted free of charge. Can you approximate how many rights you would have to buy up in order to arrive at a circular agriculture, also desired by you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u24	The idea that you can only come to a circular agriculture at a time when you have fewer rights is a debate in itself. We can have that with each other, because there are more ways we can do that. However, we have now opened up a system for the recovery of pigs. Pig farmers can now sign up for that. In doing so, rights are effectively withdrawn from the market. So they can't be reactivated in another place. In my view, it is not easy to discuss whether I should take rights out to become circular. You can't just cut it with scissors and say, "That's enough." Then there is the question of whether rights can also be bought to get below the ceiling. That could be technically possible, but we also see other possibilities that can bring you down. However, the bill states that compensation can also be given if there is an individual disproportionate burden. So you get a bit of a reverse situation. There'll be a discount, but you can be compensated for that. Those are the existing variants on the theme. But you can't say there's so many rights out or anything like that. I find that very generic.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u25	Mr. Arrowman, the third.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u26	The third and last. I will come back to it tomorrow, because the debate will actually continue in a slightly different way tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u27	I would like to make one more point: it is true that the rights, in particular phosphate rights but also animal rights, have not been given. In the case of phosphate rights, therefore, we also had to go through the state aid procedure, because this may indirectly result in state aid. That was also known at the time that we were going to introduce that system. That debate was held with this Chamber at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u28	The Minister has correctly outlined that the generic discount will only take place after a few other measures. But they also have something generic in them. Out of my mind: that was about the feed track, the skimming or the total size. They're kind of generic, too. In my term, I asked whether this could be done at a slightly different level, perhaps in parts of the sector or something like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u29	In Mr Schalk's speech, I heard in particular the question of what happens if you keep too many animals in relation to what you are actually allowed to keep. The problem is very often that we do not know what we do not know. The entrepreneurs do not come to us in advance to say: by the way, I have more animals than I can actually keep. You have to know the situation almost at individual level, per company. That is very complicated in terms of feasibility. I agree with Mr Schalk that there is some genericity, that is a word? It is in the measures we are taking. But these are measures that we already know, for example with regard to feed or creaming. That is what we are doing at the moment in dairy farming. So we see that these measures are relatively feasible and do not lead to a very disproportionate burden on the sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u30	May I suggest that the Minister take a few meters in her response?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u31	I'm gonna try. Mr. Chairman. A question has been asked about the abuse, but we have already said a few things about it in the debate. The same goes for the railroad. I just answered a couple of questions. Mr Van Pareren has asked a number of questions that see a little bit more on the legislative proposal that we are going to deal with tomorrow, on nitrogen. He's asked when we're gonna deploy the feed trail. I think we will be able to talk about this a little bit more tomorrow, but our commitment is to put it into practice by 2020, precisely because we can use this to fill that nitrogen register. This also enables other activities, for example in construction. Then there is the question of the threshold. This point is also included in the bill that we are discussing tomorrow. Are we committed to a realistic threshold? Yes. That's what it's really focused on. I asked for information from the Council of State on the possibility of introducing a threshold. The Council of State has stated that it is possible, but I must make sure that a national threshold at no place in a Natura 2000 site will lead to a deterioration. This is more difficult with a national threshold than with a regional threshold. I will be sending a letter to your Chamber in a moment, but I can tell you - it says that the cabinet has chosen to carry out a regional threshold further. We believe that this will make it possible, together with the threshold, to do so in a way that will best ensure that this does not lead to a deterioration of these Natura 2000 sites. Then a question was asked about the calculation method. We have set up a Commission to measure and calculate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u32	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u33	May I suggest that the Minister take a few meters? She'll answer the questions at the end of this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u34	We have set up a Commission to measure and calculate the way nitrogen deposition is now measured and to learn from the systems and how they apply them in Germany and Denmark. The committee will also advise on the possibilities of refining those measurements. They will present the first recommendations in February, which will be further developed thereafter. In June, the Committee will deliver an opinion on the implementation of the improvements. Then I come to the question of why we have an excessive amount of EU regulation. Can't the Netherlands without it? Mr Van Pareren asked that question. These rules apply uniformly to the whole of Europe with regard to nitrate and nature. They have, of course, been translated into the specific circumstances in the Member States. This is to ensure that we also keep the water quality in order, for example in the case of nitrate, and that we also maintain the nature goals and values in nature. It may be possible to be more flexible in detail. I have a discussion with the European Commission in which we will see if we could have some more options for this. Mr Van Pareren's final question on Natura 2000 was when the errors in the directives were transposed. It is not so much that errors have been transposed into national legislation in relation to the obligation set out in the directives. However, we are looking at how we should deal with this precisely, for example in the designation and modification of the targets, under the Birds and Habitats Directives. But again, that is also part of tomorrow's debate. The results of the analysis will also be available in the course of 2020. Then I come to Mrs Faber's questions. Since I've already given answers to some questions, I'm trying to get through it a little smoothly. Mrs Faber says that sector ceilings are being applied when we should look at the national ceilings. Her position is that we are now going beyond what the European Commission is asking us to do. I have just explained that since 2006 we have had to maintain the overall ceiling in all these different derogations decisions. That's just in there. The European Commission considers it very important that the Netherlands lays down and secures these ceilings. The derogation decision we have received from the Commission states that it must be sectoral. That is what we are doing now, and that is why we have recorded it in this way. That is also fair, because imagine that a sector says: I have a national ceiling, but I see that they are underneath the pig farming, so I can continue to produce a lot of manure and such. Then you get an inequality between those sectors that isn't fair. Then one will take the other's space. That is why there are also sectors which are certainly committed to defining this sector in order to prevent one from taking up the space of the other. I understand that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u35	Now the Minister assumes that certain sectors would be unfair. I don't really want to assume that. But what's really important is this. If we go beyond sectoral ceilings, but we do not go beyond the overall ceiling, then we can still just get a derogation. Isn't that the right thesis?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u36	The European Commission has asked us to set sectoral ceilings. We all have to stay below a national ceiling, but they want us to set sectoral ceilings. This has been a requirement in the derogating decision: to fix an sich. This is also what is included in the Sixth Nitrates Action Programme. We have now translated that into this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u37	Capturing is something other than crossing. So again my question: if you only exceed the sector ceiling but not the total, will we or will we not have a derogation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u38	The derogation is linked to the actions listed in the Sixth Nitrates Action Programme. The action it contains is that the sectoral ceilings are laid down in the law. The derogation is therefore linked to the measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u39	Mrs Faber, the third.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u40	But surely the Minister can't claim that capturing is the same as exceeding?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u41	The Commission has asked for various things from us. For example, she asked for an enforcement strategy. You can say, that has nothing to do with overrun. She said that the sector ceilings should be laid down in the law. She also said that water quality must be in order. Those are matters that are not so much about an overrun as they are all conditional on the derogation. Therefore, the derogation does not only refer to overruns, but also to measures to prevent them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u42	Mrs Faber, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u43	Mr President, I understand that you want to speed things up, but I would appreciate it if I could just get an answer. I understand that there are several issues involved in the derogation, but exceeding a sector ceiling while not exceeding the overall ceiling is not a showstopper for the derogation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u44	I dispute that, because the Commission has stated to us that you must have implemented the actions in the Sixth Action Programme of the Nitrates Directive, because if you do not, it is a show-stopper for the derogation. One of the measures it contains is the setting of sector ceilings in national legislation. This is, therefore, really linked to the derogation and to the decision on derogations, which I hope will be adopted for the coming years. Then the generic discount in case of imminent overrun. That generic discount is not at issue in the event of a threat of overrun, but at the time when it has already been exceeded. In the event of a threat of overrun, we will first use other measures to prevent that overrun from actually happening. I have just explained what measures and steps we all have to take to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u45	However, the legislative proposal states that a generic reduction can also be applied in the event of a threat of overrun. So it's in there. It is true that the Minister indicates that other measures will be tried first, but the possibility is there, and if there is, it can simply be used.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u46	No. The law clearly states that a generic discount can be imposed if the ceiling is exceeded. The discount can only be applied for the part that is exceeded above the ceiling. In doing so, we have ensured that it cannot be used improperly, for any other reason, and that it is cut short to get below that ceiling. The discount shall not exceed what is necessary to return to the ceiling. This also implies that the discount may not be used until it is above it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u47	Does the Minister now state that you do not have a generic discount in the event of an imminent overrun?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u48	Right. That's not until it's crossed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u49	But it's in the law. At least there's that possibility in the bill. That is explicitly stated.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u50	In the event of a threat of overrun, we are going to use other measures. At the moment it is exceeded, only the piece that has been exceeded to the ceiling, so really that part that has been exceeded, can be reduced. It's in the law. Mr. Chairman. The VVD didn't really ask questions, but I would like to thank her very much for supporting the bill. I think that exactly the arguments have been given as to why the bill is important, precisely to ensure that farmers know that there is a greater chance that they can retain the derogation. We also hope that this bill will never have to enter into force. Then I'll come to D66's questions. What do I want to achieve with the contours of the new manure policy system? I would like to inform this Chamber at the beginning of next year about the contours of the new manure policy. That is what I said at an earlier stage when I answered the questions. Simplification of the regulatory environment is an important starting point. I have spoken before in the Chamber about manure legislation and its complexity. It is also complicated to maintain it well. That is always an important point in this Chamber. It is also complicated for farmers themselves to know whether they are right or not. The starting points for circular agriculture are important in this respect. This has just been outlined: less fertilizer, more animal manure and the question of how to value animal manure in such a way that it can be used more widely. By the way, there is now a promising pilot in which animal manure can be used as fertilizer. So you hit two birds with one stone. The animal manure can be valued high quality and you can reduce the fertilizer. The European Commission is interested in what we are achieving. With the plans they have just presented, we can see that we now also need to go more towards such initiatives, to see how we can shape them more in this way. I was asked whether I am familiar with the bureaucratic system of manure problems. Yes. Unfortunately, yes, I'm adding. Fertiliser policy has become very complex over the years. That was one of the reasons why I said that we should start with this rethink. It has led to a high implementation burden, both in the government and in the farmer. The discussion that we have always had in simplifying manure policy is that on the one hand you see that a lot of farmers need simpler regulation, but that simpler regulation is generally also a bit more generic regulation, while there are also specific situations where people say: in my case, there should be an exception. Then you'll come back to that complexity. We still have that discussion to have.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u51	I didn't ask if it was known to the Minister. Of course, she's familiar with it. I had asked whether it was calculated what it costs the Empire and what it costs the farmers to have to work in such a bureaucratic system.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u52	I have not calculated the cost of one-two-three, but you can imagine that these are significant, both for farmers and for the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u53	It would actually be very good to just calculate that on the basis of samples. Then we also know what we are talking about if we want to simplify the system. And yes, then you need some more generic measures. I recognize that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u54	Again, it is complicated to say exactly what the costs are of the complexity of the system and what the costs would be anyway. I do not know whether, for example, the cost of combating fraud would necessarily be less if we had a simpler system. Of course, this also has to do with other factors. I don't know if you could calculate that one-on-one at all. Again, we can assume that the costs are considerable. Are there any exceptions for organic farmers? The starting point for all companies is that nitrate leaching does not cause problems for the water. The land-based farms, which usually belong to organic farmers, are thus less likely to have a problem with nitrate leaching. This is also encouraged in several ways. For example, land-based companies are excluded from the generic discount applied at the time to the phosphate rights system. Ground-boundness is also stimulated through the phosphate bank, which is not yet open. This can only be done when we have our rights under the ceiling. When the time comes, the rights that are spent there are for young land-based farmers. It encourages this. Furthermore, what should be applied to the generic discount has been asked. I have just said a few words about this: transport tracks and skimming, including the total volume of production. They also asked about the buy-back and the buy-out of the rights. I have already replied to this question in the small-scale debate. This also concerns the amount of rights that the Netherlands would have to buy in order to achieve a circular economy. That is not something that can be realized in one way. There are several ways you can do that. When farmers want to stop, the cabinet also wants to help them. We are also in the process of drawing up an arrangement for this. Then the questions of the Party for Animals. Do I have a plan B if the derogation is not granted? It is clear that my commitment is to ensure that we retain that derogation. We're working on different cases at the same time. I am talking about the implementation of the measures in the Sixth Action Programme, the implementation of the reinforced enforcement strategy on which I have recently sent the Chamber a progress report, the broader development towards, for example, circular agriculture and ensuring that water quality is in order. I am also confident that the Netherlands will continue to fulfil the conditions for derogation. I'll make all my bets on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u55	I have indeed seen the coverage of the reinforced handling. That doesn't pay off yet. Not only the sector ceilings are now regulated by law, but also by guaranteeing them. My question is whether, as a result of this guarantee, enforcement should not be stepped up according to the Minister and whether it is part of her plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u56	I do not entirely agree with Mrs Teunissen when she says that the reinforced enforcement strategy is not paying off. A number of very substantial fines have been imposed over the past year and criminal proceedings have even taken place. I wouldn't call that nothing. There's really a lot of action going on right now. Rightly so, because where things go wrong, the consequences can be great, also for people who are willing and ultimately also for our water quality that affects everyone. So I do not agree with Mrs Teunissen that this does not pay off. It's just that we can't relax in that. We must continue to do this, and we must ensure that we cooperate even better in the area of enforcement, including with other parties. That can still be achieved successfully. We have now selected a number of areas where it is important that there is good cooperation with other parties, such as the Public Prosecutor, the Environmental Service and the NVWA. Fortunately, we are already seeing results, but we certainly must continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u57	I also ask this because, as I said in my speech, manure fraud is quite extensive. The Planning Office for the Environment has estimated that 30% to 40% of the manure is run illegally. Now that is very difficult to control, but it was also the reason for the European Commission to grant the derogation only for two years. That's why my concern is great. How will the European Commission react now? Although there are a number of criminal cases, this fraud is still extensive. Can the Minister, as far as it stands at the moment, give any estimate of whether there will be a need to step up the guarantee of the sector ceilings in order to obtain that approval?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u58	We have also sent all the documents we have sent to your Chamber to the Commission. And that's what we're talking about. The fact that we have a number of criminal cases shows to me that we have really stepped up on them. This is particularly the case with the intermediaries. These are not all the people, moreover, who sometimes allow fraud cases of this kind and who are now being prosecuted or have already been convicted. You can see that they had a facilitating role to make the manure fraud possible. So if you take that away from there, you can already have a bigger impact than when you're going to see what's happening one-on-one. We also have this conversation with the Commission to show what we are doing. We point out to the Commission that we are not going to stop doing this. It is not that, when the derogation is in, we suddenly stand up again with our hands in the air and think: well, never mind. No, it is really still an encouragement to ensure that we continue along this road, because fraud must be combated.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u59	I understand that you are making every effort to prevent the derogation from being granted. But what happens when the European Union says, with an amendment or whatever, that it is insufficient? So what are we gonna do?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u60	The what-if questions are always attractive to ask. I understand that, too. But I think it is particularly important that we now make every effort to ensure that we do get this derogation. That's what we're doing. The fact that I'm here tonight is part of that. But to start sketching all kinds of scenarios for what's gonna happen next... I'm just trying to make this work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u61	We're not talking about very long periods here. If I understand you correctly, it'll start in two weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u62	The debate on whether the Netherlands will be eligible for the derogation will be held in the Nitrate Committee. I think we're gonna get this Nitrate Committee together this week. Yeah, that's right. I had to take a look because I don't know all the data exactly, but the people sitting there do. I just do not expect a decision to be taken on the extension of the derogation for the Netherlands. That's what happens in the new year. I would also have preferred that we had that clarity, but I have just outlined why it has become a little late than we had hoped. At the same time, time is not long. That's true. It's about months. It's not two weeks, but it's a few months. Then we'll know if we've extended the derogation or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u63	Mrs. Kluit, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u64	Is there any way the plan is ready in the Ministry?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u65	The plan... The plan is to ensure that the derogation continues. That's the plan. We can now set out all kinds of scenarios for what happens if all this does not happen, but again, I think it is important that we make sure that everything is done here to ensure that this happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u66	I would like to go back to enforcement, particularly because Mrs Teunissen once again talked about large-scale fraud. Are those words the Minister takes over?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u67	In fraud, the problem is always that you don't know how big it is, because if you know it all exactly, you also know where it is and you can deal with it all. We see there's fraud. Every fraud case is one too many, as far as I'm concerned. I leave the qualifications to the members.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u68	I very much agree, fraud needs to be dealt with. That's crystal clear. But it is about a profession, and it is now listening with it, so to speak. What do we say about them? Is it large-scale? If it is large scale, you also need to scale up with measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u69	We are trying to do the enforcement very specifically where the greatest results are to be achieved; it is a bit strange to put it that way. Where we see that things are extensive, at one agency or around one person, we are now focusing on enforcement. That also has the most effect in the deterrent effect; let me put it this way. Is it large-scale or not? Again, I think it's up to everyone to use such a qualification. At least we do what we can to prevent any fraud. Mrs Teunissen also asks whether I recognise that the manure ceilings are now too high. The Sixth Programme of Action of the Nitrates Directive sets out the policy for the period 2018 to 2021, including the legislative proposal under consideration today. This complies with the environmental objectives set out in the Nitrates Directive. It is therefore not the case that these targets need to be adjusted in order to achieve the environmental objectives. These are precisely the things that we need to take care of in order to achieve these environmental objectives. The four-yearly action programmes allow for an adjustment of manure policy. The next seventh action programme will be based on the rethinking of the manure policy I have announced. Is it to be expected that the reform of manure policy will address the problems for nature and will nature be better protected? This cabinet invests again in the improvement of nature, more than in previous years. This is wider than manure policy. For example, it is also a question of the size of livestock, as Mrs Teunissen has already mentioned. Fertiliser policy is primarily aimed at improving water quality. This is of course also good for nature, although nature recovery requires more than that. I'll bet on that, too. As I said, I expect to be able to inform your Chamber in the spring about the contours of future manure policy, so I think we will be able to talk about that. Also asked is how much mercy I have for nature. That's a nice question. I think it is good to have mercy anyway, not only with the farmers or with nature, but also with all of us. You may have mercy on me, too, I say, but that's up to you. The question is something of a contradiction between agriculture and nature. Since the moment I took office, I think that is what I still think we are really losing if we allow that contradiction to exist and perhaps make it bigger. I really believe that these two can't do without each other, but they have to get on with each other. It can be very attractive to focus on one of the two: either you're from the farmer or you're from nature. There is nothing more difficult than uniting these two things, but I truly believe that that is the only way forward in all the discussions we are currently having. And yes, those are really intensive discussions with lots of emotions and also uncertainty. Mr Schalk also pointed out this. If we can't do that, I think there's nothing but losers. Then not one group loses, but then both farmers and nature lose. I'll bet on that. There's my deep motivation to do this, sometimes in very complicated issues. But if we do, then we really have a perspective for both farmers and nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u70	If it's about mercy, I'd like to speak with you. I share the objective described by the Minister, namely that it should not become a contradiction between the farmer and nature on the one hand. But the farmer as a group is of course divided. Some farmers already show that it can be done in a very good combination. They have a recycling company and sustainable agriculture and they are really very busy with nature, so that's not where the tension is. But there are forms of the agricultural farm where you still see a very great tension with the interests of nature. Certainly, there should be no contradiction between the farmer and nature, but could the minister want and differentiate between certain types of farmer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u71	Then the risk is again that we're going to play one group against another or set it up. I do not think that is what Mr Koole means, but the risk is there. There is already so much division and the tendency is already so great to say to each other "here things are better" or "here things are worse" or "you're doing well" or "you're not doing well." I think we are on the verge of doing so again, and that is also to do with the debate we are having tomorrow. We are seeing how farmers in their own situation, from their own profession, can take the steps that are needed to achieve more balance with emissions, with nature, with water, with all the aspects that are in the policy. I don't think that's one mold. As many farmers as there are, there are so many opinions in the Netherlands, because every farmer knows the best what he wants on his own business. Fortunately, I say, because diversity is also the strength of Dutch agriculture. But within all this diversity, it is the challenge to find out what the best steps are for a company to produce more in balance with the environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u72	I welcome the Minister's reply. Because that means that the current types of farms within agriculture cannot say that each type must be able to continue to exist as it currently exists. A move will have to be made towards better coordination between farmers, agriculture and nature. Because nature is not doing well, so we will have to ask the farmers to take some more than others to take those steps. I understand the Minister intends to do the same. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u73	Again, that is also linked to the debate we hope to have tomorrow. In the letter we also said that farmers who want to continue to farm can continue to do so. That could mean you're adapting your company to parts. That may also mean that your company is being relocated. It often affects farmers most when they are completely stuck because of a Natura 2000 site. For farmers who want to stop, we ensure a good settlement. So in different ways you try to meet the farmer's point of view. However, it is clear that we need to reduce nitrogen emissions. That is, of course, exactly the debate we are having and what we are discussing with farmers. What are the possibilities? I come to Mrs Kluit's questions. I already congratulated her on her maiden speech. When will the new reality of ecology and economy be translated into legislation? That was her first question of principle. In my LNV vision, I have clearly outlined where it cuts, namely that in agriculture you run into borders every time. We have to go to another way of producing. I shall almost get to Mr Koole's question. If you work more in circles, you reduce emissions to air, soil, water or whatever. That is a broad and long development. Agricultural policy, as we know it now, has also undergone a long development. Nor has it been introduced in one year. I sometimes say that it took about 60 years to get to where we are now. It is proud to think that I can turn that around in one or two years. It's not. It is precisely farmers who have to deal with long-term investments. They have a long horizon. If things have to be different, it's a long shot, too. It is important, however, that the steps we are taking go in the right direction. That's the test we have to take every time, also to make sure we can handle the future. If we continue to run into these edges every time, this not only literally leads to a lot of misery, but also does not give the air that farmers need to be able to continue their business in the way they want it to be. The manure policy, which we are discussing today, is an important part of that. That is what we are going to talk about at the rethinking. Derogation is a political choice, says Mrs Kluit. Do we really have to do that? The derogation is also based on an environmental justification. It is not so that we can say to Europe: we do enjoy having a derogation; can you please give it to us? This has been reviewed by the European Commission. It will only grant that derogation if it is also good for water quality. It is precisely because of a number of characteristics that the Netherlands has that we are entitled to a derogation, but these requirements are quite demanding, for example the amount of grassland you need. The fact that it has to be good for water quality is also my starting point. Under derogation companies, therefore, water quality is structurally better than among non-derogation companies. Therefore, derogation is also important from an environmental point of view. But we also have to look at how the derogation fits into the future manure policy again. We just have to put it back in place. Again, we must be able to demonstrate that it is also good for water quality. That's really the touchstone. Not only will I do so, but the Commission will continue to review it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u74	When considering the Seventh Action Programme, would you like to highlight the policy options based on phasing out or stopping the derogation? That way we have the whole palette at least in view.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u75	We are now rethinking manure policy. This is the basis for the Seventh Action Programme for the Nitrates Directive. The derogation is part of that. That's what I just called it. I'm just trying to find out what Mrs. Klut is referring to. Does she want to have different scenarios in that rethinking?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u76	Yes. It would be very nice if you could put things side by side, so that we can also consider the question in the sector itself: what does that mean, whether or not a derogation? Because with the derogation, of course, we are looking for borders. It may be that we have specific conditions here that allow us to process more, but the fact is that we are also suffering from surpluses on both...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u77	These surpluses will, of course, simply increase in the short term if you lose the derogation. So there is also an environmental risk, I say, because it is not the case that suddenly that manure is no longer there. This should also, literally, lead to a cold restructuring of the sector. I'm not sure that's what Mrs. Kluit wants. I don't think so. We allow certain variants, like directions, to be tested by the PBL at the moment. I do not know whether all the scenarios of no derogation are included. I don't have that very sharp right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u78	Do you still want to bring them in if it isn't?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u79	In view of the time we have, I do not think we can discuss it here in the Chamber in the spring. Then I'd be walking very, very out of time again. But basically, if you don't have the derogation, you're going to get a huge surplus of your manure in the same amount of animals, with all the environmental hazards that come with it. If you don't have the derogation and you wouldn't want that problem to arise, then you'll have to go back a long way in the amount of animals you have. These are about the flavors that exist in the scenarios of whether or not a derogation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u80	May I point out to Members that we are now halfway to the Minister's first term? This is how we're gonna get hopeless out of the pass. There will be a second term of office and a second term of government. I therefore ask you to keep your response to what the Minister says, if possible, for your second term, unless, of course, an enlightening question is necessary, as is the case with Mr Koole, who will also be given the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u81	I also asked questions about the derogation. I'm gonna come up with that right now. Then the Minister will no longer have to answer them. My question is about the longer-term perspective. I understand that no derogation at all is included in the variants that are being looked at, but is there the possibility of a proper phasing-out in the longer term, so that farmers can really see this in a decent way? My question is therefore about the longer-term reduction of the derogation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u82	However, we are looking at how the derogation best fits into a system of circular farming. We are looking at that, but that does not necessarily lead to a reduction, because once again, if it leads to better water quality, I would not be opposed to maintaining the derogation. In the end, it's about the result. We have to guarantee that result. We need to be sure we're gonna make it. That is what the Commission is holding us to. But if it means that a derogation leads to a higher water quality, which we now see among those derogation companies, then I would not necessarily want to get rid of it. Then GroenLinks' question about generic discount: what does it mean if other measures are first deployed? I just outlined that. I think that's familiar. Can individual farmers take steps themselves to avoid a discount? Individual farmers can, of course, ensure that they also do so if their production area corresponds to the size of their production rights. So if every individual farmer adheres to that, we have no problem. In doing so, they can also control a production, for example via feed or by buying or leasing rights if they need more rights. It is not the case now that we are going to determine per individual farmer whether he has produced under a certain ceiling. We do not set ceilings per company. We really do that by sector. So we are also maintaining these sector ceilings. If there is a generic discount and if a farmer can demonstrate that there is an individual disproportionate burden, that may be a reason to compensate. In it, so to speak, the other side is built in. What are we gonna do to get everything out of the closet to avoid overrun? I think I've already explained that in detail. What is needed in order not to push forward long-term policies in the short term? That is a nice question, because that suggests that we need more people or something like that to do that kind of business. We've been through a bit of a rough patch over the last few years. I still do. There are also people who have been recruited from the teams, because we really needed to use more human resources to ensure that we can give good direction to everything related to the nitrogen problem. However, I share Mrs Kluit's view that we should also continue to focus on long-term policies, that we should actually continue to take all the steps there and that we should also bear that in mind in all that is happening. That's what I'm trying to combine in the things that are going on right now. So I really take this appeal to heart, but I can also reassure Mrs Kluit: short-term and long-term are not contradictory to each other and must also be mutually exclusive for me. Then I come to Mr Koole. I have just answered his first question after his interruption. He also asked for adequate enforcement in the fight against manure fraud. In the spring I will send your Chamber the outlines for the review of manure policy. An important part of this review is simplification. In addition, we are, of course, still taking steps in the fight against manure fraud. I also shared the reinforced enforcement strategy with your Chamber on this point. It is intended that these measures will work really robustly and for a long time, also towards the Seventh Action Programme, so that it actually flows seamlessly. In doing so, I have three tracks: simplifying the rules, self-responsibility of the sector, because in the end it is also just a sector that needs to be accessible to one's own actions; then there must also be a discussion between themselves about this, but also adequate enforcement. The NVWA will also be explicitly involved in the review of manure policy in order to assess the persistence of the new system that we intend to make. The size of the livestock is not an end in itself. It is not the case that the size of the livestock is a goal. We must now take the steps to ensure that we produce with less emissions and that they result in the measures that can lead to fewer cattle, but again, that is not an end in itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u83	I understand it's not a goal in itself. It is a means of achieving other goals. My question was whether, given the objective you want to achieve, it is not inescapable that the total size of the livestock is shrinking. Does the Minister agree? I'm not asking if it's a goal, because the goal is nature conservation and so on. It is inevitable and does the Minister agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u84	Those are always those absolute statements. I prefer to relate it to measures we take. To take a side-track, we have just been talking about the reform of pig farming. That's where smell was the point. We see that there are also companies out there that can't go forward or backwards. Then let's make a proper arrangement for that. This also leads to fewer animals, although the goal was to reduce the odour nuisance. The aim was also to help those farmers to get out of that situation. For me, this is always something that is a consequence of a goal we have agreed on. There are several ways to achieve that, and this could be one of the ways. We are still looking very specifically at the further development of such a buy-out scheme, for example. In pig farming, we did it the way we did it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u85	Then I note that this is exactly the example I was referring to. The goal was not less and less, but ultimately led to fewer animals. That is what happened in this example. I think that will be inevitable for the whole sector. I have one more question about this. Is it not fairer for farmers to say that it is obvious that the number of animals will be reduced so that they can take it into account? 'Cause otherwise they're gonna count on everything to stay the way it is, and I don't think that's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u86	This is exactly what we are still working on for the buy-out scheme. I am committed to doing this very carefully and to taking and naming the steps in it. I do not rule out the fact that it is a result of the measures we are taking, but I think it is too absolute to say that it is an inevitable consequence. We'll talk about that later. Is the temporary 20% cream permanent? This was also a question in Mr Koole's written set. The aim of the increase in skimming is to bring the number of duties below the production ceiling. As soon as this goal is achieved, the law prescribes to return to the original percentage of skimming of 10%. This has been an amendment that has been tabled in the Lower House and is now part of the law. I have to abide by the law. It is important that we get together now under that ceiling. That is also a demand that has been made and we are therefore working in this way to achieve it. This is also a condition before the phosphate bank can open. So we all have an interest in that happening soon. Mr Koole is asking about ownership. He asks whether reduction of phosphate law is a removal of property. He also asks whether I share the view that compensation is only possible on compelling legal grounds. Legally speaking, a generic reduction in production rights does not involve withdrawal, but rather regulation of ownership. That is what the Supreme Court has said, and Mr Koole himself referred to it. However, the legislative proposal provides for the possibility of compensation in the case of generic discounts. I have just outlined this possibility, namely the moment when an individual case leads to an individual disproportionate burden. That is a term that we are now using in matters relating to phosphate rights. This will have to be considered on a case-by-case basis. This also depends, for example, on the level of the discount and the speed of its introduction. These are all aspects that take into account. There is therefore a possibility in the law to obtain compensation for this. Then a precise indication of the current value of phosphate rights, in total and per holding. There are currently more than 85.8 million duties in the market. The price of phosphate law is a question of supply and demand, so that varies at different times. At the moment, the price, which we have just looked at, is around €130 per kilogram. The total value of phosphate rights will then amount to around EUR 11 billion. By the way, this is a hypothetical value, because farmers need these rights to keep cows and cannot simply sell them or make money, because you also need places where they can be used again. Based on an average farm of 100 dairy cows and about 40 young cattle, a farm needs about 5,000 kilos of phosphate rights. At present, this would amount to over €600,000 in phosphate rights. The farmer who, when the phosphate rights system was introduced, was granted free of charge can now sell them for money. That's right. Only then that farmer will no longer be able to keep dairy cows, so what he deserves is gone, so it is an asset that is then gone. Again, that was also explicitly part of the legal history and treatment, including in this Chamber. This was deliberately chosen in the Lower House, the Upper Chamber and, of course, by the Rutte-II cabinet, when that was introduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u87	Let me get this straight. What if someone quit their business and can sell those rights? Then that is on the average company that the minister outlined €600,000, which was once obtained for not. Doesn't that mean that there's a big gift given to that farmer through those rights?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u88	This is the consequence of the introduction of a system of rights. That was once, once, once, once, at the milk quota. That was introduced once, and it became negotiable after that. Then there are always people who benefit from it, I say in quotes, or who gain from it. There are also people who are going to have to make rather high costs, so that is a problem of division within the sector itself. But the fact that these rights are worth money and can be traded and that there is a revenue to be generated with them has also been the reason why we had to go through the state aid procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u89	Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u90	Mr Koole's final question concerns the fact that there is a market-based remuneration for the reform of pig farming. He asked whether this compensation did not take into account the fact that a farmer was granted phosphate rights free of charge, in fact in line with the previous question. Just for the record, the phosphate rights system sees dairy farming and this is about animal rights. They also have a value and they will also be reimbursed on market terms, so there is also an amount to be charged for that. Eventually, of course, a total amount is paid for a farm, which a farmer receives when he stops. Then I come to Mr Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u91	However, I would like to ask you a supplementary question concerning pig farming and the reorganisation. The average income of a pig farmer has risen enormously this year. Last year, by the way, it was almost nil. This year, I believe, it is on average €275,000. If we're talking about the buy-back scheme, how do you determine the value? Are we talking about averages or the current price of pigs?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u92	That's about the market price right now. A distinction is made between the regions. I'm just gonna get it out of my head. In the case of pig rights, it is divided into regions. There are different amounts per area. This has to do with the fact that the rights within that area are negotiable. The intensity of the quantity of pigs and the need for duties in such an area determine the price. At present, it is a market-based price. It is true that incomes vary every year: we are not always talking about the pig cycle for nothing. It has to do, among other things, with African swine fever in places around the world. That affects the price of the pigs. Mr Janssen has asked a question about enforcement. That was an important point for him. Where can it be better and good examples shared? The reinforced enforcement strategy for manure aims at increasing the packing potential and cooperation between the supervisory authorities. There is also cooperation between RVO, NVWA and the regional supervisory authorities. Operationally, but also administratively, I have good contacts and coordination with the region on these matters. We also have intensive discussions with the sector organisations about their own role, also in connection with legislation and regulations. We were just talking about a learning organization. I think these are things that we need to keep moving forward with each other. You learn more and more and you gain more insights. You exchange more and more things with each other, but you also increasingly appeal to each other on the role that everyone has to prevent this. As things stand, I am confident that we will continue to take this step. To intervene in production rights, in conjunction with tomorrow's debate. In the interrupting debate we have just exchanged a number of things on this subject. The choices regarding the nitrogen dossier may lead to amendment of the Fertilisers Act. They can also lead to intervention in production rights. However, we are still looking at exactly how we are going to shape this. Again, they're not all goals in themselves, but they come from the choices we make. Is the punitive part of enforcement high enough for the change in behaviour and what about the level of fines? I recently sent a report from the CDM to your room. In doing so, I asked for the manure fines to be presented from an economic perspective and in view of the possibility of packing, in order to determine whether it is sufficiently deterrent. The CDM notes that the current administrative fines for the infringement of the Fertilisers Act are on average high enough to deprive the direct economic advantage of the manure fraud. You can read that in the report. In the letter I sent to you, I also indicated that I see opportunities for improvement in making more distinctions between repeated and company size. That's what the CDM recommends. I will examine these possibilities in the first quarter and inform the Chamber how we can increase the deterrent. Is the generic discount sufficient to get a culture change? Are farmers gonna talk to each other about it? So not that only the government appeals to them, but that they, so to speak, go to each other and say to each other, "Hey, I can suffer from your behavior. I think that a culture change in itself is not necessarily due to a law or a threat of a generic discount. However, I believe that the sector itself has a role to play in seeing how fraud can affect everyone. In that sense, you have to imagine some kind of solidarity in it. A discount like that can affect anyone. I think that is what we need to discuss and debate with the sector. I do. Then there is the specific question of why these amendments have been adopted and why they are embraced to make it mute. I believe that the amendments adopted still implement the Sixth Action Programme. In doing so, we also meet the objectives set by the Commission with regard to the extension of the derogation. Mrs Huizinga asked whether the amended law still meets the conditions laid down by the European Commission. Yes. This legislative amendment implements the measures set out in the Sixth Action Programme of the Nitrates Directive and complies with its obligations. What are the chances of the generic discount being applied? On the basis of the current figures, the ceilings do not appear to be exceeded. It is therefore not the case that I am currently considering a generic discount. That's a good thing. My commitment is also to keep it that way. The Netherlands is now under the ceiling. Is that a trend, or is it occasional? I hope the downfall is a trend. Let me put it this way. It's complicated to say that this is definitely the case. We also see that weather conditions, for example, can affect those ceilings. But it is important that we make every effort to stay below those national and sectoral ceilings, so that there is no reason to interfere with the rights. What do I expect from the Seventh Action Programme? I expect a simplification, more towards the principles of circular agriculture, measures to be taken where necessary in relation to nitrate and/or phosphate emissions and integration with other policy objectives, so that everything is not too fragmented but that we try to do so as much as possible. Otherwise, it'll all end up on the farmer's yard. He'll have to see how he connects all the rules we have with him. As far as I am concerned, that is what we need to do in order for this synergy and integration to take place. Mr Gerbrandy asked me if I wanted to respond to the ultimate remedy when other measures prove not to be effective enough. As far as I'm concerned, it's really an ultimate cure, an ultimate rescue. We just said how we see those steps before that. I have also said that I hope that I will never have to use this measure. Then there's the persistence. Is the chance of getting caught big enough? This is part of the reinforced enforcement strategy. It's really focused on raising that chance of getting caught. As I have said, I am working together with the regional supervisory authorities, both operational and administrative. We also use data technology to track manure transports in real time. Then we can see where those transports are. I expect that in the coming year we will be able to take new steps on these two points in order to increase the chances of catching up. Finally, Mr Schalk's questions. Who put us in this account? That is a very fundamental question. I always say, in the end, everything is the fault of politics, because we make the laws and rules. If we do not make it good enough, this will ultimately lead to all sorts of things going wrong. But without kidding, I think this is something that everyone has a stake in. We must note that we are often at the limits of all kinds of things. I have already indicated this in my view. If you're up against a line, I'll compare it to a bucket that's all full. One drop is enough to flood the place completely. So we have to get away from the edge of the bucket. That's the most solace. Otherwise, we'll continue to follow up on incident after incident. It would be worth a sweet thing to me if we could create air. Then there is the clarification of the forecast of manure production, also in relation to the regulation of the clean-up and the transport track. A reduction in the number of animals kept and in the number of phosphorus and nitrogen in the ration will reduce phosphate and nitrogen excretion. The reform scheme for pig farming has the potential to reduce the number of pigs kept between 7% and 10%. This depends on the quantity of tenders and the costs involved. I cannot give such a quantification of the feed track right now. I do think that this set of measures will ensure that we remain structurally below the production ceilings in the coming years and that we stay away from that edge of the bucket we were just talking about. Then the discussion about the fact that if you want to cut short, you have to start with the entrepreneurs who have more animals than is allowed. I don't see exactly what happens per company. There may also be other causes that lead to a ceiling overrun, such as keeping animals with higher excretion, changes in rations or extreme weather conditions. It is not always the fault of an individual entrepreneur; it is a complex set of causes. That is why we must be cautious and, if we do not have a clear view of the situation, we cannot punish those entrepreneurs first. In its feasibility it is therefore rather complex. Finally, it was asked whether I would take into account the available duties when applying the generic discount. Yes, the number of rights in the market is taken into account. Mr. Chairman. I think I have answered Members' questions with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u93	Thank you, Madam Secretary. We now come to the second term from the Chamber. I give the floor to Mr Van Pareren.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u94	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to put a few more questions to the Minister. The first one. I just heard that a letter containing value thresholds is coming to the Chamber. Can the Minister tell us what thresholds are going to be included? I also missed some answers to my questions. I heard the Minister about the different interpretations by the countries in the EU. My question to the Minister is: why do we choose these low limits? Why don't we go to other countries and see what happens there? Why are we so tight in there? Furthermore, I have not had an answer on the legal risks, but perhaps that overlaps with the nitrogen dossier. Then I have another point to make. Farmers are entrepreneurs. Those entrepreneurs invest in the long term. The Minister also mentioned uncertainty with long-term investment. We are a country with these farmers, with this entrepreneurship. We're running sales all over the world. It now seems to me that tonight I have heard that several times this evening as if the shrinkage in livestock is a necessity. There is an incredible demand for our products, for the quality of Dutch products. No one else is going to fill it out, other than getting unidentified products from outside our country. They are family businesses that work in them, live on them and build on them. Can the Minister indicate a little more how important it considers the economic importance of this industry to be? Is it considered to be a burden that you have to reduce?It's called "sustainable" or do we really see it as one of the strengths of our country? Then I have two points, ahead of tomorrow. The first is that tomorrow we will talk about the nitrogen dossier and I would be delighted if Minister Wiebes is also here. He also has a big finger in the porridge.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u95	Mr. Van Pareren, what you are doing now is out of order of this debate. So I won't allow it. We are now talking about the Sixth Action Programme for the Nitrates Directive and we are restricting the debate to that. I am obliged to keep to that subject, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, which was also supported by your group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u96	I understand that, Mr President, thank you very much. In particular, I spoke earlier about legal aspects because there has just been a ruling in question on, in this case, the values for nitrogen. That statement is pretty clear. That is why I would like to emphasise the risks, and thus the uncertainty for the farmers concerned, in the whole approach to this matter. I'd like to leave it at that, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u97	Thank you, Mr. Van Pareren. I call Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for answering the questions, although I still have some criticism of certain answers. Firstly, the Minister and I differ on the generic discount. The Minister states that generic discount is applied in case of actual overrun. I indicated that the bill also provides for a threat of overrun. On page 6 of the explanatory memorandum on the generic reduction, it reads: "It is proposed that this power be used in future in the event of a threat to exceed the ceiling for the production of poultry or pig animal manure'. It's just in there, so I'd like a response from the minister. What is it now? The other point is that the Minister disputes the argument that exceeding the sector ceiling is an obstacle to derogation... Oh, no, I'm sorry. I'll start over. I was a little confused. Too much nitrogen, so let's go back. The Minister disputes the argument that exceeding the sector ceiling is not an obstacle to derogation as long as it remains below the national ceiling. I took the decision of the European Commission of 31 May 2018. The general conditions for derogation do not contain any mention of an overrun of sectoral ceilings. However, we can read about exceeding the total national ceiling. That must not be exceeded. My specific question to the Minister: where does she read in the decision that exceeding the sector ceiling is an obstacle to derogation? I'd like to leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u99	Thank you, Mrs Faber. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u100	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his comprehensive reply. I'll be very brief now. A number of issues, such as the restructuring of pig farming, will continue tomorrow. I have one question right now. You said on my questions: organic farmers and extensive farmers are already on my mind. Maybe I didn't get it right, but the Minister said she'd be able to meet them further if it was postponed later, and the phosphate bank was set up. I don't understand. Perhaps the Minister would like to explain that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u101	Thank you, Mr. Arrowman. I call Mrs Teunissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u102	Mr. Chairman. The minister asked me to be merciful to her. I am a merciful type and I would like to be very merciful to the Minister, but I am merciless in her policy. Agriculture and nature, I thought, would be a very nice sketch of the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development, which would be in balance. As far as we are concerned, this is far from the situation and agriculture and nature are only further away from each other. That's not a new story at all. As an example, in 1972, Sicco Leendert Mansholt, farmer, resistance fighter and former food minister, argued to the government that measures were needed to restore cycle production, restore a natural balance between insects and the bird world and also preserve the overall ecological balance. At the beginning of 1990, conservationists advocated the reduction of livestock in order to protect nature from increasing nitrogen emissions. I can go on like this for a while. Agriculture and nature have since only moved further away from each other. The limits of growth are long past. The derogation only extends those limits a little further. Tomorrow the Chamber will discuss the nitrogen crisis, today it will talk about manure and its impact on nature and water quality. The fixation on these individual problems in relation to nature does not do enough justice to the environmental and health problems caused by the livestock industry. Nature has been compromised. 99% of Dutch waters do not meet the intended water quality. We are dealing with increasing antibiotic resistance, zoonoses, particulate matter, forest cover for animal feed, greenhouse gas emissions and animals are far from being able to show their natural behavior. The big problem is too big a herd. The manure surplus is only one of the symptoms of this. The reduction in livestock is inevitable. Derogation is merely a delay in transition. Yes, I agree that agriculture and nature should be balanced. That is good for people and animals, and also for farmers when they are offered a fair perspective. I therefore call on the Minister to include the shrinkage of livestock in the reform of manure policy, so that agriculture and nature can actually return to balance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u103	Thank you, Mrs Teunissen. I call Mrs Kluit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u104	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am always happy when I hear this Minister talking about balance between farmers, nature and how it relates to each other. I also think that this is the way we should go, if only because without farmers, the rural area will not remain liveable and pleasant and criminal forces other than those we have talked about today can seize their chance. I have a number of points for the follow-up and at the end I would like to table two motions. The first point is that I am somewhat surprised that there is no plan B in case the derogation is not granted. I do, however, share my colleagues' comments that, with all the weakenings that have been done in the course of the parliamentary process, we may be getting zero in the European Union. Contrary to what some here say, the Netherlands is not very good in Europe. We're being watched. We should actually do our utmost to show that we are taking this directive seriously. The reason is that we in Europe take a huge measure of other countries' compliance with rules. We must therefore be very persuasive here. This is a lack of risk management. That's what we saw at the PAS. That's what we see in other ministries. I do not know how to proceed with this, but I would like to name it, and I would also ask you to address it in the Cabinet, because we are taking too great a risk and then hard countries in our society. I also think it is extremely important in this context that we should give an idea of what a life in the Netherlands without a derogation looks like. It may be a little late now if it pops up in a couple of weeks, but let's at least get ready for what it looks like, so that we know it at least. The motions are asking to put this in the picture. You have explained very clearly what the steps look like after the exceedances. As far as I'm concerned, it's not clear enough. I fear that, should we have to apply generic discounts, we will once again confront farmers and nature organisations with a long period of uncertainty and political negotiation. So I would like to challenge you and ask you to agree to make a plan together with the farming sector and nature organisations, a communication plan, a roadmap, call it what you want us to do, in which we make it clear, regardless of the specific situation, how we are going to deal with each other when we are in danger of getting into trouble, so that we do not have to do so when we are already in trouble. I would like to hear from the Minister whether she wishes to make a commitment to this. Finally, the long-term commitment. The Minister spoke nicely about it. I would also like to emphasise that I have a great deal of faith in her. So this should not in any way be regarded as a motion of censure, but I do wonder whether the size of the cabinet takes sufficient account of the enormous task of crisis management that we have. I think it is extremely important that this Minister is working on the long term. My question to her is whether she can discuss in the Cabinet how we can save sufficient time and capacity for the long-term approach to this nitrogen crisis, which is not ready next week and may take a long time. Mr. Chairman. The signatures are a bit shattered, but I have a profound feeling that this motion is sufficiently supported. Mr Kluit, Mr Rosenmöller, Mr Karimi and Mr Teunissen tabled the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that working at the borders of European standards has led to many major emergency measures for individual farmers in recent years;]] [[Whereas the Dutch farmers are entitled to a stable and predictable policy in respect of measures taken by the Netherlands to comply with the regular standards laid down in the Nitrates Directive;]] [[Whereas developing buffers below the sectoral ceilings makes it easier to achieve this stability with a permanent derogation;]] [[calls on the Government to develop, in the run-up to the seventh nitrate package, several policy options based on the reduction of derogations and to involve them in further decision-making,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] Mr Kluit, Mr Rosenmöller and Mr Karimi tabled the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that nitrogen and phosphate emissions should be reduced in order to meet the objectives of the Water Framework Directive;]] [[Whereas working at the borders of European standards has led to many far-reaching emergency measures for individual farmers in recent years;]] [[believes that in the long term Dutch farmers would be less likely to be confronted with additional measures if the Netherlands complied with the regular standards laid down in the Nitrates Directive;]] [[Considers that the Dutch agricultural sector, and individual farmers in particular, would benefit greatly from a stable and predictable policy and that with more robust standards this stability is easier to achieve than under the derogation model;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a plan of action setting out a specific timetable to meet the regular standards set out in the Nitrates Directive and to inform the Court of Justice of this before 1 May 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35233-E]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35233-F]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u105	That depends mainly on the quantity of signatures and that is four in this case. So there's gonna be something else, but it's gonna be all right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to the Minister for answering the questions. I would have liked to put a question on the derogation, but that has just been discussed on the basis of the motions for resolutions. I believe that the idea that we should ultimately make much less use of these derogations should be supported. I would very much like to argue in favour of that. I'm not going to ask any further questions to the Minister. The discussion will continue. What remains is that a strong protection of nature and the environment is needed to achieve precisely that ecological balance. Sicco Mansholt has already been mentioned. I would also like to call on the Minister to continue to take significant steps in this direction, as this is very much needed to achieve that objective. I also call on her not to offer a false perspective. Not everything is possible, says the Remkes Committee. This also means that in the end you do not have to accept as a goal but as a consequence that the number of animals of the Dutch livestock will decrease. This policy must, of course, always be conducted with a fair treatment of the agricultural sector in conjunction with housing, which we will be discussing tomorrow. That discussion will continue, but I will give my group a positive opinion on this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u107	Thank you, Mr Koole. I call Mrs Huizinga.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u108	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Minister very much for her clear and pleasant answer to our questions. Mr. Chairman. I take three things from this debate for myself. The Minister's aim is not to make nature and agriculture stand out, but rather to make it work together. Others have already said that. It seems to me to be an excellent starting point. That's the way it should be. Then the Minister said: a reduction in livestock may be a consequence of the measures, but it is not a goal. My group supports that. Finally, the Minister actually surprised me by saying that derogation has a positive effect on water quality. That's news to me. It's good to hear that. I also understand that the Minister is therefore a little more hesitant when it comes to completely abolishing or going towards reducing the derogation. Mr President, that is, as far as I am concerned, the conclusion. It remains unchanged: I am going to propose that my group vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u109	Thank you very much, Mrs Huizinga. I call Mr Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u110	Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna miss half a minute, but I'm sure I'll be fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u111	It goes in whole minutes, so I'm gonna turn it on a little bit later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u112	It could have been three of me too! Anyway... Mr. Chairman. First of all, I missed Mr Otten today. He signed up for ten minutes and I was so curious about his contribution. Unfortunately, this is a no-go today. But maybe we can still see him at work tomorrow, although the tension is a bit off because we already know his conclusion. Mr. Chairman. The minister said we don't know what we don't know. I recognise that very well from the practice of supervision and enforcement, but then the follow-up question is: how do we ensure that we find out as much as possible? Of course, we do that by sharing information. I am thinking, for example, of the Regional Information and Expertise Centres, the National Information and Expertise Centre and the Public Prosecutor's Office. The comparison with the emerging substances was made quickly, of course, because there is already a whole chain in operation which can also be learned in cooperation. There's nothing but sharing information that doesn't get done. That must also be visible. As regards investing in supervision and enforcement, capacity pays itself back. That is not a cost, it is an investment, which also pays off in environmental gain. We've got to get fraud out. In this respect, I would also like to point out, for example, the problem with the cover fermentation that we see in that chain. Over the last ten years, some 0.25 billion of SDE+ grants have gone into this. I have sometimes referred to this as subsidised crime in an administrative consultation. But fortunately, after a number of years, the Ministry of EZK has now realised that something needs to be done about this. Since this summer, there have been consequences for this as well by stopping or tackling and reducing subsidies if they are involved. Mr. Chairman. Not every farmer is a fraud. Let us be extremely clear about that. But the rotten apples have to get out of the basket. The sector itself plays a very important role in this. They are primarily responsible for their own sector. Mr. Chairman. The SP doesn't want discounts either, but then you have to be extremely clear on the front. That means you're clear, you're consistent and you don't come up with something new every year. That's something you always hear from the industries. We shouldn't do that. But timely intervention is necessary to avoid worse. So I don't see the discount so much as the ultimum remedium, although it's moving further and further, but I especially see it as a stick behind the door. It must be preventive. This will prevent worse if we dare to be clear against each other in good time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u113	Thank you, Mr. Janssen. Mr. Gerbrandy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u114	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, too, for the Minister's answers. I support this amendment to the Fertilisers Act. This gives certainty to farmers in 2020-2021. However, I did say in my first term that I assume that the derogation will disappear in the long term. That is why I support the two motions tabled by Mrs Kluit, who want to do the same. This will probably be developed in the Seventh Action Programme. The reinforced enforcement strategy is very important. You have said that you can regulate that with the environmental services, the NVWA and the D.A. That seems very important to me. I therefore support the legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u115	Thank you. Finally, Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u116	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you to the Minister for the relevant and comprehensive answers. Let me just say a few words about the question that I was actually asking more rhetorically, namely who brought us into this calculation. That's right, us. We should learn a lot from that. It has been extensive about the generic discount. It has become clear to me that only after intervention on, for example, the railroad and the skimming of the total size will the ultimate means be taken and that the discount will then be limited to the overrun. At least that's what I understood. At least that gives some clarity and certainty. Moreover, enforcement is crucial to make everyone themselves responsible. The answer to my question on the assessment of expected manure production remains a little vague, but on the other hand the Minister has made it very clear that there is very little chance that the ceilings will be exceeded at the moment. First of all, that's good news. Secondly, perhaps we should say that in this Chamber today too, and it is also a compliment for the sector. In any case, it has ensured that there is no overrun. I think that's worth a compliment. As far as I am concerned, the Minister has made it clear that this law is important to show confidence to the European Commission that the Netherlands is in order and able to intervene if necessary. In any case, that is enough for my group to support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u117	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. I note that the Minister has the opportunity to respond directly to the questions of the Chamber and give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u118	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna go back to the speakers. Mr Van Pareren has a question about the threshold: what threshold are we going to introduce? This is all about the law that we are going to deal with tomorrow, because the threshold really has to do with the nitrogen law and not with this law. The same applies to the question of the threshold and the legal risks involved. As has already been said, the cabinet will opt for a regional threshold. The level of that threshold has not yet been established, but it also depends on which sources you compare. You can't spend more than what's actually on your deposit to spend. So that also depends on what sources you have to be able to shape that threshold. So there's nothing to say about that right now. Once again, we will have that debate tomorrow, including on the possible legal risks and on how the Council of State has advised on them. Then there is the economic importance of agriculture. Do I see that? Yes, and that's why this bill. This bill ensures that agriculture can work the way it does now. At a time when the derogation is falling, it is damaging the sector and has a very serious impact on agriculture. Finally, the judgment delivered today in the interim proceedings. I think that tomorrow we will bring that back into the debate, because it actually sees the urgency law on nitrogen again. I am therefore happy to discuss this with you tomorrow. Then Mrs Faber. I'm gonna take her in the legal text for a moment, because it's good that we have clarity about what's in it. Mrs Faber cited the explanatory statement. I'm gonna get the legal text myself, if you don't mind. I would like to draw Mrs Faber's attention to Rule 18a. Point D is replaced by the following: "Article 32 is amended as follows: 1. In paragraph 1, the words 'exceeding production in 2002' shall be replaced by 'exceeding production referred to in paragraph 3 of Article 18a'. That's, like, the step we have before we actually go to the generic discount. And the skimming can indeed be used in the event of a threat of overrun. That's the bump before you actually go to the generic discount. The following article talks about the actual generic discount. It states: "A general administrative measure may fix a percentage by which the phosphate duty is reduced at a time fixed in that measure if it is established that the total volume of the production of fertilisers from dairy cows, expressed in kilograms of phosphate or kilograms of nitrogen, has exceeded the maximum volume of that production referred to in Article 18a (2) '. So one is about the skimming. The other is about the generic discount. Then I will take page 6 of the explanatory statement, to which Mrs Faber referred. The explanatory memorandum explains the amendment of the law, but as mentioned above, the law was subsequently amended. The law has been amended in such a way that the skimming can be used in the event of a threat of overrun and the generic discount can only be applied at the time of such overrun. I've been trying to walk through it so systematically. Mrs Faber also asked how I see the sector ceilings. Do I see it as a barrier to the derogation? I'm going through that very systematically. The derogation decision indeed refers to the overall ceiling. It says that that ceiling must be maintained. We do this through the rights systems. They're sector-specific. There are rights systems by sector, for pigs, poultry and dairy sectors. Enforcement is therefore also sector-by-sector. If we were to go down to the overall ceiling alone, the category should also be regulated. Besides pigs, poultry and dairy we also have another category. These include calf farming, rabbits and goats. By the way, we can see that this category is increasing. That is something to keep an eye on, because the category of other rights is not regulated. If it continues to rise, it is likely to push the other sectors back into the overall ceiling. So we are very careful that this is not going to happen. It is therefore a step in the right direction, as Mrs Faber has said, but this is precisely how we ensure that we regulate, or actually maintain, what is also being asked of us by the European Commission. Mr Pijlman asked about the phosphate bank. How can it be opened up? I'm gonna try to explain that to you. The law states that in dairy cows there is a phosphate bank in which phosphate rights can enter. They're being skimmed in paperwork. As one farmer sells it to another, 10% of it gets skimmed. That part ends up in a phosphate bank. That phosphate bank is being paid out to young land-based farmers. That's what the law says now. The problem is that at the moment we have spent too many rights. We have spent more rights than allowed by the European Commission. That is the state aid debate we have just had. It has a value. We've been spending more rights right now. Among other things, as a result of legal proceedings we have conducted, companies were given phosphate rights when they were not there. The Commission says: you have to remove those rights from the market, because that is state aid; that is too much. We're working on that right now. That's what the higher skimming is for. I can't open the phosphate bank until we've gotten all the way under it, otherwise we're going to spend too much rights again. That is why the phosphate bank is not open at the moment, but if it is up to me, we will go there as soon as possible, because then we will not have this whole discussion about having too many rights in the market. I thank Mrs Teunissen for being merciful to me. She can always be merciless about my policy. I think that's a very nice distinction. I also think we should just do it that way. I am not saying this in order to be clear, but I find that this is often the intention in this Chamber. As a ruler, it's always nice to be here. She is indeed to some extent merciless about my policy. That is true, because she has a broad sense of what is needed, but we will undoubtedly have more to do about it in the forthcoming debates. Mrs Kluit states that there is a lack of risk management within the cabinet and asks me to discuss it. I do not fully recognise myself in that picture, but I also find it complicated to decide for colleagues whether, in Mrs Kluit's words, they would also have a lack of risk management. In all cases, I think you should act on things. It has different dimensions. Some things you can't see coming at all and some things you might see coming at a slightly higher rate. However, I do not think that, on the basis of this law, I should now enter into the discussion on risk management in the Cabinet. Perhaps that is something you could do with the Prime Minister at some point, with political considerations or something like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u119	What I mean by that is that we let ourselves be confronted with the PAS, when, of course, there was a statement earlier from which we could have deduced that we were in trouble. In the case of the derogation, that could also be the case. I actually expect the cabinet to have a plan for the people who are going to be very concerned, even if that plan is in a very deep drawer. I want you to know that we can do better than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u120	I understand that that is indeed Mrs Kluit's view. We can have a whole discussion about how things have turned out with the PAS, what the ruling of the European Court of Justice is and how ultimately the decision of the Council of State has been; we will undoubtedly do so again tomorrow. But it's not like we didn't have any preparation or anything at all. There are also Mrs Kluit's two motions and also her remark that we need sufficient time and capacity to manage the crisis. I just said we did. We have also attracted additional people to be able to shape the approach to the problem of nitrogen. It is not always the case that the commitment of more people then offers equal solace. You must also ensure that people are put in the right places, although I am pleased that Mrs Kluit is concerned about the well-being of our people, because it is always good to take that into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u121	It was actually about enough people for the long-term approach and therefore sufficient capacity and attention to it, but I understand that it...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u122	Yes, of course, that's quite an exchange of things, because you're also dealing with the people who are working on the long-term approach. When they are in the middle of a crisis and when you get more people "in the middle of the crisis," the long-term approach is again more secure. So there's an interaction between those two. Shall I make the motions at the end, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u123	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u124	Okay. I must say that I find the title mentioned by Mr Koole, 'Not everything can be done', striking. I think that's the bigger story, too. We can sometimes reflect not only on agriculture but more generally as a society on everything we want and do in this country and whether all this is compatible with other matters that are also essential. That's a broader discussion. I think it's good to give that a reflection for once. I think that this is something that is manifested in the awareness that we have lived on a number of fronts and that we now have to make a number of choices, also in the measures that the cabinet is now taking more. Mrs Huizinga-Heringa gave, if I may say so, a rather adequate summary of the key points of my speech. I am glad that I was able to surprise her with the announcement that water quality among the derogation companies is usually better than among non-derogation companies. This is also due to the strict requirements of derogation. Farmers therefore have to stick to that and do so. I very much share Mr Janssen's view that there is nothing worse than having information and not sharing it and doing nothing about it. I've experienced that this doesn't happen on its own. How do people find each other and how do we ensure that the information that one has is actually shared with the other and that the other also understands that there is some added value in it? That is precisely the part of the area-based approach. We have chosen to ask parties to sit together literally to say "what information do you have and what information do you have?', and then visualize this with each other. That's kind of complicated. Everyone looks from their own perspective at a situation to assess it. I very much agree that there is real profit to be made there. That is exactly the line by which we are shaping the reinforced enforcement strategy. Mr Janssen states that the discount is the stick behind the door. Perhaps that is indeed a good starting point. You never want it to happen, but it's there and you know there's something to do to get out of there. There is a more or less effect to pay attention to this. Mr Gerbrandy felt that the derogation should be abolished in the long term. I have just explained that from an environmental point of view derogation also has advantages. I think that we should not only be blinding ourselves to the means of the derogation, but also look at the goal that we are going to achieve with it. If this leads to an increase in environmental quality, we must take that into account in our assessment of whether or not to maintain it. It has been asked whether I can regulate the enforcement strategy properly with, for example, the State's Attorney's Office. Cooperation with the other supervisors is at the heart of the enhanced enforcement strategy. The co-operation with the D.A.'s office is part of this. The Office shall be associated with the operational and administrative consultations. We are also taking steps in the field of information sharing. I have just shared this with Mr Janssen. For example, the NVWA also participates in the National Information and Expertise Centre, the LIEC. I also agree with regional authorities on the sharing of information for monitoring purposes. This is also the result of a question from Mr Janssen. Then there is Mr Schalk, who says that enforcement is crucial. Yeah, that's right. Enforcement by the authorities, but also by the sector which itself feels the responsibility to do the good things in a good way. The possibility of exceeding the ceilings is indeed what it looks like today. As a result of a question from Mrs Faber, I have just indicated that we must also pay close attention to the other category. That is a category that is not regulated. In the past figures we see that it ends everywhere under the ceiling, sometimes even a little down, but that it has grown in the category other than. This growth is not regulated and needs to be monitored, because it should not push away other categories so that other sectors are affected. It is a task that lies with me to keep an eye on it. The way things look right now, we're under the ceilings on all these things. And lucky for you, I say. Mr. Chairman. This was the answer. Then I have to respond to two motions. The first motion, on letter E, deals with the development of the policy options based on the reduction of the derogation and invites it to be involved in the further decision-making process. I have just indicated that the derogation companies are doing well from an environmental point of view. Water quality is structurally better than non-derogation companies. I would not take as a starting point that an environmental benefit should be reduced. We really need to be careful what we're doing there. I would like to look at what the derogation means in the light of developments towards circular agriculture. I have just said that we have the scenarios surrounding the review of manure policy in the PBL. If I have to add all kinds of scenarios to that now, it is complicated, also in terms of process, and I get the pace out of the process. I'm not going to do that this way, and that's why I'm not advising this motion. The second motion calls for a plan of action with a specific timeline to meet the standards set out in the Nitrates Directive and to inform the Court before 1 May 2020. The sixth action programme for the Nitrates Directive is intended precisely to comply with that directive. That sixth action programme has also been approved by the European Commission, so in sec we already have that plan of action. This is called the Sixth Action Programme. After the sixth action programme comes the seventh action programme, which contains a fairly detailed list of what we all have to do to comply with it, so I must therefore also reject this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u125	I do not have any questions about the motions we have just discussed, but about the question before that, which I was chewing on. The Minister indicated that it now seems that we remain under ceilings but that the category could frustrate that. That scared the hell out of me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u126	The other category is still below the ceilings, so it is not that they are exceeded, but we do see a slight increase in that category, while we generally see with the others that the production is fairly stable or that something has come underneath. It's true that we have to keep an eye on that. They're not big categories in themselves. Therefore regulation is complex. If we see that certain sectors are getting bigger and other sectors are starting to be pushed away, we need to take a serious look at what we are going to do about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u127	Finally, Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u128	It'll be my ignorance, but I don't have much of a picture of that category. My first question is what am I supposed to think about? The second question: if we know so precisely that this category leads to an overrun, then surely that cannot affect a final generic discount?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u129	The discussion in its entirety, why you want to steer on these sector ceilings, is to prevent one category from paying for the other category. That is exactly why we are not just sitting on those national ceilings. What categories are in it? There's goats, sheep, ducks, rabbits and horses in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u130	Enough, enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u131	All kinds of categories. I think the water buffalo's in there, too. Yeah, she's in there, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u132	One more question about the two motions tabled by GroenLinks, which the Minister dissuaded. You say that derogation actually has a lot of environmental benefits. You consistently mention the state of the water as an example, but what about soil quality? Is it not also true that the soil quality is declining due to a derogation? This is a growing concern when it comes to biodiversity. So derogation, yes, under the current circumstances, but then you could reason that if you comply with the Nitrates Directive, you will fertilise in a different way. Perhaps you'd like to give me a more detailed explanation of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u133	I'd like to be brief, because we're about to move on to another debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u134	The Nitrates Directive also focuses on water quality. The Nitrates Directive aims to ensure that water quality is good. The derogation to the Nitrates Directive must not lead to water quality deterioration. In fact, the derogation now leads to better water quality among those derogation companies than for non-derogation companies. This has to do with, for example, the requirements we impose on grassland and the species of crops. Soil is also concerned with the run-off sensitivity of nitrate to the water. We usually see, but I generalize a little bit, that in non-derogation companies there is more work with washed-out crops, which means that you go to a worse water quality. That is one of the reasons why the derogation, because of its strict requirements, leads to better water quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u135	Mrs. Kluit, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u136	That would be a good reason to visualize it. You're acting like we want there to be a certain outcome. The motion is about putting it in the picture so we can compare it properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u137	We have information about the state of water quality among the derogation companies. I can send it to your room, if that helps you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u138	Thank you. I see Mrs. Clutch nodding yes. Or are we gonna go again...?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u139	It is a question of presenting it as a policy option under the Seventh Programme, in conjunction with a derogation or no derogation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u140	The Minister has the floor and I shall close this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u141	We have information about water quality among the derogation companies. Because you have that insight, you can see what that derogation does with water quality. I don't need to get any more information about that, because I have it. The question is whether you will then include this in a policy option to abolish the derogation. My point is that we now see that water quality in non-derogation companies is worse.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u142	Mrs. Kluit, really for the very last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u143	The motion isn't about stopping or phasing it down. The motion is about bringing it into view within the framework of the programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u144	I'll just read the motion. It says: "to develop several policy options based on the phasing-out of derogations." That's what it says.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u145	Yeah, but winding down isn't the same as stopping.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u146	Okay, I'll read it when it's finished and then it disappears.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u147	Thank you, Mrs Kluit. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-7.u148	I've come to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. Then I suggest that tomorrow we vote on the bill. Finally, I propose that tomorrow we vote on the motions tabled.
