ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-30.u1	The next item is the VAO Personnel Defence. A warm word of welcome to both the Minister and the Secretary of State for Defence. We have five participants on the side of the Chamber, four of whom will speak. The first is already impatient; that is Mrs Belhaj of the D66 Group. Like everyone else, she has two minutes' speaking time. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-30.u2	Mr. Chairman. Since 2014 we have been debating the use of the toxic substance chromium-6 whose harmful effects have been known since 1973. I welcome the current arrangement, but I will not be satisfied until the second RIVM study has been carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-30.u3	Chrome-6 isn't until after.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-30.u4	Okay, I'll get the other one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-30.u5	We'll do the STER commercial first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-30.u6	That's what you love.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-30.u7	Only if you figure in that, Mrs. Karabulut. We'll start over.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-30.u8	Mr. Chairman. I apologize. Mr. Chairman. The VAO Staff. Human resources are extremely important to the Defense Department. D66 is also looking forward to concluding a collective agreement. Unfortunately, we, as politicians, are not dealing with these collective agreements at this stage, but I would like to remind the rulers that it is a matter of urgency. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that exposure to burnpits' emissions may pose a threat to the physical safety of military personnel exposed to them;]] [[Considering that the Security Defence Inspectorate (IVD) oversees physical and social security in the Defence Department and may advise the Minister on all matters relating to security including operations in mission areas, requested and unsolicited;]] [[Whereas exposure of Dutch military personnel to burnpit emissions during operations in mission areas is an urgent security issue for Defence;]] [[calls on the Government to have the IVD investigate the safety management of burnpits and to advise the Government on how to prevent exposure of Dutch military personnel to burnpits' emissions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Belhaj. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-X-112]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-30.u9	In Saint Martin, of course, we suffer from a waste heap that is regularly inflamed. Also there are our soldiers present. Does Mrs Belhaj suggest that these kind of waste mountains that are on fire are included?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-30.u10	I'm talking about all the burnpits where there's a risk to the military. In particular, I want the security measures that you can take to be examined by the IVD. That's just a regular risk inventory you can do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-30.u11	This is not a real burnpit, but just a waste heap that is burning on an island called St.Maarten and that is how its waste is treated. Is this going to be involved in this investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-30.u12	If you think this is interesting, I invite you to table a supplementary motion. You're also the spokesperson for Kingdom Relations. This motion concerns the burnpits on missions. D66 is convinced that we can take the right measures without losing sight of the fact that there can always be no situation where this is not possible. During the investigation, we should ask the IVD to consider what measures you can take, including on the basis of experience abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-30.u13	Your second motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-30.u14	Yes, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that emissions from burnpits may cause health damage to military personnel exposed to them;]] [[noting that, in the treatment of waste itself, the Defence Department no longer uses burnpits, but that there is a possibility that in the mission area waste may still be incinerated through burnpits, which can still expose the Dutch military to the emissions of burnpits;]] [[Considering that, in the "Safe Defence Organisation" approach, Defence identifies making the work environment a top priority and that employees should be able to count on being a reliable employer, actively promoting safe working and taking action in the event of insecurity signals;]] [[calls on the Government to take all possible measures to prevent exposure to and health damage caused by burnpit emissions as much as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Belhaj. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-X-113]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-30.u15	Then I will end with the words I started with: if the staff need to be on one side, as indicated in the Defence Note, we kindly request that a collective agreement be reached as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-30.u16	Thank you. Then Mrs Diks from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-30.u17	Mr. Chairman. We have made one motion from GroenLinks, but I would like to make a few comments about the staff. It is clear that the security situation for staff has been under serious pressure for a long time. One of the nasty examples of this is the heat injury, which we discussed extensively in the AO Staff. Many measures have been taken, for example with regard to heat injury. What I am still concerned about and what I like to hear from the rulers is the following question. We have put a lot of things on paper, but is this all being done properly in practice? Can we, as a Chamber, trust that the things you submit to the service from your political capacity, indeed, will all be carried out in practice? We still have these concerns at GroenLinks. Then there's the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Government intends to add additional resources to the Defence budget in spring note to meet NATO's wishes;]] [[Considering that a recent survey conducted by BNR among members of the AFMP military trade union shows that the confidence of defence personnel in the political leadership is still at a low point, and that it is part of this that after months of negotiations no new collective agreement has yet been agreed for Defence personnel;]] [[Whereas it is important that fine words about the future unification of defence personnel should also be translated into political decisions, and that this has not been sufficiently done so far;]] [[calls on the Government to use a substantial part of the resources to be added to the Spring Note to cover an improved collective agreement for Defence personnel and other aspects of good employership in Defence,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Diks. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-X-114]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-30.u18	However sympathetic I find this motion, the Spring note and the means available from it are, in my view, occasional money. Do you want that to be used only once, or do you want structural money to be added, because collective bargaining is about structural money?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-30.u19	Mrs. Diks asked you to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-30.u20	Yeah, all right. I am also aware that there is a difference between structural and occasional, indeed. If I have understood correctly the government's commitment, it is very clearly the intention to increase the amount of money for defence, to work towards the 2% NATO standard. We have also discussed my proposal extensively in the AO Staff. If money is the problem of achieving an improved collective agreement, then I would like to look at structural funding in the spring note, not only to buy goods and iron, but also to improve staff working conditions very clearly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-30.u21	Very good. Thank you. Then Mrs Karabulut of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-30.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We've been discussing personnel policy in the Defense Department. Although the directors constantly stress that the staff is on one side, this is far from consistent with practice. There's been incidents every time. The staff complains about the salary. There is no new collective agreement yet. We think that the staff should really come first now. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Ministry of Defence states that personnel come first;]] [[Whereas the policy of security, health and social affairs of the Defence staff is constantly disenfranchised by serious errors, blunders, imperfections and mismanagement;]] [[noting that a relatively simple social policy in the form of a collective agreement is not achieved;]] [[noting that these structural abuses lead to the outflow of seated personnel and that inflow is insufficient to maintain capacity utilisation;]] [[Whereas additional investments in the Defence budget are not sufficiently made available for all aspects of a social and safe personnel policy;]] [[calls on the government to put in place a moratorium on investment in military capital until personnel policy is fully in place in all aspects,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-X-115]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-30.u23	Mr. Chairman. It should not be surprised that this line is entirely in line with our vision, namely that we do not have to fight permanent wars in the highest spectrum of violence, but that the staff must be properly treated and finally get the collective agreement and the conditions under which they can do their job properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-30.u24	Thank you. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Kerstens of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-30.u25	Mr. Chairman. People's trust in Defense as an employer is low. I have four suggestions in the form of motions to work on restoring trust. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the confidence of employees in Defence as an employer is very low;]] [[noting that as a result very many employees leave Defence;]] [[calls on the Government to present in the short term a plan of action to contribute to the restoration of such trust,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Ministry of Defence has indicated at an earlier stage that it has objected to the RVU fines imposed in the past by the Tax Administration in the event of retirement;]] [[noting that these fines involve significant amounts;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that, in the event of the agreement of the Defence Committee, the corresponding amounts are used to the benefit of the Defence staff, for example in the form of working conditions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas Defence personnel should always be able to report abuses and/or disasters in a safe environment and without repercussions;]] [[noting that employees who have made such a notification have sometimes been put under pressure to sign confidentiality statements;]] [[whereas, although these contracts have been described as misunderstandings and/or miscommunications afterwards, it is important to send out a clear signal on this issue now in order to increase the confidence and awareness of employees;]] [[calls on the Government to make it clear once and for all that it is not up to it to sign confidentiality statements when reporting abuses and calamities under pressure,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Christmas. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-X-116]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Christmas. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-X-117]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Christmas. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-X-118]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-30.u26	I say that I realise, of course, that an exception can be made if, for example, state security is at stake. That's okay. That's okay. Then the final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that defence, which is already suffering from a major shortage of personnel, is not sufficiently successful in binding its people;]] [[Whereas the confidence of the men and women of our military forces in Defence as an employer is low;]] [[whereas a good collective agreement and pension scheme are the preferred means to show the people of Defense that they are valued;]] [[noting that the lengthy and difficult process of achieving this good collective agreement and pension scheme, as well as the initial outcome of the negotiations, have damaged rather than damaged the above-mentioned confidence;]] [[Notes that the rapid establishment of a good collective agreement and pension scheme is of great importance in the process of increasing the trust of the people of Defence;]] [[calls on the Government to release further funds in the Defence budget or beyond in the short term so that a good collective agreement and pension scheme can be achieved quickly,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kerstens and Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-X-119]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-30.u27	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-30.u28	Mr. Chairman. As a result of the debate, I would like to make a number of comments. In general, I would like to say to the Chamber that the Secretary of State and my staff are, of course, on one side. We chose to choose people in the Defence Note. We're taking steps, step by step, to work on improvement. This applies to both the equipment and the organisation. This is extremely important for us to see all the time. We have actually realised from the beginning that this will go slowly. We talked to your room about that, too. In this sense, we have also used it and discussed it with the Chamber in general. We have also taken a number of steps at the request of the Chamber. For example, with regard to security policy, at the request of the Chamber, a visitation committee has been set up, following successfully what happens to the safety plan. That committee has now started and has sent an interim report to the Chamber. Soon the Secretary of State and I will continue to talk to the committee because they will eventually have to deliver their first report completely. So the Chamber can rest assured that we are working hard with each other to take steps step by step. I'm going to move on to the motions now. Then I shall begin Mrs Belhaj's motion on burnpits. In general, we have discussed this extensively. In this motion, Ms Belhaj asked the government to have the IVD investigate security management regarding burnpits and advise the government on how to prevent exposure of Dutch military personnel to burnpits' emissions for a long time. In the debate we also mentioned that our military work by definition in environments where we are not entirely responsible for that environment itself. What we can do about it, we have to do it. I have undertaken to send a letter to the Chamber in the AO on the reports on burnpits and on the investigations that have been carried out from different countries. I would therefore ask Mrs Belhaj to hold this motion. Next week, the letter will come your way. I would like to see whether I can also comment in this letter on what is in this motion. If that is not enough, it can always be activated again. Then I can also take into account the points raised by Mr Bosman, for example. I'll have to report the number of reports. I can already say that there were 276 notifications on 1 April last, but I shall go into what we see in that letter. The CEAG would look into it, including the international investigations. I shall therefore turn to this point. The IVD can do research but is of course ultimately the inspection, the supervisor. Our Commander of the Armed Forces is responsible for the execution; he has to look at the execution and how it will work out in the end. In principle, this will have to be checked by the IVD again, but I would like to see if that research side adds anything to that. So I would ask Mrs Belhaj to hold this motion and then we can discuss it further in the light of the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-30.u29	I am prepared to do so, and I hope, of course, that parts of this motion will come back in that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-30.u30	At the request of Mrs Belhaj, I propose her motion (35000-X, No. 112). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-30.u31	I shall now come to Mrs Belhaj's motion on item No. 113. She says: you must do everything you can to avoid as much as possible the emissions caused by burnpits' emissions. I have also said in the debate with your Chamber in general consultation that I will work on this with everything we have in us. So I'd like to leave that motion to the Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 114 by Mrs Diks. I would also like to say a few words about the motion on item No. 115 by Mrs Karabulut and on the motion for a resolution on item No. 115 by Mrs Karabulut, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party They are all about the budget/spring note. On the motion in part No. 114 I would like to say the following. That is a request from Mrs Diks to devote a substantial part of the resources to be added to the Spring Note to the collective agreement. Well, you know, of course, that the cabinet's commitment is that resources may be added to the Spring Note. But for that the starting point is the national plan, made by the Minister of Foreign Affairs and presented by the Prime Minister and me. In the letter we wrote about it in the direction of your Chamber, we indicated the capacities we are deploying. We have also written down some about the staff, because without staff you will ultimately have nothing to do with capacity. We have also set out a number of points which relate to how we look at the future in this respect. Then let me take a look at this motion, and also at the motion in part No. 115, which refers to the defence budget and redeployments, and also to the motion for a resolution on item No. Mr Kerstens's 119, which states that in the short term, within the Defence budget or beyond, that is to say the Spring Note, if you are talking about "short term" money must be released for collective agreements and staff in this case. Of course, our NATO plan includes staff. But in the process, of course, this is something we cannot say anything about now, because you know: the cabinet itself talks about these processes first, and then it will come up with proposals in your direction. It is a process that is completed from the national plan. That's exactly what we've sent you. According to this plan, we must also say something about NATO. In the ordinary budget procedure, of course, we talked about the distribution of resources. No further changes have been made to this effect either. As far as the collective agreement is concerned, the Secretary of State will undoubtedly talk a little bit more about that, but it is true that a process is going on under the leadership of an independent chairman, Han Noten. That process requires two parties. That is a process that hopefully will come to a successful conclusion soon. But the Spring paper is about that national plan. That's the point. And you know that the process and the discussion about it take place through budgetary bilaterals. They're run with all the rulers. The cabinet does not make any further announcements about this. These motions are therefore in no way proportionate to the route we are going, so I would like to make the motions on the items Nos. 114, 115, the Secretary of State will say something about the ammunition side, and 119 to that effect, because we should not run that route like that. So the motions on the pieces number. 114, 115 and 119 I would like to advise against our side.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-30.u32	The Minister speaks of "the process," but the process does not run. "staff first" doesn't work. A new collective agreement has been under way for months. The staff is very dissatisfied. There is still no fair settlement for the chromium-6 victims. And the line gets longer and longer. Is it too much to ask from the House of Representatives for that process that you attach so much importance to, but which means that we do invest billions in all kinds of expensive large weapons but still do not have a collective agreement to turn around and say: now no large ammunition, until the personnel are really in the first place and the personnel problems have been solved?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-30.u33	The collective bargaining process is a process that we are responsible for, but it will require two. You know better than anyone that you and the employer and the employees need to come to a collective agreement. The sooner the better. We agree with that; we fully agree with that. An independent chairman, Mr Han Noten, is working on this; you know that. I sincerely hope that it will be completed as soon as possible. But staff without proper resources isn't good either. Staff without ammo isn't good either. That is a path which the Secretary of State will continue to discuss. A D letter has already been sent about that. We need ammo, or the staff won't even be able to work. You then come, on the other hand, with the statement: soon the soldiers will have to shout 'pang, pang' again, and we do not want that. We are working step by step to improve the framework conditions. This means that we invest in our staff. We have shown this in the Defence Note and in the budget. That's what we talked about. It's a negotiation. There was an agreement; you know that. It's a negotiation. That's a process that I also hope will happen quickly, but it must take its course. We don't do well to have staff without good clothes, without good resources, without good equipment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-30.u34	Finally. We were not responsible for the 'pang, pang' situation. They have created previous cabinets because people had to go on missions to Iraq, Afghanistan and know-it-all where not all were, while staff, supplies and conditions were neglected. That has to end now. No one says that ammunition should not be purchased, but we do not need to buy those big rockets if we know that the staff is running away because of unattractive working conditions. If the Minister says that this is not her proposal, then I would like to hear what it is. When will these problems be resolved and when will the staff realise that it really comes first?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-30.u35	We are working on that improvement step by step. We can see that, too. There's ammo. There's a better way to work with material. But our people need equipment to work at all. We are responsible for making these improvements step by step. The process of working conditions must have its course. The process towards the Spring Paper is not a process that needs to be intervened on. That's what we're flying into from the national plan that's in place. It does include staff. You will see that again when the government has decided. Of course it is bad enough that the route takes quite a long time. We all do. We agree on that. But we have to do it carefully and with each other. In a collective agreement process, you always need two in order to reach an agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-30.u36	I started my contribution by focusing on the safety of the staff. For this reason, GroenLinks has been able to support some of the replacements. People in the armed forces must be able to do their work under safe conditions, with the right equipment properly maintained. We have tried, in particular with this motion, to give you the opportunity to consider structural, substantial improvements within the Defence Pay House in the spring note. In the NATO pledge letter, I was given the impression that you focused in particular on the purchase of iron, so to speak, and stuff. That probably has a little more influence when you demonstrate it in the United States, but we are really concerned that the situation of the staff should be improved. If you need more money for this, you can knock on the door at GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-30.u37	I saw that, and that's good. In that sense, I think it is good that we, Chamber and Cabinet, constantly reflect on possible ways of doing the best we can. We do that in the debates, for our staff. But when it comes to the process towards a spring note, which is an interim update, the cabinet has, of course, put it in the national plan for NATO, which includes staff. There is no misunderstanding about that. There's something about that in the letter. That, of course, is what this is about, because that was the question that NATO has put to us. Of course, Mrs. Diks knows that too. We must show each other a credible path. On the one hand, we must show how we invest in NATO's capabilities and, on the other hand, we must have a credible path towards that 2% by 2024. We've filed a plan with no money. This must be balanced against other priorities. The Cabinet will consider the follow-up to the Spring paper to cover what is in the plan. I understand your point, but the NATO plan is the point of the Spring Paper. In our budget, of course, we have also made substantial funds available for staff. The Secretary of State will say something about that too. That, of course, is what we use, looking at the negotiating situation we are in.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-30.u38	Very good. Mrs. Diks, finalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-30.u39	Yeah, I can finish this. Look, you've got yourself...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-30.u40	"The Minister has himself."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-30.u41	Excuse me, the Minister himself took the word "believable." I can imagine that a plan of any kind will become more credible when you can also count on staff who are there and are properly paid. We need to bet together on a healthy armed force. What I hear too much about you right now is that you're very committed to iron and stuff. You keep saying...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-30.u42	"The Minister keeps saying."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-30.u43	Excuse me, the minister keeps saying she's with the staff. The Secretary of State will probably do the same soon. But the point is that people in the workplace don't see that. The effect of this is that an incredible drain has started. What I fear is that you instantly bought a lot of iron with great enthusiasm and have no people to control or maintain it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-30.u44	Very briefly, because I want to move on to the next VAO.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-30.u45	I get it. It's all going one step at a time. That is, of course, what we see in the end. We are fully committed to this. I see that steps are being taken, and that is what Mrs Diks sees when she walks around our workplace. Mr Kerstens cited a survey. It is, of course, painful and understandable that such a survey has been carried out, but you can only make improvements step by step. The staff and the good stuff must always go on together. That's the way we see it. So the judgment remains the same. The Secretary of State will say something about the ammunition side. The motion in part No. Mr Kerstens asked for a plan of action. I have already said that we find what is being found painful but also understandable. It's not new to us, just like it's not new to you. We've realized from the beginning that when it comes to trust in the Defense Department, we have to come a long way. That is not because we are necessarily responsible for it, but because we are faced with it in this case. We have also always said that we find this a difficult task and that what we are now investing as a cabinet is this 1.5 billion, but a good start to achieve a large-scale recovery in the end. We have put that down from the beginning, from day one. But with a plan to work on restoring trust, I don't think you're adding anything. I really want to discourage this motion. I think it's about doing things, showing things, talking to people. One of the things I've noticed in the defense department is that we already have a huge bureaucracy. Then, please, let us not write another plan of action, but just get to work and show what we stand for. So this is what I'm talking about. Then I hope that Mr Kerstens will help, that we will simply show each other that we are doing the right things and that we are working on that together. So I would certainly advise against this motion, because I do not want to put time in writing plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-30.u46	Mr. Chairman. I shall just let this one go, because I am standing here on the occasion of the motion in part No. 119. The need for a good collective agreement with the Defense Department is clear. That, I think, is what everyone thinks; that is what the people of Defense deserve, and I think that is a necessary step in that necessary restoration of confidence that I was talking about. I also understand, in part, that the Minister takes the three motions on this collective agreement together, but there is still a difference between those motions. I'm just going to say a few words about mine. The operative part is: "Requests the government to release additional money in the short term (within the Defence budget or beyond). I would like to hear the Minister about the scope I give her to show all the creativity within the Defence budget that can help to achieve this good collective agreement quickly. I am not talking about a spring budget here. I'm talking about the space there is. That wasn't cast whole in concrete. Could the Minister say something about that? 'Cause I was just trying to give her some space.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-30.u47	Yes, Mr. Chairman. But I also see 'out there', as you can see.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-30.u48	There's the word "or" in there, so you can choose.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-30.u49	I've read it, but I've taken my judgment together because it says "outside it." You can rest assured that we will use all the creativity we need to achieve a collective agreement, including within our own budget. We have a budget; that is what you know, because you have set the budget and the budget right lies with you. If we're gonna have to slide, we're gonna have to look at that, too. You know, of course, when it comes to salaries, that we have to stay within national relations, but there are more things we talk about. That has not escaped your notice, and that is what is being discussed. If we have to and can do something about it, then we will not fail to do so; and we will certainly just look at our own budget. But it is not your job, it is our job to do this well, as an employer with our employees. And we will use all the creativity that is needed for that, but we just have to let the process go the way it goes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-30.u50	Rounding, short, pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-30.u51	I understand that all creativity needs to be deployed, but I also assume that the Minister understands that we will become a little cynical when we have been a year further and that creativity has not yet led to anything. That's why I put creativity on the table from my point of view. I think it would also be an important signal if the rulers indicated, for example following that motion in part No. 119: We are going to look again closely at bringing this good collective agreement within our reach.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-30.u52	Now Mr. Kerstens implies we don't already do that. I've tried to tell you that we're doing the right thing, that we're putting all the creativity into it. However, I am far from making the point about 'the year ahead'. That's just not right. I really need to take that away. There was an agreement. There was an agreement between the employer and the trade unions. So we had a deal with the unions. You know more than anyone how the trial is going. And then we started over. So it's not like nothing's been done for a year. There was just an agreement concluded by the Secretary of State in this case, so I really want to throw that far from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-30.u53	Very good. That's listed on this one. Mr. Kerstens just a moment longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-30.u54	If the suggestion is that I would have said nothing was done for a year, I guess I didn't articulate properly. What I note is that despite the fact that it seems that creativity has been called upon for over a year, it has not been enough, given the response of the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-30.u55	Mrs Karabulut, I have just heard you in this whole list. What can I please you with now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-30.u56	On the final motion, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-30.u57	I'd like to be brief and pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-30.u58	I don't quite understand. There's just a penny issue. The staff wants better working conditions. They don't see you and the Secretary of State putting the staff on one. For example, the union speaks of 150 million. The staff rejected the previous offer. When can we expect a step from the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-30.u59	Of course, we agreed with the same unions, directors at the time, so I just called for the Secretary of State to agree with the trade union leaders that there was a good deal. Of course, the staff said something about that. I also hear all kinds of sums going, but you know better than anyone that if you negotiate, then perhaps Mr Kerstens knows better than anyone else that you are not going to mention amounts in public, because then you will not negotiate. You negotiate informally at first and then formally close it. Mr Kerstens assumes that we do not use creativity, and that is a false assumption, which I cast far from my point of view. We're not negotiating in the Lower House, I'm just saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-30.u60	Rounding, short, pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-30.u61	That is incomprehensible, because the Minister does negotiate with NATO in public and promises additional billions over the next few years, and the Minister gets a gross shortage of staff in surveys on average of a four-year period and the Minister does not tell us in any way when that additional step for staff will come. This story's been going on for years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-30.u62	I'm not negotiating with NATO in public at all. I have outlined the process and said that we must. The task of the Prime Minister was to present a national plan for NATO, in accordance with the agreements that you know were made in 2014. We have indicated something about the capacities in which we invest and also about the people. We don't negotiate in public at all. We have declared our process to NATO. The NATO process is not exactly our budgetary process. We have indicated that in our process the first possible way forward, weighed against other points, is the Spring Note. That's what we do. So you shouldn't make a caricature out of that. That is simply a serious process that we must go through seriously. I think you know better than anyone that we are dangling at the bottom of NATO's lists as a rich country. That does not affect the investments we have to make and want to make for our staff. I told you, I thought it was painful but understandable. I am not going to dwell on what was asked out in the end. Maybe you should take another look at that survey. But you can be sure that we will do everything we can to achieve a collective agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-30.u63	Very well, thank you. Then the Secretary of State will have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-30.u64	Mr. Chairman. Much has already been said, including on collective bargaining. I also mentioned this in the general discussion: sometimes you should not disturb a brooding chicken. That also applies in this case, Mrs Karabulut. I understand there's a lot of questions about it. I think you're saying what the expectations are. I certainly don't blame you for that. You are right to draw attention to this, as is Mrs Belhaj. However, as the Minister has just pointed out, it is a matter of a process that you have to go through with two parties of employer and employee. I sent you a letter yesterday in response to questions from Mrs Belhaj concerning, among other things, vacancies, vacant posts and so on. You can see that we have to draw from a small pond. Every year 48,000 interested parties register with the Defense Department, with a few hundred VeVa students. You then have to select the people who both physically and psychologically meet the criteria. Eventually 75% of the people who applied, 15,000 people, fall off. That is really a task we have in an organization that needs to grow. On the other hand, we see that every year about 3,600 soldiers leave the service, sooner than we want. We know with each other that we are early to say goodbye to a large part of the military under their phase 2 contract. But, yes, in this labour market, soldiers, with the skills they have, are naturally wanted by other employers who are also anxiously waiting for new staff. We realize that. That also makes it wider. The terms of employment agreement is very important, as is the new pension scheme and the new wage building, but you also have to look at how to offer perspective to your staff. I'm doing all the conversations now, too. You will see that one wants to stay, but that is not possible in the current model. You can also see, for example, that one cannot be promoted. If you know you don't have that perspective, but that you can get it from another company, that's a real trigger. That's what you hear in conversations with the staff when they ask why they're taking that step. Mr. Chairman. I shall now move on to the motions, because I see that you want to speed up...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-30.u65	Don't get me started.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-30.u66	So that's what I'm gonna try to do. The motion has already been dissuaded by the Minister. You received a D letter from me last year on investment in ammunition supplies. I would also like to make the point that it has also been established by the Chamber that it is necessary, precisely for the employment and safety of our military personnel, that they can work and practice with the right equipment and the right equipment. The Minister has already given an example of this. What we are doing now is only for the main task number 2, the international legal order. That's what ammunition supplies are for. I am working not only for main task 2, but also for main task 1 to make clear what that means for ammunition stocks, both in terms of deployment and in terms of practice, but also in terms of clothing and also in terms of what is called 'operational infrastructure' with a very nice word. Then you're talking about the tents, the heaters and whatever you need, regardless of whether you're operating in the highest spectrum of violence, for your defense commitment, when it comes to your first main task. As the Minister also pointed out, it's good to realize that it's not or-or. It's and-and, because our military also want good combat boots, good combat suits, a good tent and plenty of ammunition. Those are all kinds of things that go with it. I would like to move on to Mr Kerstens' motion on item No. 117 on the RVU levy. I think we're in agreement on that point. It is not for nothing that I have also indicated, in connection with the CDA's parliamentary questions, that I object to the RVU tax imposed. I don't have an answer to that yet. That is why I would ask Mr Kerstens to hold his motion, because I would first like to know what will come out of it. I would like to stress that this debate was held under the previous cabinet, Rutte II, with the then Minister of Social Affairs, the then Secretary of State for Finance and the then Minister of Defence. Social Affairs emphasized that the aim of the tax imposed on Defence was an incentive which one would like to lay down with employers, as Social Affairs had also proposed. I myself think you should look at that differently, because we have a law from 1966, which was much earlier than the RVU tax. That is why I have objected. That is why I would like to await the ruling, so I would really ask Mr Kerstens to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-30.u67	I call Mr Kerstens.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-30.u68	Someone asked me if I had a green light. That's the case. The operative part actually says that money went from DOD to the IRS; if the verdict is positive for the Defense Department, where we're all thumbs-up just about every night, then that money goes back to DOD. The operative part asks whether this money can be used in one way or another for the benefit of the people. The Secretary of State says: wait for the verdict. Isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-30.u69	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-30.u70	I'll hold the motion for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-30.u71	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-30.u72	At the request of Mr Kerstens, I propose his motion (35000-X, No. 117). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-30.u73	Finally, the motion in part No. 118.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-30.u74	Last time, I don't know which VAO that was. Mr Kerstens tabled a similar motion. I asked: let's look at that again, because I think we mean the same thing; only it might be there, but I'm reading it differently. In his explanatory statement, Mr Kerstens pointed out that it is not a question of explicitly excluding people who take secrecy from their work. With that comment I give the motion judgment Chamber. I think that is a good intention. Mrs. Diks had asked another question about the heat injury. The Minister and I have agreed to give you an insight into all the reports that have been made in the annual report anyway. Then you will see an overview of 5,000 reports covering heat injury, cold injury, fire safety, whatever you can think of. You will therefore see the numbers of these cases. We think it's important to report that once a year. As a result of Kelvin Bosman's tragic accident, I indicated that we didn't just look at the Royal Marechaussee. They have implemented these measures, but we believe that this should be taken on a wider scale because it is not just a KMar problem. Just in the initial training courses, where people want to show themselves and you have to show yourself, you see that they are going for that. Yeah, the instructors are on this, too. I have also indicated in the letter of the Chamber that this must be permanent and that we are going to set up a knowledge centre for Defence Breed. But of course this remains a combination of instructor and individual. You also have to make sure that you ring the bell in time, while that is a difficult situation in the initial training. That's why we're looking at that also in De Stentor.It's about technical aids, a heat monitor that keeps track of what's happening during the training and with which you can look per individual. So, yeah, we'll make sure our instructors take care of it. Can you rule out cases with that? Probably not, because we also see internationally that this is one of the major causes of death among military personnel. But we are also looking at the technical tools, also to make the instructors more able to implement this. Are we there? No. That is what I said in the letter. We now have a number of short-term steps to make the instructors aware. But more is needed in the defence sector, when it comes to policy, but above all when it comes to its implementation, as Mrs Diks pointed out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-30.u75	Thank you. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-30.u76	We shall vote on the motions on Tuesday. We thank the Minister for her presence. We also thank her for the word "pang, pang" situation, with which she immediately won the language prize for today.
