ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-eerstekamer-3.u1	The next item is the commemoration of Mrs Jaqueline de Savornin Lohman. I ask the Members to stand up. On 24 November, at the age of 85, Jacqueline de Savornin Lohman, former senator for D66, died. She was a member of the First Chamber from 11 June 1991 to 13 June 1995. Young lady Jacqueline de Savornin Lohman was born on 21 August 1933 in Buitenzorg, Netherlands-Indies. During the occupation she sat with her mother in a jappenkamp. Immediately after the liberation, the family returned to the Netherlands without a father, who had died in another camp in 1944. Jacqueline de Savornin Lohman was 12 years old at the time. Despite her war-broken primary education, she graduated from the Montessorilyceum Elswout in Overveen in 1952. Jacqueline de Savornin Lohman then studied Dutch law at the University of Leiden. As the first student in Leiden who wore pants, she showed her desire for change at a young age. After her candidate exam, she chose to study law in the United States for a year. In 1958 she graduated in Leiden and started as a trainee marketing and advertising at Unilever. At that time, however, the company did not know how to deal with female trainees. Jacqueline de Savornin Lohman therefore chose to work as a lawyer after two years. She said about that period at Unilever: "You can laugh at serious things in the lawyer's office, but Unilever's was the other way around. In my opinion insignificant details, such as the number of dots at the 'Blue Band mmm... tasty' ad, were recorded high." After twelve years as a lawyer, Jacqueline de Savornin Lohman became chief employee at the legal faculty of the University of Leiden. Jacqueline and I became colleagues in Leiden. In 1975 she obtained her PhD in law at the University of Amsterdam. When a professorship at the University of Twente failed, she decided to work at the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau. Professor Jacqueline de Savornin Lohman was awarded the chair and education at the University of Amsterdam in 1988. From 1992 to 1995 she was professor of pedagogic and educational sciences at the same university. After her retirement, she remained active as thesis counselor because, in her own words, "the students keep me completely informed." Involved in politics was Jacqueline Lohman, as she called herself briefly, since the 1960s. She was present at the founding meeting of D66 and in 1967 she was a candidate for the Lower House. About her membership of the party she said: "In D66 I recognize a lot of myself: generalistic, striving for sincerity, the realization that society is changing." Within the party she was active as a member of the support group Justice and Home Affairs of the Dutch Parliamentary Group, of the Board of the Stichting Scientific Bureau, of the editorial board of the party magazine Idee and as chairman of the Political Emancipation and Activation Centre. When Jacqueline Lohman became a member of the First Chamber in 1991, she became a spokesperson for the D66 group on education, public health and science policy. During her maiden speech, on 5 November 1991, when considering an amendment to the Study Financing Act, she said about her objections to the proposal: "Maybe you think, Mr. Minister, that it is the beginner's zeal that triggers criticism. That may be so, Mr President, but a fresh look can force the players of an opaque game to wonder again what they are doing." That fresh look didn't lose Mrs. Lohman. She was remarkably different and let the people around her always think. In those years, she'd find out that the Chamberwork wasn't her. She decided not to go for a second term. In addition to her political and social career, Jacqueline de Savornin Lohman was a member of the Committee on the Revision of the Decoration System, curator of the Institute of Social Studies, chairman of the Stimulation Group Emancipation Research and chairman of the National Support Structure for Women in Utrecht. In 1990, Jacqueline de Savornin Lohman was appointed officer of the Order of Orange-Nassau. At 70 she took a completely new direction: she became cabaretière, the oldest in the Netherlands. Until a few months before she died, she was still on stage. In one of her cabaret programs she looks back on her membership of the First Chamber: "Senator. Well, I thought that was a dangerous job. Every Tuesday there were a few dead men to remember. So I thought, "One term and then, get out of here." I survived." Jacqueline de Savornin Lohman summarized her life as follows: from girlpower I went to flowerpower and to old power. May our respect for her person and her merits for society and Dutch parliamentary democracy be to support her family and friends. I ask everyone to observe a moment's silence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-eerstekamer-3.u2	Thank you. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments.
