ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u1	The next item is the commemoration of Max van Weezel, journalist, columnist, political commentator and radio presenter. He died last Thursday at the age of 67. I welcome his family: his wife Anet Bleich, Natascha, his brother Ronald and his husband Lex Willemse. I would also like to welcome the Prime Minister in Box K. He's in trade-k on behalf of the cabinet, but he won't speak today. I would ask everyone in the Chamber to stand up, if possible. From 1976 the Binnenhof was Max van Weezel's second home. That was the year he started as an employee at Vrij Nederland. Later he became a presenter at Met het Oog op Morgen en Argos, and wrote a large number of books about the Binnenhof and politics. He was from the generation after Kees Bastianen van de Volkskrant, Frits van der Poel van Het Vrije Volk, Kees Lunshof van De Telegraaf, Willem Breedveld van Trouw and Max de Bok van De Gelderlander, but he belongs in this list. Max van Weezel was a master journalist and a striking personality. It's as brilliant as it is witty. As sharp as loved. A journalistic centipede, which controlled every genre to the finesses. From interviews to analyses, from columns to political commentary. An observer who looked with eagle eyes at the power to understand, fillet and interpret him. 24 hours a day, no less than seven days a week. For young journalists, but also for politicians and rulers who came to the Binnenhof for the first time in recent years, Max was a phenomenon. An apparition. Large briefcase bulging through piles of paper and cigars. Little man, big glasses, a bit of a spilly raincoat. Probably scattered, but appearances are deceiving. The raincoat belonged to Burberry. And besides all those articles on paper, he also read everything digitally on Blendle in the morning. Behind the façade of "I mess around" school a craftsman with a crystal clear look, a brilliant strategy and an unparalleled understanding of politics. In the beginning of his journalistic career at Vrij Nederland he became famous for the new way of journalism companies at the time. He used the method that would remain his trademark until the end. Dangerously villainous against power. Frighteningly well entered. As a result, you gain confidence, so that your interlocutors feel completely at ease and then, at unexpected moments, strike. And your sources not only base on what politicians say, but also look for the back of the news in places that are less obvious, for example for drivers, secretaries and chamber guards. Max van Weezel remained fascinated by politics. As a "political junkie," he loved the game as well as the marbles. He was not only critical of politics, but also of his colleagues. The murder of Pim Fortuyn had not only caused a landslide in politics, but also in journalism. The Hague reporters, as Max recently said in an interview, had lost contact with society. At first they did some bathing about reporters in the country, who stood with their feet in the clay, now they went into the country themselves, looking for the answer to the question why people had voted for Fortuyn. He himself did so in a lengthy interview series with Margalith Kleijwegt among residents of Almere-Zuid who lost faith in established politics. By reflecting on parliamentary reporting in such a way, he showed that he was able to transcend the delusion of the day, that he could see "long lines" in a world where it is often about quick quotes. It probably caused Max to last so long as a journalist at the Binnenhof. Never be satisfied, always want to set the bar higher, always be critical of yourself too, and your own merits with sense of humor relativizing. Max enjoyed politics and his major role in the political spectrum. From the debates and the drinks, the hard work and the prizes he deserved from it. But he always felt the ballast of his Jewish past. Under the influence of his daughter Natascha, who followed in his footsteps, he spoke about this openly at the end of his life. We are very grateful to Max van Weezel for everything he has meant for our Parliament. Journalists like him are indispensable in our parliamentary democracy. I wish dear Anet and Natascha much strength in processing this sad loss. I would ask you to observe a moment of silence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-2.u2	Thank you. I will suspend the sitting for a few moments, so that you can express your condolences to the Van Weezel family at the Members' Restaurant.
