ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u1	We are now going to debate the Commission's macro-efficiency opinion on creative training. I shall be the first to give the floor from the Chamber to Mr El Yassini of the VVD for his first term. Speaking time is four minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u2	Thank you, Mr President. On 16 April last year, the Commission published a report on the creative sector in the MBO. The Committee has concluded that four training courses in the creative sector really do not score enough in terms of job opportunities. By way of illustration, the MBO Artists programme has increased from 400 training places to 3.000 and the number of institutions offering these courses has gone from eight to twenty, while the labour market perspective in this sector has narrowed. The VVD aims to protect young people from a jobless future. This applies not only to young people in the creative sector, but also to young people in economic training. These training courses are at risk of becoming obsolete as a result of technological developments. We are getting signals from the field that this will at least threaten these training courses when it comes to the labour market perspective and job opportunities for the future. The question is therefore whether the Minister is examining the job opportunities of these training courses. The letter sent by the Minister last year showed that she wanted to take a good look at it. We've been a year and a lot has happened, but nothing's changed. Hence my question: what is the Minister doing to reduce the number of training places for MBO Artists and the influx of these students? It is our job to protect young people so that they can have a good chance on the labour market and thus build a career. We read that the Minister wants to leave this to the field now, but how does she really guarantee that steps will be taken by the field and that steps will actually be taken in the long term to limit it? We do not want students to study hard for years and then there will be no job waiting for them when they graduate. The VVD certainly does not want to delete all MBO Artists' programmes. There are really examples in which artists are delivered, who play the stars of the sky and sing in productions like Soldier of Orange and The Lion King. Think of the Frank Sanders Academy, for example. But then we have to train young people with the most potential and the most talent. We want them then to be trained by the best teachers at the best institutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u3	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Özdil for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u4	Ah, cozy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr El Yassini of the VVD just mentioned that, if I paraphrase him properly, the job opportunities in the creative sector for MBOs are falling, but I did not hear why they are falling. I have a question for Mr El Yassini of the VVD. Let me give you some context: we are talking, for example, about the Rutte I cabinet. That cabinet has saved EUR 200 million on culture, including EUR 180 million on performing arts. My question to Mr El Yassini of the VVD is: does he agree with GroenLinks that much of the lack of jobs in this sector is due to VVD policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u6	Then we must go back to the period of Rutte I and Rutte II, in particular, in which we were all working hard to bring the Netherlands out of the worst crisis since the Second World War. As a member of the State, I saw that not only the VVD took its responsibility, but also some of the directors of GroenLinks in particular. In the province of Utrecht, for example, the delegates also cut back on culture. These are difficult and firm measures, which we had to take to ensure that the Netherlands came out of the crisis. These kind of delegates then jump over their own shadow. I hope that Mr Özdil will do the same and not just focus on the past, but, together with the VVD, look at the future, at the labour market perspective of these young people. It's about protecting them so they get a start on the labour market.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u7	This was a very long answer. It may be me, but it's not an answer to my question. That's why I'm asking him again. In total, the Rutte I cabinet saved 200 million euros on culture, including 180 million euros on performing arts. Once again, does Mr El Yassini agree with us that Rutte I's policy is, in any case, largely responsible for the problems in the labour market he has just mentioned?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u8	Then I will try to explain it in such a way that Mr Özdil immediately understands me. No, I disagree. As I just said, not only has the VVD taken responsibility, but fortunately also a number of GroenLinks directors, including Mrs Pennarts, deputy of the province of Utrecht.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u9	200 million, yeah? 200 million?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u10	No, we're not gonna talk through each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. That's exactly what I want to report. I would like to congratulate Mr Özdil and Mr GroenLinks for taking their responsibility in times of crisis and taking difficult steps. Then I find it strange that Mr Özdil makes this comment. On the contrary, he should be proud of these GroenLinks leaders who dared to cut back on the cultural sector in order to really get the Netherlands out of the crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u12	A very brief final remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u13	This is a little lame. Mr El Yassini knows very well that it was not GroenLinks who cut the 200 million on that sector. So I'm gonna ask him for a third time, hoping he'll give me an honest one this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u14	But this is a short final remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u15	I'm asking the same question as before. Does Mr El Yassini agree with GroenLinks that the VVD policy, of Rutte I among others, will cut art and culture by EUR 200 million...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u16	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u17	... is part of the problem of the labour market that he was just talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u18	And the answer is the same, Madam President, namely 'no'.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u19	I think the argument of those difficult times we all had to go through is a bit sought. Mr. Zijlstra stood about everywhere shining about how good it was to finally get rid of that subsidy grape from that cultural elite. That was some sort of Mr. Bertema avant la lettre, so to speak. And now say it was all because we had to make a rough trip through the desert? That's a little too fast for me, Mr. El Yassini.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u20	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u21	Do you agree with me that Rutte I's cultural savings were carried out mainly because of an ideological belief, and not because of the austerity mission?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u22	Let it be no surprise and no secret that the VVD would like to see the arts and culture sector get to grips with entrepreneurship, for example. That's what we see in musicals. Musicals attracted 2.3 million visitors in 2017. They have done so for the most part without subsidies. Then you can see that this sector is thriving and doing very well. That's why we want to protect the sector. We'd like to see how we're going to reduce the MBO courses, delete the artists, but make sure they're left, so they're going to sing the stars of the sky as well. 'Cause there are some top-of-the-line deliveries. So Mr Kwint can say that it is far-fetched, but I think there has been some SP-driver who has simply taken his responsibility. And that's commendable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u23	If Mr El Yassini spends his time answering the question instead of listing places where a driver has been seated, I think we will get a lot further. Anyway, let me pick up the glove and indeed look to the future. There's gonna be more money for culture now. You can see that the labour market is attracting again. Does Mr El Yassini share the concern that, when we intervene too rigidly in the supply of training, we are constantly working on the battle of the past and that, if there is ever more employment in the cultural sector, we may have a problem in a few years' time? I recall, for example, child care, where a lot of people are needed now, when in recent years no one has opted for this training. Why?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u24	That is precisely why I am relying on an opinion from the Commission on macro-efficiency, and that I am not here by myself proclaiming what we should and should not do. That advice has been pretty clear. It has said: if you look at the labour market perspective, we have gone from 400 to 3,000 places. Then something really has to happen. Then I still want us to look at fewer students, but the students we have must be the top talents with the most potential trained by the best educational institutions. But then we have to be very honest and say: 3,000 there are really too many.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u25	I'm not going to talk about 200 million cuts in culture. I'm going to talk about the VVD as a liberal party. On the one hand, I heard well-known VVD sounds such as: we need to work towards more entrepreneurship in culture and in art. You can find anything about that, but that's an uncut VVD sound. But I also hear Mr El Yassini say: we must protect young people from their own choice. I don't understand. Last Friday I had a debate on LSVb with Mr Jan Anthonie Bruijn in the Upper House. There he was greatly pleading for selection at the gate. Now I hear a VVD calling...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u26	Could your question be a little shorter? Come on!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u27	Yes, excuse me... for young people to be protected from their free choice. How does that relate to the fact that Mr El Yassini is a liberal party?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u28	That I would have said that they should be protected against their own choice is not true, but they should be protected from training that is thrown up and which from marketing-pr say: how fantastic; you can come singing and dancing! Golden mountains are promised. Next, if they graduate three years later, there is no labour market perspective. Because there was no connection with the labour market.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... It's not about protecting young people from their own choice. I didn't say that. We need to protect young people from letting them get away with the number of training places so that we can make something sexy for young people so that they can come to specific schools. I'm against that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u29	This is a bit of a chicken egg discussion. Mr El Yassini now pretends that the number of places has grown in advance and that people have been looked for. It's the other way around, of course. There's just more interest. There's probably even more work. Shouldn't we set it up that we let young people follow their dreams, that we give them very good information about their labour market opportunities, but that ultimately it remains their choice to do so? Does Mr El Yassini agree with me or does he want to smother that dream in advance?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u30	Dreams are beautiful. Unfortunately, Mr Eppo Bruins of the Christian Union is not here today, because he has a very nice story. He signed up at the conservatory. They said to him: "Unfortunately, you are not going to make it. You will probably be a very good music teacher, but that's it." Then he went to work and studied physics.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u31	I don't know what's wrong with a very good music teacher.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u32	That was just a little ripple through the hall. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u33	But that wasn't his dream. You're talking about dreams, Mr. Van Meenen. That wasn't his dream. His dream was to be able to play for a big audience. He then studied physics. He has become a brilliant professor and an excellent Member of Parliament. That means that he then also fulfilled other dreams. What I want to say is: take D66 on the side of the student, where we make it clear that these are the training places where we train people, where we are sometimes tough. I will go into this later, because I also want MBO schools to have the opportunity to select in the creative industry...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u34	And I'd like you to make the questions and the answers a little shorter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u35	I'm gonna do my best. But does D66 take the side of the student, of the younger, by saying clearly: we want a good labour market perspective and therefore do not just offer training courses that actually train for a jobless future? Or does D66 say, no, we keep it the way it is and we'll see what happens?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u36	In the eyes of D66, there's just a little more than just a job in life. That's the dream; that's what you want with your life.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u37	Thank you. That is the short final comment in the third instance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u38	I will also emphasise this in my own term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u39	You will continue your speech, Mr. El Yassini.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u40	Yeah, we're moving on. Two more minutes; we're halfway there. So what we want is very simple. We want fewer students for those mbo artists. But the students we train are the students with the most potential and the greatest talent. They are trained at the best institutions. Does the Minister agree with me that training can now do no more than impose additional requirements, and that they cannot therefore select on the basis of potential and talent? With regard to the MBO desktop publisher, DTP, the educational field and the business community themselves admit that this training is outdated and should not have a place in the MBO. For us, it is truly incomprehensible that this training is still being given and that students can still register for it. Is it possible to stop the training immediately, especially with the idea that there is a new qualification dossier at the Minister's office, which has been submitted to improve the qualification dossier at all? Mr. Chairman. Finally, in the MBO Fashion/Size and Media Design programmes, we also see that more young people are being trained than there are jobs and job opportunities. At the end of last year, the schools that offer these courses had to answer to the Minister about this labour market perspective. But we now have no idea what the Minister has done with this responsibility, with the exception of giving it to the Commission's macro-efficiency. However, it has been found that the Minister wishes to leave this to the sector. On the contrary, the VVD would like the Commission to give macro-efficiency on account of the accountability of the schools an opinion on whether or not to intervene in one or more institutions for these specific training courses. The VVD then wants the Minister to take immediate action on the basis of these opinions and to intervene. So I am really looking forward to the Minister's response. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u41	In today's De Telegraaf, colleague El Yassini of the VVD felt called to dislike this minister with the following words, and I quote now: 'because she doesn't go through with cutting in the wild growth of fun studies for mbo'ers'. My question to my colleague El Yassini of the VVD is: can he give some thought to what he thinks are fun studies? Which studies are those, exactly?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u42	I think it is wise that I should go and get some glasses for Mr Özdil, because I am sure it does not. I read the article myself. I'm talking about my own words, and I know what I said. I haven't put the word "fun studies" in your mouth for a long time she'll live. I can tell you right away. We have said very clearly: it cannot be that as a student you study hard for three or four years with the hope to achieve your dream, and that that dream turns out to be a nightmare, because when you graduate you cannot find a job. It can't be. We ask the Minister to intervene. And when we talk about fun studies: I don't see mbo artists as fun studies, because, as I have already said, I am a big supporter of, for example, the Frank Sanders Academy, the way they train and the top talents they deliver to musicals like Soldier of Orange, Mamma Mia! And The Lion King. So I do not understand exactly where you are getting that from, but I want us to be very clear about the job opportunities and the number of training places in the Netherlands for mbo artist.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u43	I thank Mr El Yassini for his answers. I've literally printed this from De Telegraaf's website, so if my colleague El Yassini says he's been miscited, I'll take it from him. That means a correction on the part of De Telegraaf. That's what I'm embracing. I am glad that he has given this answer and that he has not mentioned fun studies, although he has been quoted in De Telegraaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u44	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u45	My question is again: can Mr El Yassini indicate to what extent the policy of the Rutte I cabinet in particular, as well as the Rutte II cabinet, has contributed to the lack of jobs in the sectors he spoke about?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u46	I think this is the same question as before, but I give the floor to Mr El Yassini.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u47	But I would also like to ask you to state this now in the article, because I think that is exactly what the PVV said about the training programmes. That's fine. That's good, too; it's great. But words are now being put in my mouth by Mr Özdil, whom I would have said or not. Again, I find that "fun studies" a little weird. I would also like to add that I have also spoken with musical producers, casting directors and actors, with people from the field, from the arts and culture sector. They say exactly the same thing to me: "Do us a favor and now scrape the mbo artist. Make sure you have good education, those young people who are talented and full of potential, well trained. Let it not be hobbyism."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u48	Here's what I'm gonna do. I'm suspending for a few moments to clear this up. I think that is important when someone is quoted and that may not be okay. So I'll suspend for a few moments and then you can get together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u49	Mr El Yassini has the need to clarify what the uncertainty has arisen. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u50	Mr President, I do not intend to point out, but I would like to address Mr Özdil to the fact that my quote in the article has nothing to do with fun studies. In the head it says: "because she doesn't go through with the pruning in the proliferation of fun studies." Perhaps that's an interpretation of the writer himself. My quote, which is also very simple, is: "They are students who study hard for four years and then there is no job waiting for them. The Minister really needs to get to work." Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u51	Okay. You wanted to clarify that as a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u52	So I want to make it clear that what Mr Özdil is saying is absolutely wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u53	Finally, Mr. Özdil.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u54	So I take it with all my heart, as I said earlier. So I'm very happy...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u55	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u56	...with the clarification of colleague El Yassini. I printed this from The Telegraaf website. So please correct De Telegraaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u57	It's not about a correction. It's a journalist's interpretation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u58	I think it's clear. You're done with your term? Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u59	Well, there's another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u60	Oh, you have another interruption from Mr. Kwint. Finally. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u61	I'm popular, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u62	Now I'm a little confused. That's not because of that article on The Telegraaf site, because the word "studies" is clearly not in quotes. It's not in your quote. But in 2016 it was your predecessor Duisenberg who turned out big in the newspaper with "gone with all the fun studies." What is the VVD's sudden objection to the term "fun study"?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u63	We're not talking about fun studies here. We're talking about defining mbo artist as fun study. I have made it very clear that I have a great deal of appreciation for MBO institutions that train in a good way. But I keep repeating: you can't go from 300 to 4,000 and then look at each other and say you don't have a problem. I would like to point that out. Well, that's a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u64	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u65	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u66	I give the floor to Mr Bertema of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u67	Thank you, Mr President. Since 2008, the MBO has been subject to statutory care obligations, I repeat: the statutory care obligation to offer only training courses that offer qualified school leavers a clear perspective on finding a job, and this within a reasonable time and at least at the level of the training already completed. Reading that, I immediately think of what I said in an AO in 2012 about two urban dance programmes in Rotterdam. Urban dance. Those are fun studies. I said about that then, and I quote: "What is the perspective of a real job with a degree in urban dance, the chance of a mortgage, a reasonably carefree family income? 'That's bourgeois', I hear all those hip dance teachers say, who, by the way, do have a mortgage on their own,' like Mr Van Meenen "it's about self-realization'. We have to cut these training courses, and that is not a measure inspired by rigid, one-dimensional (...) ideals." So far from the old box, Mr. Chairman. At that time we were not chasing dreams, it was about training professionals, who are able to climb to the middle class. And that often requires a mortgage, asset formation and so on. We consider this to be more important than vague concepts such as 'hunting a dream'. Mr. Chairman. This was seven years ago. And what did I see to my great fear and amazement? This kind of creative but above all non-opportunity training is simply offered at several MBO schools. That's probably because of the sucking effect of all kinds of television programs, such as So You Think You Can Dance. But what are these developments in relation to the legal duty of care that applies to the MBO? We do not believe that institutions that offer these courses also give these students the prospect of a real, serious job, a job that gives certainty with a clear spot on the horizon. It does, however, provide participants, many participants. But I cannot believe that such cynicism could play a role. I can't believe it. And yet since 2006, the number of students undergoing creative training has increased dramatically, by 65% to almost 60,000 students. That is a football stadium full of students who are about to face an uncertain future. In the meantime, industry is in the process of jumping over staff who have learned a profession, such as metal, installation technology, electrical engineering, motor vehicle technology and so on, so a real subject with perspective and not a hobby that is elevated to a serious subject. Schools should make it clear to these students what they are getting into, and that the chances of a job in this sector are limited to a few. That's the story these institutions have to tell these students. They must respect the legal obligation of care and also put it into practice. Mr. Chairman. We agree with the Commission's macro-efficiency MBO, with that terrible abbreviation CMMBO, which states that the provision of training by institutions should be based on sufficient labour demand and that learning routes should be designed in such a way that students' initial interest is linked to relevant training courses for a regional labour market. That's right. MBO institutions should once again have a look at the progress of their alumni on the labour market, which I think is a very good idea, and possibly in further education. We therefore wholeheartedly endorse the advice of the CMMBO to stop the qualification files desktop publishing and artists. The Committee recommends transferring relevant elements from those training courses, which really matter, to other qualification dossiers, as an option. I think that is wise; so no accumulated experience is lost. As far as we are concerned, it is time for the MBO to take its legal duty of care seriously. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u68	Thank you. Mr Van Meenen has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u69	Let me start by acknowledging that I have a mortgage. Mr Beertema has made a good assessment of this. I have, like him, become such a common civilian man whom Mr Beertema apparently wants us all to become in this country. 'Cause if you don't have a mortgage, you've obviously studied something wrong. That's my brief summary of what he's saying here. But there are also people in this country who choose to live a completely different life. For them, a mortgage is not the highest goal in life, nor is it for me, before there are any misunderstandings. Their highest goal is to pursue their talents. And what does Mr. Beertema say? He's from the Party for Freedom. I have just said it to Mr El Yassini: freedom also means that you can make your own choices in your life. Will Mr Beertema now prevent these students from making these kinds of choices in future, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u70	Yes or no? In Mr Van Meenen's introduction there are already two incredibly strange remarks, which I cannot make. He says, "You're a civilian like me." I'm very much fighting that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u71	Okay, I admit that Mr. Beertema is an even worse civilian man that I am.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u72	And second of all, I don't have a mortgage, so he's wrong on all sides. And that was just the introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u73	Okay, okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u74	Look, I have a little resistance to what is said especially on the left, at GroenLinks and D66, who always know how to find each other in this area, about talents. Of course, we need to develop talents. For every teacher, it's terrible to lose talent. But let's not go chasing that with those GroenLinks tales of your ideals and stuff. Come on, stay on the ground a little bit. Education has a very important task, an emancipatory task, especially when it comes to the MBO. That's where we're dealing with vmbos. We want to give these children, those young people, ample opportunity to flow through society. You may find it very old-fashioned or not of this time, but the middle class is very important to us. The middle class is the backbone of society. We like that all the talent that's in the class below gets the leanness to steam on to the middle class. Often this includes a mortgage and includes the formation of property and family formation. We think that's important. You may find it old-fashioned, but we're in front of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u75	Now, as usual, Mr Beertema makes a caricature of what I say. I also think, of course, that there should be this road, that people should choose it and that we should not become a country in which everyone is an artist. We are in complete agreement on that. But this is the fundamental point behind who that choice is. Is it up to us? Do we say in advance that we want the government in our country to prevent you from doing so, because we think that you should all contribute to this country in the same way and that you should live the same kind of life? Isn't it? That is the fundamental choice we stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u76	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u77	My question is the same as before, but I can't get an answer to that. Does Mr Beertema think that the government should decide whether or not young people should be able to choose that future?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u78	We need to keep two things apart. Take the example of our colleague Bruins. He wanted to go to the conservatory, but was advised by professionals to consider it again because, as his dream was, he would not be among the top. Mr. Bruins is not the most vulnerable personality in this country, I'd say. He's here for a reason. A lot of vmbos are. They are easily convinced by images, by frames about how romantic it is to work as a circus artist. That's what education was for. The students were pouring in. I think that's cynical. Those rocks can rewrite students. The students have a great time for three or four years and run a great internship, but what happens next? I think that's a shame. Those students too, Mr. Van Meenen, have only one chance at a good four-year MBO education. I don't mind sending in a little bit. By the way, the government doesn't send so hard. The market is steering. If someone doesn't notice, the government or a rock has a duty to say, "Oh, watch what you're doing; maybe you should do something else." I don't find anything wrong with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u79	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u80	Shouldn't the conclusion be that you shouldn't be giving good information? I fully agree with Mr Beertema on this. This is about sometimes vulnerable young people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u81	Thank you. Good information.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u82	They are entitled to good information, but not to a closed door.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u83	That's true. I've been around a lot of that kind of information. In my own classes, with level 4 secretaries, came a guidance officer from Hbo Inholland. He stood as a market merchant to attract students to his own education, something with media, marketing and event management. They all went! Three, four years later, in the meantime, I was already sitting here, and it was the generation of students who couldn't complete the study because we were suddenly making demands because of the diploma fraud. Then those students never got back to work. I think that's a hell of a scandal. I'm not awake at all, but it still bothers me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u84	To Mr Beertema and also to Mr Van Meenen the following. I think it's really weird. It's spoken as if there's some kind of ideal image and the government shouldn't be able to determine anything. In any case, I heard Mr Beertema talking about the labour market perspective. We have written it down in the coalition agreement with all of us. D66 signed it. We say: 'The MBO strengthens the requirements of the regional labour market perspective and takes into account whether training is sufficiently in line with the field of employment'. And that is precisely what I have a question for you, Mr President. After all, what does Mr Beertema think of what is happening in real situations in practice with young people undergoing mbo-artist training? I hear this from musical producers, but also from casting directors, who say: "Then they have done a three-year training, then they are ready and come to audition. They can't sing, they can't dance, they can't act." Then I'm really wondering what went wrong for the last three years. What does Mr Beertema think about this and should we not restrict the training of MBO artists?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u85	I think you wanted a little extra speaking time through a question to Mr Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u86	I would very much like to give that support to Mr El Yassini. It's a hell of a scandal. I only have one word for it. It's cynical that it happens this way, because it happens over the backs of these students. All students who only have one chance to go to school at that age for four years. That's for nothing, and that's embarrassing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u87	You've finished your speech? Fine, then I give the floor to Mr Ozdil van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u88	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Have you ever been to the caves of Lascaux in France? Yeah? Then you know exactly what I'm talking about. In the caves of Lascaux, our ancestors, people, drew beautiful paintings 20,000 years ago. Let me show you an example. I was able to visit them last year. Hollow dwellers in the Stone Age, who began to draw these kinds of things in their spare time: bulls, animals and that sort of thing. But what they did, for example, was this which I now show: draw their own handprints. I'm showing this because I think it shows something about human nature, and also, according to paleoanthropologists. From the present era of economics or neoliberianism, or whatever you want to call it, from the efficiency ideology this could not really be possible. Because those people in the Stone Age needed all their time to look for food. They lived in caves and had no refrigerators. This is not effective at all, so to speak, but they did. My point, in addition to all the scientists who say this, is a bit of a rhetorical question to the minister: does she agree with GroenLinks that expressing creativity, art and culture is in human nature and that it cannot be measured by some kind of profit-and-loss story?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u89	I love seeing that. I really like it. But I don't think those Neanderthals have been trained and haven't been funded by the government at all. So I'm gonna miss the connection. This has just happened from the expression of man. But we are talking here about macro-efficiency and the labour market perspective of young people, who make a choice at the age of 16 and who want to give a good start on job opportunities. How can you reconcile these two?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u90	They weren't Neanderthals, they were gay sapiens, people like Mr El Yassini and me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u91	Excuse me, I'll take that back. They were indeed homo sapiens, who still didn't receive Mbo-artist training.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u92	It may be me, but I don't get the point. My point was: is it in human nature that creativity, art and culture are in us and that we don't have to measure that against a profit-and-loss model? That was the point I wanted to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u93	The point I want to make is that you don't necessarily need a creative education to express yourself as a human being. Because that's what I'm doing. So once again, it is good that humanity manifests itself and that sometimes art and culture arise from it. Maybe one day, when I'm dead, a painting of mine will go over the counter for millions of euros. But you don't need training for that. So let's get back to the point. What does this have to do with the labour market perspective of these young people we want to protect?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u94	I am glad that Mr El Yassini of the VVD is honest here about the VVD. Again, we're talking about 20,000 years ago. About people living in caves. There was no social structure at all. There were no refrigerators and there was no government. My colleague El Yassini is right about that. There were no MBO schools. There were no schools at all. But at that time, as humans, we still behaved like humans. In human development I think it is true that we have organized our social organization to our human nature, until quite recently: until the VVD came into power. So in that sense, I welcome Mr El Yassini's honest interruption: if it does not have a market value, then... I can tell in his questions that he doesn't see any value in it if it doesn't have a market value.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u95	Before you continue your speech, a question from Mr Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u96	Well, Mr. Chairman, more of a comment. The PVV is a specialist in ruining parties and I want to do that now. You've been in a fake cave and probably the chairman, because it was closed years ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u97	No, they're closed; they are. I didn't want to intervene, but I've been in there as one of the last. After that, they weren't allowed to do it anymore, because they weren't allowed to exhale anymore. So where have you been, Mr. Özdil?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u98	My colleague from the PVV is absolutely right. That is the beauty of France: the government does support art, culture and heritage. They have said: those original caves are so valuable that we should not let them rot by oxygen and other substances. You know what we're gonna do? We're going to recreate those caves one-on-one, so that people can go there and those original caves are preserved. I can see from my colleague in the PVV's question that he is now advocating, as in France, more public money for the preservation of art and culture, and I welcome that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u99	Please continue. But this has been cleared up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u100	We have achieved a great deal tonight, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u101	We've already achieved a great deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u102	Mr. Chairman. This debate has been requested by the VVD. The VVD is concerned about the working perspective of these MBO students and those concerns also share GroenLinks. It has to be better; we agree on that. But the VVD has quite a bit of butter on its head as far as we are concerned. In fact, it seems that the VVD itself has driven many of these young people to the UWV window by cutting over EUR 200 million in the cultural sector in the previous Rutte Cabinets, particularly in Rutte I and II. I have a graph in front of me, and I'd like to ask the Registry to hand it out. The graph shows the labour volume of the total economy from 2010 to 2016 and the volume of jobs in the cultural sector. This graph shows that there is a sharp decline in the cultural sector from Rutte I. My request is to distribute that graph. My question to the Minister is therefore: can the Minister quantify how many mbo jobs have been lost in the creative sector since the Rutte I and II Cabinets? Mr. Chairman. Many graduates of these MBO courses have to compete on the labour market against graduates in higher education. We see that the art sector often opts for HBOs, while sent-off MBOs can bring a very interesting perspective. My question to the Minister is: what role does she have in improving the employment prospects of MBO graduates? Is the Minister prepared to discuss this problem with the arts and culture sector? Finally, Mr President. Of course, there is also a responsibility in the field itself. More and more MBO students choose a creative training programme in which the work perspective is poor. According to the CMMBO colleagues, they have also discussed it before. The training courses for artists, desktop publishers, dtp, specialist fashion/size technology and media design require specific attention. Education institutions, like industry, recognise that the qualification of training dtp is outdated. That is why they are developing a new qualification dossier. My final question to the Minister is: why is it only now being done to innovate and modernise this training? I actually had a lot more, but all right: I'm out of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u103	That's right. Then I give the floor to Mrs Kuik of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u104	"Don't cry for me Argentina." You can hear it in my singing: no musical star has been lost to me. And I'm also very happy to be able to watch real artists. But let's say you're 16 years old and you're facing an extremely important step in your life: opportunities in the labour market, good citizenship, follow-up education and your personal development. The choice of study! You can choose what makes you happy. Parents are often important confidants and advisors. However, this choice must be made on fair grounds, including a fair picture of where graduates end up in the labour market. Almost a year ago, the Commission produced a critical report on creative training. Creative training is popular. Since 2005, the number of students has grown by 65%. This growth has been caused by the fact that rocks have started to offer these training courses. On the other hand, the position of workers in the labour market is very vulnerable. They work as self-employed or in a flexible employment with a limited number of hours per week and relatively often under their own level. My question to the Minister is how this can be done, also in view of the obligation of care of institutions. The CDA does not consider it fair for students to train many more young people than there are employment places. Their long-term importance should be paramount. Does the Minister also consider that this substantial growth in training should at least be related to a future, whether or not growing demand on the labour market? The Minister indicated in April that the institutions should reverse or argue in substance the growth of creative training. I don't read back anything about this in this letter. Can the Minister comment on this? I would also like to know how the distinction between MBO schools becomes visible to the Chamber in the report. There were already courses with a numerus fixus. How is it prevented that all the institutions should be treated in the same way? How is the balance between national vocational schools and the regional labour markets of the rocks shown? Has the regional labour market been taken as a starting point? The CDA sees that education and business are now taking steps in this direction. It is a good thing that the Minister is hanging out with them. But as far as we're concerned, what's lying there is very thin. In the short term, the maximum number of students enrolled on 1 October 2017 will be assumed. That's 1% less than the current number. This is what's alienating the CDA. The Minister instructed the SBB to firmly underpin the labour market perspective or to significantly limit it. Can the Minister explain why this slim restriction is sufficient in the short term? How real is it that institutions themselves are going to abolish their training? With this rapidly changing labour market, it is important for the CDA to be clear how innovation in training takes place in order to clarify labour market relevance, so that graduates take a successful step towards employment. The SBB proposes increased efficiency in working methods. Does the Minister intend, in this context, to involve the committee's opinion and to amend the policy rule so that availability of placements can no longer be the only basis for the labour market perspective of training? Is the Minister also prepared to ask the Commission for macro-efficiency to respond to the SBB plan in May? Mr. Chairman. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u105	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Van Meenen of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u106	Mr. Chairman. I was able to spend a good part of my speaking time in the interruptions. As far as I am concerned, this has also hit the core of what is ultimately at stake here. We have young people, sometimes vulnerable, who face a fundamental choice in their lives. Mrs Kuik has just described that beautifully. People who face such a choice must have one thing in particular, and that is that they are extremely well informed about the consequences of their choice. And that is what this is about. But what some parties are trying to do here is that these people do not need that information at all, because we are going to stand in the way of their future in advance. That is the fundamental debate we are discussing tonight: who is going to do this? I saw that the Commission's report indicates that there must be very good information for these people, such as information on the labour market perspective, but also information on further training. Because MBO training is not only training for a place on the labour market, but also for further training. 40% of these students are going to continue their studies. So I also agree with the Minister's proposal to take this report seriously, but first of all I agree with those who are really concerned, namely the MBOs. They must now look at what they want to do, but at least I want us to have a society in which these kinds of choices must continue to be made.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u107	I am listening to Mr Van Meenen and I must say that I am a little confused. I hear the soft approach here. Highlights are really beautiful, but I may have the privilege and honour to join Mr Van Meenen's party, D66, in a coalition with the CDA and the Christian Union. We've all drawn up a coalition agreement and signed it underneath. What I hear doesn't rhyme with what we've all agreed to, and that's what's next. I quote page 12: "The MBO strengthens the requirements of the regional labour market perspective and takes into account whether training is sufficiently in line with the field of employment. (...) Tools will be put in place to intervene in training courses that do not adequately prepare students for the labour market." D66 has also signed for this, but now I hear a different tone with D66, a much softer tone: we have to tell these 16-year-olds, because they have to follow their dream, even if they are unemployed on the couch. Does Mr Van Meenen not agree with me that we are all working together to strengthen that labour market perspective and that D66 must also take responsibility for it, including what is in the coalition agreement? Does he not think that they should stand next to the student with us and ask the minister to remove them from these training places? We need to intervene now, not if it's too late.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u108	As with many rules in the coalition agreement, several interpretations are possible here. For example, if you want to improve the labour market perspective, you invest in culture, as the cabinet does. This also improves the labour market perspective. Another is that you give very good information if you want to improve the labour market perspective. If all this leads to nothing and if institutions do not do it right, then I can of course imagine that intervention will take place there, but I think that is too early now. This is the first moment since the government agreement we have discussed this and now we are beginning to cut back on training, if it is up to Mr El Yassini. Well, I'm far from ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u109	Too soon? I think that's really weird. Last year, on 17 April 2018, I requested this debate. One day before that came the advice, which is already a year old. The opinion that it contained was very firm and also said: tackling and intervening. Anyway, at least that's about the period. Speaking of interpretation, I still find it truly bizarre. We are in the process of protecting young people from governance who think: "Goh, how nice, let's offer a mbo-artist education. That's something, because that makes those young kids come our way." Then we find out that musical producers, casting directors and people in the cultural sector also say: they have graduated and can't do anything. And finally, and that is even more important: even if we put money into art and culture through the cabinet, even if we support the cabinet as a Lower House, it can never be seven and a half times bigger. But that's what happened: from 400 to 3,000 students.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u110	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u111	Do you agree with me that, no matter how much we invest from the cabinet, we can never increase the labour market perspective seven and a half times, as we did with the training places?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u112	In addition to MBO, I also do all the other sectors of education. Mr El Yassini might also know from the MBO that I am extremely critical, if necessary, of the functioning of the administration, everywhere. So I am not going to approve, for example, that there is not enough energy being put into real, honest and clear information. I think that might also be the reason for the growth. That's been described by several people here. Growth is, in fact, inappropriate, based on very attractive stories and a misconception of the labour market. If we do something about that, I also assume, like Mr El Yassini, that that number may be reduced. But the fundamental difference between him and me is that I say that choice is ultimately up to the student, not us. That is where we differ from each other. And that's why we're here, because we're different from each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u113	I am curious to see how Mr Van Meenen looks at the enormous growth of training in relation to the lagging labour market. That's where we care. The training courses have a duty of care. How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u114	Yeah, that's what I'm worried about, too. On the other hand, I guess I've said enough about dreams. But at the same time, that's what I'm worried about. I think it is a responsibility of the institutions and I do not want to remove them either. I don't want to say in advance: you know what, we're gonna take care of it here. We are going to say which courses should be closed, which students should be stopped and what should be done. I do not think it is the main role of the government. But I do share the concern. We need to appeal to the boards much more strongly. It's unacceptable to me that governing students lure in with beautiful, not right stories. That can't happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u115	Please continue your speech. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u116	Mr. Chairman. I was wondering how the MBO reacted to this opinion. Can the Minister say a little more about that? It's been a while. We have just found that this opinion has been delivered. What happened in the meantime? That's not quite clear to me yet. My question to the Minister is also where I am at the heart of the matter, because I agree with her approach on how she is going to monitor better information for students. I think there are all kinds of obligations for study leaflets and you name it all. Apparently they're not working enough yet. Mr. Chairman. I think I'll leave it at that, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u117	I don't mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u118	I'm gonna go check on my mortgage.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u119	You can do that. You can also keep listening to Mr. Kwint. I give him the floor on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u120	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and I won't be singing. I was at some of the creative programs we're talking about today in Den Bosch some time ago. I visited several small-scale courses there and the students were busy discovering the direction in which the creative sector they want to end up earning their living. As the Commission's study shows macro-efficiency, these students are certainly not the only ones. In recent years, places on these training courses have been destroyed, while the labour market in the cultural sector has been rather dramatic in recent years, thanks to several Cabinets-Rutte. I have a question about that right away. If I have read it correctly, the studies on which the Commission bases macro-efficiency are about graduates in 2015-2016. So these are people who started their training in 2011-2012. Meanwhile, it's 2019. MBO training must be prepared for the labour market. Sure. Always. "Work market perspective" is a rather changing concept. By interrupting, I have already referred to the childcare, care and education sectors, for which it has been said for some time that you are being trained for unemployment and in which we now, through public policy, have huge deficits. How does the Commission ultimately take these kinds of changes into account in its model? According to the Minister, is that going to be enough? Do we keep an eye on that kind of fluctuations well enough? However, even corrective for this kind of political fluctuations, one can say that growth has gone too fast in this corner and that for some people the job perspective is a lot less, with the exception of that one musical star of Mr El Yassini singing in Soldier van Oranje. If there's a job guarantee anywhere, it's with Soldier van Oranje. I really think that goes on until the end of time. In general, we understand the measures proposed here: keeping in touch with alumni and providing clarity about future prospects. That seems to us to be a very natural choice. And yes, as far as we are concerned, in extreme cases the disappearance of training places should certainly be one of the possibilities. I believe that we are very often right to praise the MBO here because of the good links with the field of work. How, then, is it possible for the Commission to observe macro-efficiency in these training courses precisely that these relations are a lot less? How is it that creative training doesn't score as well? At the Artist's programme that we were talking about earlier, you see something special. Almost half of the students who are going to do that training come from the HAVO. That's an unusually high percentage for the MBO. Probably they were initially rejected for the art academy and go through the MBO into the rematch. In addition, this programme offers vmbo's the opportunity to attend the art academy. Are those really big problems? Because a nice education is made accessible to vmbos who otherwise would never have this chance. Shouldn't an education also take into account the labour market perspective or the flow rather than a combination of the two? If an education facilitates flow and especially allows students to pass on to an HBO programme, I understand that, for example, you score less well on a labour market perspective while you may be doing a very good job. Then, of course, there is the need for you to have a decent job perspective in that further education, otherwise you will have the same problem a few years later. Does the Minister think that this is sufficiently guaranteed at the moment in the Commission's study of macro-efficiency? If I'm reading it right, they're just being paid for both of them, you both have to do good, and sometimes that can lead to weird situations. Finally. We are, of course, having this debate at an extremely strange time, because I believe that in a few weeks' time we will have a letter in which the Minister will give us new information on the state of play of these training courses. Can she, while we are standing here, light up a little bit of what she is going to send to the Chamber, I believe, on 1 April at the latest, on the state of play in the creative training in the MBO?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u121	Thank you. Mr El Yassini.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u122	Mr. Kwint did indeed make a valid point when it comes to the streamers, especially from the HBO. I am actually curious to see how he looks at this, because the Commission's opinion on macro-efficiency also states that according to the ESC and the Culture Council, the labour market situation in the cultural sector is really worrying, including for graduates of HBO art training. Isn't it important, then, that is perhaps also indirectly a question to the Minister, Mr Alumni, that the alumni policy is being used so firmly? What does the SP think of alumni policy and following students after graduating from MBO or flowing into HBO and then going back to work, so that we know about the creative sector where they end up?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u123	To be honest, I find it odd that it's not standard for an education that you follow your students anyway. I graduated philosopher. Yes, let's talk about job prospects; then you can really only go to the Lower House. I still get regular calls from my education for information afternoons and stuff, even before I went into the Chamber. So yes, I think alumni policy is a very logical part of your education.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u124	Finally, Mr El Yassini.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u125	Finally, a very brief question as a follow-up. I am glad that Mr Kwint does, because that is how the VVD is in it. But then we see that in the letter she sent last year about the alumni tool, the Minister says: before the summer I come together with Koolmees, Minister Koolmees, with more information. Last week's letter actually contains almost the same text. I'm looking for the difference, but I feel like we're not getting along with those alumni tools from the MBO Council yet. How does the SP look at that? Should we speed that up? What do you think is the best we should use now when it comes to the alumni tools?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u126	You're referring to the Minister of Social Affairs, I presume. Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u127	Yeah, what's best now? That these training courses are just going to work with alumni policy. I do not want to talk about the precise interpretation of a tool and how it will be designed. That is not where my expertise lies, and I do not think it is very politically important either. What is most important to me is that we do indeed ensure that we keep an eye on those students after they have completed their training, so that we can see where they end up. That can be done with speed as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u128	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'll give the minister until 9:25, because she'd like five minutes to prepare her first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u129	It is not appropriate, because not all Members are in, but I think the Minister can answer the Chamber. Ah, there comes everyone rushing. Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u130	Thank you, Mr President. I won't sing. Being an artist is a profession. It's a good thing there's training for that. Today we are talking about the labour market perspective of a number of creative training courses in the MBO. I like to put it in perspective for a while. There are 24 creative training courses. We'll talk about four of them tonight. The picture of the 60,000 Mr Beertema sketched is about all these 24 training courses. Then we also talk about tailors, photographers and light engineers. So it's much wider than that. So we have to look at things in perspective. The Commission's opinion on macro-efficiency MBO in April 2018 showed that the labour market perspective for some of those creative training courses is insufficient. I would like to say here that training for the labour market is one of the three pillars of the MBO, as well as training for further education, as Mr Kwint rightly pointed out, and training for good citizens. The labour market perspective must, of course, be in order, but it is not the only issue in the MBO. The MBO is training for more than just the labour market. Let's not lose sight of that. Mr El Yassini spoke in an interrupting debate on the tightening up of the labour market perspective that was indeed agreed in the coalition agreement. I would like to point out that we have made very clear agreements on this in the quality agreements and in the administrative agreement with the MBO. It is one of the three national priorities in these quality agreements: preparing for the labour market of the future. MBO schools should include in their quality agendas how they see, implement and improve the connection to the regional labour market. You also know that it is being reviewed by the Scheffer Committee. I'll let you know how that key goes down later. So that tightening is definitely happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u131	That's in general. We have specifically asked for economic, financial and administrative training. I asked for this at the beginning, because we are getting signals that the labour market perspective is at stake in this respect. Is the Minister now saying that she answered my question about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u132	No, I'm not saying that. I can give Mr El Yassini an immediate answer to his question. In the meantime, we have commissioned the Commission's macro-efficiency MBO to carry out a thematic study on the profile of students in these administrative programmes. That assignment's already under way. You will be served at your beck and call: before you have been able to ask the question, we have already decommissioned the assignment. It looks at what kind of students take up this programme and, for example, at the flow to HBO, but also at the labour market perspective. I also asked the committee to look at the role of training in promoting equality of opportunity. This also plays a role. The MBO is an incredibly important factor in providing young people with equal opportunities in this country. This applies to administrative training, but also to creative training. They sometimes serve as a springboard to move on in education. We must also take this position into account. There are many young people who do not know very well what they want to study, despite all the information and guidance, or who first need a positive learning experience. Let's not flatten that out either. Therefore, I think that the MBO certainly has a very important role to play in the labour market, but we should not forget that this is not the only thing. Let's always keep looking at that broad assignment the MBO has. We're looking at administrative training. That theme research will be completed after the summer, and I will report back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u133	Let me really start with compliments, because we had prepared a motion on this because we were really worried about that. But the Minister is right: we are served at our beck and call. I'm very happy about that. Then there's the equality of opportunity. I think we are about to have a debate on equality of opportunity, including in the MBO. Let's go into it a little more deeply. I can tell by my own students. Every Friday morning I give citizenship at ROC Central Netherlands in the Marco Pololaan to level 2 students who do the training service employee. I notice that these young people, including those in VMBO, miss the help they need to think about what they want to be. So I've already seen someone who can be a fantastic paramedic and someone who's a future military officer, and they're all doing service now. It is good that that first step can be taken, but then we must continue. We can discuss this further in the debate on equality of opportunity, but I wanted to make this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u134	It's interesting, but it's going to be very late if we all give our coloring on all other themes as well. I would actually like to suggest that we try to stick to three interruptions. If that's about right, I'm asking the Minister to prosecute her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u135	Mr. Chairman. Despite my speech on the broad role of the MBO, I also stress in this debate that the labour market perspective is of great importance. We are also talking today about macro-efficiency policy. I would also like to stress here that this is basically self-regulation. In the WEB, which you have established here as legislators, you have also laid down this principle. Macro-efficiency takes shape through self-regulation by the sector. The Minister can intervene, but is always the very last resort. That is why I think it is so important that this is also clearly stated in my letter to give education and business the opportunity to solve the problems surrounding that labour market perspective. The first steps have been taken and, as I say to Mr Van Meenen, in very good consultation and coordination with the MBO. The first step that has been taken is that, pending the final opinion on the desirable student numbers, the number of students in these four creative programmes will not increase during the coming academic year. So the first step we've taken is freezing. For media design and fashion/size clothing there is even a slight decrease. Meanwhile, the SBB has advised to terminate the qualification file dtp and replace it with a new qualification file media making. That advice, that new qualification file, is on my desk right now. We are going to see whether this meets the previous objections to the old dossier. Mr El Yassini asked whether it would be possible for new students to attend the DTP programme. Yeah, you can. Because students have already registered for this and they simply have a right to admission. That can't be reversed. So any measures will apply from the academic year 2020/2021. So the first step is freezing. When it comes to dtp there will be a new qualification file. These first steps also give me confidence that the sector will also take the next steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u136	But there is a question for you on the previous subject, by Mrs Kuik of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u137	Mr President, thank you. In the first letter from the Minister in April she was quite strict. By the end of 2018, the SBB had to come up with a good underpinning of the labour market perspective, or significantly limit it. The steps that are now being taken are actually a bit more cautious. Can the Minister reflect on that? I do not see the firm tone in the April letter in the present letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u138	Maybe you want me to finish my story, because then I will come back to exactly the same point, where I think I am very consistent with what I said last year. I therefore expect the sector to be able to deliver an opinion before the end of May on how to reduce and adapt the student numbers of creative training so as to improve the labour market perspective. Where necessary, if that is not enough, I can still intervene. The law is therefore based on self-regulation. Mrs Kuik asked if I would be prepared to have the Commission look again at the opinion of the SBB. I'm quite willing to do that. That might help me to give a more informed opinion on that. If we really do not think it is enough, the ultimate consequence is that the Minister can intervene. That always goes in a kind of structure: then there comes a warning first. I can change that warning with conditions, for example the condition that there will be a numerus fixus. In the end, of course, sanctions are also possible through funding or even the cessation of training. Mr El Yassini asked me if I would also give him some boxes, or if I would just wait and see. The SBB is going to let me know at the end of May, and of course we are going to look critically at that. Of course, the Commission has said macro-efficiency for a reason: take those 2008 figures as a kind of benchmark, and see why there has been such an increase since then. In fact, the labour market did not give rise to this huge increase. So that's pretty much what you're gonna have to assume. So we are looking at 2008 and there is no real reason to increase it, unless the sector comes to me with very good arguments. So: yes, I'm looking at how the CMMBO flew it. And the sector really needs to come up with good arguments to justify why they see room for much more. But in this debate also stress that I think it is an extremely courageous step by the sector that they are going to try to get along. I don't think that's gonna go through the cheese-shave route, Mr. El Yassini had a question about that. No, they're really gonna look at quality, regional distribution, accessibility. This also means that you have to sit down with a number of institutions and say to each other: you can keep your education, and that one has to close. That's how you imagine it. That is an incredibly brave step, and that is actually the first time we have discussed the WEB in this respect. I think it is very nice that the SBB and the MBO sector have said together that they are involved in this, and that they say: we are going to show the Minister and society that we can do this in a good way. I think that needs to be appreciated. It is true that I am saying this to Mrs Kuik, perhaps a little less quickly than we all thought, but this is a very nice exercise in macro-efficiency and the way in which a sector, as we would like to see it, deals with its task.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u139	Mr. El Yassini, you have three interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u140	That is right, and I am also listening to what you have said, that we want to be brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u141	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u142	I'm definitely gonna try that. I am going to put three questions in one, and I am actually expecting a brief answer from the Minister, because those questions should easily be answered yes or no. The Minister just indicated that he was quite prepared to have the accountability given to the schools in relation to the MBO programmes and media design and fashion/size technology checked by the Commission on macro-efficiency, as we read in the letter of 30 April 2018. Is that right? Is that the commitment I'm hearing now? Because that was one of the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u143	Mrs Kuik asked me if I would be prepared to have the committee look at that opinion again if there is, so that I can also base my judgement on this. Am I willing to have a few more eyes with me? Yes, I have that willingness.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u144	Okay, so that doesn't mean yes. No, okay. I just wanted to check it out just to make sure. So that's just gonna be afterwards. Then my next question. The reason why we have just said 'action now' is the following. The Minister's letter says: "The SBB will let me know by the end of May 2019 whether" "the important word is "and if so how many students will have to return the influx of MBO students for training artists." Do I understand correctly from the Minister that it is different from what she says in the letter and that she says: no, there really needs to be contained and hard, and I want to do so together with the sector?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u145	Let's be careful. That letter says the SBB will let me know "or if so." Because the SBB is still about its own advice. I have just made it quite clear that I am assuming that this is a reduction. I have every confidence in that. Otherwise, in the MBO sector, they would not have had a strong conversation with each other in the sense of: friends, can we deal with each other not only to freeze things but also to agree with each other who really needs to reduce and perhaps close them? Yeah, you're gonna assume a reduction, but I'm not gonna fill in any advice in my letter that I'm still gonna get from the SBB. That would be wrong, because then I'm going to speak for someone else. I'm not used to that. I think that is an answer to your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u146	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u147	Mr El Yassini also asked whether talent and potential should no longer be selected. For training with a low labour market perspective, we already know the tool of the numerus fixus. The same applies to all creative training courses. In addition, they can also introduce additional admission requirements, such as for all of the subjects artist and media designer. Dancers also really check whether they are physically suitable for it. At the moment, I do not intend to extend those additional admission requirements, but I do intend to include this in the evaluation of the right of admission law, which includes the additional requirements. That evaluation's already under way. Mr El Yassini made, perhaps on his side, the remark that the Frank Sanders Academy is a good example. Here's what I'm gonna do. At the moment, I have no objective criteria to say: one education is better than the other. I can see which education scores best when it comes to the percentage of graduates with a job. Then we see a very diverse picture. So we really need to talk to each other about what we think is quality. Of course, regional distribution and accessibility also play a role in the question of where you are going to achieve that reduction. Mr Beertema made another comment about urban dance training as an example in terms of: does all this have sufficient labour market prospects? Mr Kwint will agree with me, because we have enjoyed this together: urban dance and hip-hop are on the rise. I think that's where the job opportunities are growing. I would also like to point out to him that we should not say too quickly: should we all? I also see, for example, a number of training courses which are part of this and whose job opportunities are extremely good, and we are looking at the percentage of graduates with a job after one year of.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... So you shouldn't say so much about all these training courses: we shouldn't do that. A lot of young people find a very nice job in that. Let's cherish that. I told you about the 60,000.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u148	Mr. Beertema has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u149	Well, one question... I've got to get something straight. It involved two urban dance courses in one city, both at the Zadkine and at the Albeda. I thought that was a bit much. If that was indeed the case, it seems to me that competition considerations have played a part in this. I called that cynical. That's what I think it was.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u150	I am not in favour of institutions offering training places for competition purposes alone. Mr Beertema knows the same thing about me. I think that's pretty much what lives in this room. I say again to Mr Beertema that I take the Commission's opinion on macro-efficiency very seriously, because that was also his question. I really want to see a reduction that improves the labour market perspective. Mr Özdil asked me if I would also like to talk to the cultural sector about a better labour market perspective for MBOs. Then it helps that I am also Minister of Culture. As you know, I have a strong dialogue with the cultural sector on this labour market agenda. This also concerns the quality of the jobs offered there. We shall return to this in the context of the development of cultural policy. Mr Özdil also asked why the qualification dossier dtp is only now being adapted. I would like to say to him that the schools have only been working with the revised qualification structure since 2016. Actually, that's just it. This dossier has now been examined in the light of the Commission's opinion on macro-efficiency, which is also following these developments. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Kuik had another question about the number of courses with a numerus fixus. She asked: are there already courses with a numerus fixus? When it comes to these four creative courses, all the institutions have indicated that they are not going to grow the number of places compared to 2017. They're freezing that number. That means de facto a numerus fixus. So he'll be here for the next year of study.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u151	Perhaps for the sake of clarification, the question was, in particular, how to prevent all the institutions from being treated in the same way. Some institutions already had a numerus fixus. Is that considered in the opinion of the SBB?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u152	The institutions have agreed with each other: we are now all freezing at the level we have, and then we are going to see which of us are going to offer which numbers of training places. That is what we must decide among ourselves. How they are going to do that, I get advice on that. Then we're gonna decide if we think that's a good way to do it. Whether it takes into account that some training courses had a numerus fixus before, I really leave that to the sector. This is self-regulation, according to the provision in the law, so I really think that we should let the sector do that first. It might also be better for them to judge it than for us to do so from some distance. Mrs Kuik also had a question about the internship indication. I want to include this internship indication in the ongoing evaluation of the macro-efficiency policy rule and see if we need to change the law or the policy rule in that regard. But this is a valid point and a good question. I had already answered your question as to whether I would like the Commission to look at the opinion in terms of macro-efficiency. Then there is Mrs Kuik's question as to whether the Commission's work still needs to be done in terms of macro-efficiency if it is to be left to the sector. Yes, I welcome the fact that we have a few third eyes that are really critical of the sector's macro-efficiency, just as I attach to keeping a stick behind the self-regulation itself. That's how we keep each other sharp. In that triangle, I think we can do exactly what is needed to ensure that the labour market perspective is healthy. Mr Kwint asked me about the letter that would come before 1 April. I think you already have that letter. Last week I sent a letter to the Chamber explaining exactly the steps we are going to take. The SBB's proposals are now waiting for 1 May. Mr Kwint was right to ask for the flow perspective as well. The Commission's macro-efficiency is more than just the labour market perspective; indeed, it is also a question of the chance of flowing through. With you, I think that is a very important perspective. Mr Kwint also raised the question of how the Commission is monitoring the development of the labour market. How do we get a good look at that? I agree with you that it is always very complicated. There is almost nothing more complicated than predicting the labour market for the future. The Commission now has a system of macro-efficiency: it uses multi-annual averages and uses as a limit "75% of people work at about the level of graduation within 12 months of graduation." In addition to that percentage of workers, she looks at even more indicators. I recently had a meeting with the industry and employers at the ESC. We all see that the labour market of the future requires some flexibility. In fact, we had the question on the table: do the current qualifications dossiers offer sufficient opportunities to move flexibly with the labour market? That is the crucial question that is always on the table. I found the answer surprising that night. And I was very pleased with what was established. Of course, you can look at those files from the perspective: it's a straitjacket. But that evening we established that you can also see them as the trampoline with which you can face the future, with enough space to move with. That also gives me hope that the sector is constantly moving into the labour market. In the quality agreements, we also commissioned the sector to make real arrangements in the region to meet and move with the regional labour market.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u153	I have one more question about the relationship between the labour market perspective and the flow of labour. It's a good thing the Minister says they're both important. But I wonder whether training in these sectors, i.e. training which provides an extremely high rate of flow, does not run the extra risk of a negative assessment, precisely because training is expected to do both. If you redirect 60% to 70% of your students to HBO, then the number of people you will have at work a year after completing the MBO programme is by definition very much lower than if 90% of students see it as final education. Is that a problem in practice? I honestly don't know that. Is that something that training runs into? Or does the Minister think that it has now been properly secured in the assessment system of, among other things, the Commission's macro... efficiency?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u154	Yeah, it's a mouthful every time, the name of that committee. But precisely for this reason, in the task of reviewing the entire sector of administrative training, I asked for this to be explicitly included. It is more than just the labour market; it is also a springboard for the future. And as far as I'm concerned, it might even be a little wider. You can say it's a preparation for further education, but it might even be a springboard to a good place in the MBO. Let's not forget that, too. We can see this in the broad programmes and sometimes in the creative training programmes. For some young people, it is really a huge opportunity to gain, perhaps for the first time in their lives, a very positive learning experience and to discover their talents. And then maybe they won't be the top dancer, but then they'll feel like learning. I also think that this is a valuable function, which I would not want to throw overboard. Mr President, I would like to close by asking Mr Kwint why the link with the sector and the business sector is actually less important in terms of creative training. We must note that the creative sector is certainly not a very well-organised sector. So it's kind of complicated to get that connection right there. We see that all the time. If the level of organisation in a sector is lower, it will also be more difficult for training to coordinate properly. You can also see this in sectors where, for example, a lot ofzzp'ers are working. Mr President, I have one more question from Mr Van Meenen on good information. That is, of course, extremely important; we have always discussed it. Yes, it is important that the MBO should also give good information about the labour market perspective and about training. This must of course also be done in secondary education, and there is a lot going on in this area, but there is still room for improvement. It is also very important, for example, that parents remain involved, because for a lot of young people, I understand, their mothers play a crucial role in choosing their studies. Finally, Mr President. It may not be entirely part of this debate and I do not go into drawings in caves, but Mr Özdil had the question as to whether it is important for people to be able to express themselves culturally. Well, he asks the Minister of Culture: yes, that is essential for the development of every human being. But that is a bit off the table in this debate, I would add. And I can't quantify how many jobs have been lost in the cuts in previous years right now. That's the answer I still owe the Chamber. Mr President, I think I have now dealt with the questions, perhaps a little clustered and perhaps a little broad.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u155	Fine. I do not see any Members saying that a question has not been answered. Then we'll go to the second term on the side of the Chamber. There is a two-minute speaking time. First of all, I give the floor to Mr El Yassini, but I think he has a point of order first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u156	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Is it possible to suspend for two minutes?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u157	Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, Then we'll do seven minutes, until 10:05. Is that okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u158	Even better. Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u159	We're suspending until 10:05.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u160	The next item is the second term of office, which will also allow us to table motions for resolutions. Members have two minutes to do so. I shall be the first to give the floor from the Chamber to Mr El Yassini of the VVD. He's probably gonna talk real fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u161	Thank you, Mr President. I'm gonna talk real quick. I've got three motions. I would have liked to take a little more time to get on with the discussion and debate, but because of time constraints we are doing it this way. I'd like to file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the number of training places for creative training has increased by 65% in 10 years and that the number of institutions offering creative training has in many cases doubled;]] [[Considering that the labour market position of graduates of creative MBO training is generally vulnerable and that the influx of students needs to be substantially reduced in order to protect students from a jobless future;]] [[believes that students taking creative training should be the ones with the greatest talents and the most potential;]] [[Whereas a possibility of selecting creative courses with a low labour market perspective will help to select the most talented and promising students for a promising future in the creative industry;]] [[calls on the Government to make it possible for creative training courses with a low labour market perspective to be able to select students on top of the additional requirements for talent and potential,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member El Yassini. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31524-398]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u162	Then I have a minute to make two motions, so I need to be like a spear...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u163	But you can still breathe, because we're going to see Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u164	Thank you, Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u165	Never too bad to help. Didn't the Minister say that additional demands could be made? What additional demands does Mr El Yassini have in mind, which he does not think are possible at the moment, but if his motion is adopted later?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u166	Mr Kwint is a blessing at the moment, because I would have liked to explain it and I can explain it now. I'm very happy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u167	But short.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u168	Additional requirements are already possible at the moment. This means that the bar is set slightly higher for students to apply for training, including in the creative sector. But if you can cross that bar, it's first come, first serve. Up there, it doesn't matter how good you are. If a Glennis Gracetype signs up in May or June, someone who can sing but is not the same type and is slightly lower...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u169	Like Anne Kuik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u170	... priority over training if it has applied before. That's why we say, put them in a barrel and select them; look who can sing, dance and act best, and take on those, instead of first come, first serve.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u171	First come, first serve is not a question of the additional requirements that can already be imposed. But shouldn't you be able to offer some space to, for example, students who can still develop? If one is incredibly complicated to estimate, then it is potential, especially before someone starts doing an education which is intended to teach the profession there. Isn't Mr. El Yassini afraid that this way you're gonna shut it down really bad?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u172	No, I don't think so. I also speak with professionals from the arts and culture sector, from the theatre world and the musical world. They really indicate that potential and talent are visible, although of course there are people who still have to develop themselves. But you can see what's in it and what else you can get out of it. That is why we say, as the schools also ask: give schools the opportunity to select. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that since 2008 the number of students of MBO training artists has risen from almost 400 to 3,000 and the number of institutions from eight to twenty;]] [[noting that in recent years the influx of craft education to HBO has been deliberately limited from the point of view of the labour market;]] [[Considering that the Commission's macro-efficiency MBO after examination concludes that the position of MBO-qualified artists on the labour market is very vulnerable;]] [[Whereas there is evidence that the labour market position of graduates varies from one MBO institution to another;]] [[Whereas since the 2008/09 school year the labour market perspective for care has been incorporated into the law and institutions should therefore be actively aware of this;]] [[calls on the government to engage with the institutions to reduce the influx of MBO training artists from school year 2020/2021 as close as possible to 400 training places nationwide and not to use cheese-shaving methods when removing training places but to look critically at the quality and connection to the labour market provided by the institutions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member El Yassini. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31524-399]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u173	Thirteen seconds, indeed. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the educational field and business itself admit that MBO training is desktop publisher (DTP) outdated and should not have a place in the MBO;]] [[noting that the field of education and industry has in the meantime developed a new qualification dossier through the SBB and have offered it to the Minister for Education and Science;]] [[considers that, in the meantime, young people who are considering MBO training DTP should be sufficiently aware of the labour market perspective of training;]] [[Calls on the Government to reduce the inflow for MBO training desktop publisher by school year 2020/2021 to zero and then to abolish DTP training;]] [[invites the Government, in consultation with the MBO Council, to ensure that students who wish to enrol or have already registered for the 2019/2020 academic year are explicitly informed about the labour market perspective of this training during the intake interviews and, if they wish to refrain from the training, are actively supported in finding another more appropriate training with a better labour market perspective,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member El Yassini. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31524-400]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u174	And I would like to thank you for that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u175	I don't think it's very appropriate what you're doing. I give the floor to Mr Bertema of the PVV... but he will refrain from doing so. I call Mr Ozdil van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u176	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank all my colleagues for the valuable debate today. I also thank the Minister and you. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, it is essential that we always ensure in politics that we do not think, say and arrange that MBO students cannot pursue their inherent human interests into creativity. That's what my input was about today. I hope that all colleagues, from whatever political party they are, will agree with me on this. At least the Minister, but that's what I'm assuming. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that only 20% of online vacancies within the cultural sector require a graduate MBO;]] [[Whereas graduate MBOs have little chance in the sector, while they are of added value and can offer a new perspective;]] [[calls on the government to agree with the cultural sector to improve the career prospects of graduates in the sector,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ozdil and Mr Ellemeet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31524-401]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u177	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have 49 seconds left, but I'm not gonna finish it. All I want to say is that I recommend everyone to go to the caves of Lascaux, which, thanks to the French government, are subsidised and copied for all tourists, to look at human nature there. Art and culture and creativity cannot be measured by economics.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u178	Thank you. Mrs Kuik also wants to make use of her speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u179	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I'm filing one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the time of choice of study is an extremely important step in young people's lives, in terms of their opportunities in the labour market, further education, good citizenship and personalisation;]] [[Whereas parents are often the most important confidant and advisor in young people's career choices;]] [[noting that the LOB expertise is already engaged in many activities related to parental involvement and career development and guidance;]] [[noting that it is important that the choice of study is made partly on the basis of a fair picture of the labour market perspective of the relevant training, supported by figures and representative selection of alumni stories;]] [[calls on the government to examine, together with the LOB expertise point, the extent to which the labour market perspective is taken into account in informing prospective students and their parents and where this can be further strengthened if necessary,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuik, Mr Rog, Mr Van Meenen, Mr Özdil and Mr Beertema.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31524-402]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u180	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u181	I see that Mr Kwint also renounces his second term. Then I shall suspend a single moment to give the Minister the opportunity to gather the motions and provide an opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u182	After the Minister has had some reading time for these epistles, I am happy to give her the floor to give her an appreciation of these motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u183	Thank you, Mr President. Five motions. The motion in part No. 398 by Mr El Yassini: we have just changed that. I have indicated to you why I do not want to impose additional admission requirements at the moment. I told you that we are in the process of evaluating the law on the right of admission. That law contains those admission requirements. For me, the evaluation should first establish whether this is necessary and desirable at all. So I advise against this motion. Then the motion to part No. 399. I'm having trouble with that. I said, in my view, that was the essence of my speech, that we agreed in the law that we are primarily talking about self-regulation and that it is now up to the sector to see what is necessary and sensible. I simply do not think that it is wise to say in a motion now what number it should be. If we have just agreed on a very clear, clear and sound process, for which the sector is really sticking its neck out, we should not say from the Chamber: this is the number we want. This opens a door to sending from the Chamber to the number of training places we want by sector. I'm not in favour of that. Let's go through that process properly first. I know what you want, but you're way too far ahead here. I really want to do this process nicely. In the debate, I have already promised that the sector also believes that it should not be a cheese-shaving method, so that point in the motion is superfluous. Furthermore, the motion refers to 'critical consideration of quality and integration into the labour market'. I have already said that it is also about regional distribution and accessibility, so it must also be a little wider than that. I therefore have a number of reasons why I should abstain from this motion. Mr. Chairman. Then...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u184	One second. I have, with your permission, modified your motion by putting your name on it, Mr. El Yassini. I thought that would be useful. So here's to it. Now you can ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u185	I would have prepared her with my name underneath. But it suddenly fell away. Okay, okay, okay. The Minister says the Chamber is going to send figures. Let me be clear: the Minister takes the Commission's macro-efficiency seriously, I know that. It is, of course, the Commission's macro-efficiency which has said in its opinion that 'delete altogether'. So I'm even going to go one step further by saying: no, but let's at least get as close as possible to the original number. Again, if they can explain that they have over 400, that's fine with me. But I do not want to end up in a situation where there are substantial deletions, but that there are only 300 places out of 3,000, where we are at 2,700 places, where we say, "Yes, we have all done this well," while we still have 2,700. These aren't our numbers. These are not the figures of the House of Representatives. These are the Commission's figures for macro-efficiency, which correctly indicates that action is now being taken. Let's at least start by getting as close as possible to the 400 places we originally had. I wonder what the Minister thinks about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u186	I think I was very clear about that in my first term. Yeah, I take that advice seriously. Yes, I think they have some explaining to do and that it should be more than that. So I see no need to put a number of them in the Chamber now. I really think that's the opposite route. That's not how we set up the trial. To be honest, I think it's a bit of a slippery route too, because we're going to get here from the Chamber about all kinds of training 'well, we thought it should be this number'. I just don't think that's wise. If the opinion of the SBB is there and with my opinion lies in the Chamber, and you say that you do not find sufficiently substantiated why it should be a certain number, or that you still think it is too much, then we can have a debate on it. But let's not just stick a few on it right now. You do not yet have an idea of the basis on which the institutions will come up with. You do not yet have an idea of the factors that are going to play a role there. This is really a bit too fast and too short through the bend. For that reason, I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u187	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u188	What I hear the Minister say now is that the Commission's opinion is too weak in its macro-efficiency. Because he said that this training should go to 0 places, while we still say that it should go to 400. If 400 is short-lived, what is the Commission's opinion on macro-efficiency? That is therefore too short a turn. I would like a response from the Minister. I think this is too easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u189	The Commission's opinion is macro-efficiency. The law says that the basic self-regulation is by the sector. The sector is extremely motivated to do this well with each other. As I indicated in the first term, I take that advice seriously. I also feel that this is what the sector is doing. Yeah, they've made their point, so we have a lot of explaining to do if we think we need to come out somewhere else, but should we wait until we get that explanation before we have a judgment? I do like to give self-regulation a chance, even if we think it should be a certain number, if that is the starting point. Self-regulation in which we say what the outcome should be is not self-regulation. Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 400 on influx into desktop publishing training, dtp. It invites the government to bring the inflow back to zero by 2021. That will happen automatically, because then the qualification file will no longer exist. I just told you there's a review of the qualification file on my desk. I'm going to judge it now. If it's okay, you can't flow in there anymore. But I think you want to make the point, above all, that the labour market perspective needs to be well informed about the intake. I'd say that's what it's always been. What I find an interesting point of the motion is the point of the people who are now hearing the discussion on this qualification dossier and who would like to be properly accompanied by it to any other choice. I think that's a real point, so I'm giving this motion the judgment Chamber. Mr. Chairman. The motion by Mr Özdil and Mrs Ellemeet is to be discouraged because we have a very comprehensive labour market agenda for the cultural sector. Mrs Ellemeet knows that better than anyone. We are working on many fronts to improve the labour market position and career prospects of workers in the cultural sector. This is about MBOs, it is about HBOs, and it is perhaps also about people with very different pre-schools and a very different origin. But this is being worked on, so this is really an unnecessary addition. Finally, Mrs Kuik's broadly signed motion on the involvement of parents in information, if I may paraphrase the motion briefly. That seems to me to be a good proposal. That's a motion I'm giving you, Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u190	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-06-tweedekamer-15.u191	The motions will be put to the vote next Tuesday. I'll close the meeting and wish everyone a safe journey home.
