ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u1	The next item is the 30-member debate on the problems of salt extraction in Groningen. Welcome to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Beckerman on behalf of the SP. Speaking time is three minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u2	Diesel leakage. Leakage of brine water, millions of gallons. Four cavers collapsed in ten years. Earthquakes. Possible sinkholes. Bottoms down. Cracking houses. Weak houses. Damage to soil and nature. Possible groundwater contamination. Uncautious use of diesel in the words of the SodM regulator, a potentially serious threat to man and the environment. Mr. Chairman. Almost all incidents were said in advance: that's not gonna happen, you know, that's really impossible. But they did. Afterwards, it had to be admitted that things could seem to go wrong. But we don't know what's going to happen in the future. Monitoring also indicates this: more research is needed. Residents don't feel taken seriously. No, Mr. Chairman, neighbors haven't been taken seriously. They're dealing with the damage and the uncertainty. My first question to the Minister is therefore: do the advantages of salt extraction still outweigh the disadvantages? Does the Minister consider that the precautionary principle is correctly applied by the government? Is safety at the top of the line? The SP believes that we must do everything we can to prevent new problems caused by salt extraction. Let's look at the salt extraction area in Groningen. Both gas and salt are extracted from different layers. Within a 10-km radius of Zuidlaarderveen, there have been more than 200 earthquakes due to gas extraction, 200 earthquakes. That's where the problems come in from salt extraction, I mentioned them just now The SodM will now continue to investigate the risks of stacking different mining activities. So we don't know how big problems are or are being caused by stacked mining. Still, there are plans for new salt extraction pits, both in Groningen and under the Wadden Sea. Does the Minister consider that we should not allow new salt extraction in stacked mining sites until we know more about the risks? Is the Minister prepared to draw up a plan for salt extraction? Mr. Chairman. We must avoid problems and we must solve existing problems through salt extraction. Are we finally gonna take neighbors with damage seriously? When is the new window where they can end up in order to get their damages reimbursed? Gas extraction from the Groningenveld is subject to the reversal of the burden of proof. People with damage don't have to prove themselves that it's from the gas extraction. The arbitrator now applies this principle to gas extraction from Drenthe. Can this also be applied to stacked mining? After all, it is really impossible as a resident to show which gas or salt was the culprit. Finally, Mr President. Who's gonna clean up the mess later? According to state supervision, companies generally do not pay sufficient attention to long-term hazards. What's the Minister gonna do about this? Do the salt winners have enough money to solve damage and problems now and in the future? Is there a fund being created yet? The Mining Act states that when a company, including the licence held by the company, is transferred, that company must make a request to the Minister to keep the licence. The financial position must also be reviewed. AkzoNobel has been taken over by Nouyon. Has the said procedure taken place? My last sentence, my last appeal to the Minister. The problems caused by salt extraction must never get as out of hand as they have been caused by the government in the process of gas extraction. Take it, let the interests of neighbors outweigh the economic importance of salt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u3	Thank you. I call Mr Wassenberg on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u4	Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about the problems of salt extraction; a process that the Minister believes should be safe, responsible and future-proof. Should be. Mrs. Beckerman has already mentioned it. An earthquake in Groningen caused by the collapse of a salt cavern. Kilometre-long pipes straight through different layers of the earth in an area where soil movements occur by gas extraction anyway. Dieselekkage at different locations. Possible contamination of the drinking water as a result. Drills, with diesel, under the Wadden Sea. The Wadden Sea, which is already threatened by soil decline and rising sea levels, the first caused by gas extraction, the second by climate change. Mr. Chairman. According to the Party for Animals, salt extraction is not sufficiently safe, insufficiently responsible and not future-proof. Strong action is needed. First of all, I would ask the Minister to prevent the planned salt extraction under the Wadden Sea from taking place. The fragile nature of the Wadden Sea is currently very hard to endure. I refer to the recent container disaster. I've just come from a hearing on the consequences of that container disaster. The Wadden Sea and the islands have been interfering with this disaster for many years to come. Salt extraction, resulting in a further decline in soil and in any case a blood link through the use of diesel, is really the very-, very last thing this area needs. Also on land we find salt extraction very undesirable. The construction of pipes through which diesel and brine water is pumped into an area where you know that the soil is shifting considerably is asking for difficulties. Mr. Chairman. Earlier, the minister of government failure spoke of non-Dutch proportions when it comes to gas extraction. The reason for that government failure was that everything that could have been around the gas extraction had to be, because otherwise you would have been a thief of your own wallet. Let us not make the same mistakes here, given the fact that an earthquake was observed in Groningen which is believed to have been caused by salt extraction. Can the Minister explain how this is consistent with the SodM's thesis in the report State of the salt sector that soil decline in salt extraction is not accompanied by seismic activity? What are the consequences for the risk assessment now that it appears that it is? Mr. Chairman. My final point is that the use of diesel in salt extraction must really be stopped. There is an approved motion from colleagues Sienot and Beckerman and myself calling on the government to achieve the phasing-out of diesel oil as soon as possible and by 2021 at the latest. The Minister states that there will be a recommendation in mid-2019, in a few months' time, but there may not be alternatives everywhere. What does the lack of alternatives to risk locations mean? Does that mean a stop on the salt extraction on the spot? That would be the only option for the Party for Animals. Salt extraction must be safe, responsible and future-proof, and otherwise not at all. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u5	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Van der Lee on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We had a rather extensive general discussion on salt extraction not so long ago, so I do not want to repeat that. I would like to dwell in particular today on a new extraction plan submitted by Nedmag, because it shows, among other things, that we are taking into account a very large bottom drop of almost one metre, 95 centimeters, and I believe we are already at 46 centimeters. I understand from the answer to written questions from Mrs Beckerman that a bottom drop of over 50 centimetres is actually not allowed at all. So I wonder what the ratio behind this extraction plan is at all. Of course, the SodM has to look at this, but perhaps the Minister can already shed some light on why such a mining plan is being submitted at all, all the more so because it is a region where there is stacked mining. We have often talked about this, and two other colleagues have already mentioned it. In addition, there are also groundwater problems and increasing drought in the Netherlands. The Knowledge Centre Foundation problem has not been so long ago that one million homes in the Netherlands have problems with the foundation due to the drought caused by climate change. All these factors affect the soil. However, I would like to ask the Minister whether it is not time, especially when it comes to the subsurface in Groningen, to examine very carefully all those factors that can influence soil decline before decisions are taken on new extraction plans. Another aspect of extraction, namely the use of diesel, has already been discussed extensively in the previous debate. I'm against using diesel, especially under the Wadden Sea. I'm willing to wait for an alternative for use in other places. I wonder if the Minister can say anything about the progress that is being made in finding that alternative. Other colleagues have also mentioned the earthquake related to salt extraction. The KNMI then indicated that there were two hypotheses about the cause of this. Is it now known what the real cause of that earthquake was? Or can we simply not repeat this because we can no longer trace it back? The region also calls for improved measuring equipment. Has there been any progress in this respect? Is the Minister going to put any extra work into that? We have recently received a letter stating that there will be a mining damage commission, which will deal with the damage. I think that's very good. It must be all the damage related to mining outside the Groningen region, and also part of Drenthe because of Norg and a number of other things. I think that's really positive. My question is whether extra work is being done to deal with the old damage cases as quickly as possible. And...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u7	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u8	Then I'm done, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u9	Your time is almost up. Ask your last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u10	I was just about to say, and I'm done with that, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u11	Then I said thank you at exactly the right time. I call Mr Kops. He speaks for the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. After the gas extraction we are now talking about salt extraction. There were four earthquakes at Winschoten a year and a half ago. The KNMI has carried out research and the State surveillance of the Mines has commissioned the establishment of a monitoring network to better detect vibrations. That all sounds very forceful, but what now? In the meantime, what did those readings do? And since the KNMI is known for its wrong readings, and the cabinet also has a hand in shuffling numbers, I also ask how reliable these figures actually are. Mr. Chairman. Even though the earthquakes at Winschoten have not been very violent, residents are of course very concerned. Have there been any more tremors around salt extraction sites? And what about the risk of sinkholes? The SodM concludes that salt extraction companies do not take sufficient account of sudden sinkings and deep pits. How is the Minister going to prevent the whole thing from collapsing suddenly, with all the consequences of that? I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u13	There's been an interruption by Mrs. Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u14	Mr Kops of the PVV spoke of "camping with figures" by the cabinet. The Minister will be able to answer for himself later. However, he also talked about cheating with figures through state surveillance of the Mines, if I have heard correctly. Let me get this straight, because I think the SodM is a very important club. So if the PVV puts it in the corner, I want to be very clear about whether or not it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u15	No, I didn't say that, if I'm right. I said the KNMI didn't make the right measurements. These are accelerometers that have not properly processed the ground accelerations. The Minister himself admitted that in one of his letters. These accelerometers map the effects of tremors at different depths. It's about numbers from the KNMI.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u16	Then I note that there are no questions from the PVV about figures from the SodM, but about figures from the KNMI. We will have another debate on this in a few weeks' time, because everyone has questioned what happened there. It is therefore a legitimate point of the PVV and it is necessary to look closely at it. But about the SodM there are no questions with the PVV Group?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u17	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u18	Mr. Kops, you can continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u19	Mr. Chairman. Meanwhile AkzoNobel wants to win salt in Zuiderveen. If there is so much misery, uncertainty and uncertainty, I ask the Minister if he shares the view that the last thing you should do right now is to open up new salt extraction sites. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The Minister wrote in his letter: "The current policy on salt extraction has the same strict conditions that apply to the other mining sectors. The extraction of salt may only take place for as long as it is safe and sound." We've seen how that went with the gas extraction. Groningen gas extraction is anything but safe and responsible. With certainty, the Minister writes that salt extraction can continue safely. Also with certainty, the company Nouryon told the city council of Pekela that damage to homes was not caused by salt extraction. The Temporary Committee on Mining Damage also stated with certainty that none of the claims for damages examined could establish a relationship between damage and salt extraction. A lot of certainty. When the gas extraction started, that certainty was there and it was also said that it would all work out. How does the Minister guarantee that the safety of local residents will not be compromised by salt extraction and will not be endangered in any way in the future? Is the Minister also prepared to close down salt extraction sites if necessary, if there is a potential danger?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u20	The PVV and D66 find each other in that we should handle the substrate as safely and as carefully as possible. Do I fully understand the PVV that we need to take every source that can cause problems as seriously as possible and that we need to mitigate the risks of gas extraction, salt extraction and geothermal energy as much as possible? Do we understand each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u21	It is about the residents, it is about the risk and the risk that they are walking and it is about damage to homes, buildings. If damage is caused by vibrations in the ground, no matter what the cause is, we must do everything we can to prevent it. Regardless of whether it's gas extraction or salt extraction that's causing misery, to put it very simply, we have to do something about it. In other words, we must prevent that. If salt extraction sites cause problems, they simply need to be closed down. It is like the extraction of gas: of course there is no doubt that the extraction of gas has caused a great deal of misery. That's why it needs to go to zero as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u22	That all sounds very good, but then I have the next question. Today it has become known that the drought is to a large extent caused by too much CO emissions and that climate-adaptive measures will enable us to combat drought. Now the PVV is often against that. But also the drought is an important cause of all kinds of movements in the subsurface and subsidence of houses. Can I count on the PVV to go along with us in future, precisely in order to avoid this sort of thing?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u23	I may be wrong, but I don't think I've ever heard of SodM about damage to houses that would be caused by vibrations in the soil due to drought. I could be wrong, you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u24	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u25	No, Mr. Sienot. The interruption was in two. I see another interruption by Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u26	I hear from the PVV colleague that salt extraction should only be possible if it can be safe.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u27	Sure, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u28	I also hear the PVV colleague asking the Minister if he can guarantee that. I also heard him answer questions from Mrs Mulder of the CDA about the SodM. In my opinion, the PVV has also indicated that it has no doubts about the capabilities of the SodM. So I would like to know from Mr Kops whether he agrees with me that the independent supervisor in this matter is the SodM and that the SodM is monitoring whether or not it can be safe. If the SodM says that this can be done safely, then we all have to conform to it, because then the independent supervisor indicates that it can be done safely. I would not want the Minister to measure there himself and see if he can do that. We have an independent supervisor for that. I'd like to know if the PVV shares that image.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u29	I'm just thinking, but I think we just agree. Indeed, the Minister himself does not carry out any measurements; of course not. In my opinion, the SodM has indicated here in the Chamber of Commerce that salt extraction in the Netherlands can proceed safely, provided that appropriate risk management measures are taken. That's what the minister writes in his letter. Of course that all sounds fine, but if there are tremors in practice, if residents are worried and if there is damage, then of course we have to do something about it. That is why we have this debate here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u30	Of course, then we have to do something about it. Of course, that is what this is about, but I heard Mr Kops in his speech asking all kinds of questions to the Minister, which I think should be put to the SodM, to the independent supervisor who is responsible for safety. I fully agree with all the recommendations of the SodM, all of which have been followed by the Minister, that we should then look at how we do that and how we communicate about it. However, I note that half of the questions that the PVV has just asked the Minister have been put to the wrong person. Those questions really belong to the independent supervisor. I like to ask those questions, because I have the same concerns, but let's leave them to those who go about it. Then I think we'll get a whole end ahead for all the Dutch who are worried about this too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u31	If we have to follow this reasoning, we should all go home, because then we should not have a debate. To put it simply: we are dealing here with this minister. This minister is responsible for the situation in Groningen as well. That is why I ask my questions to the Minister. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u32	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u33	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u34	I call Mr Sienot on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u35	Mr. Chairman. The inhabitants of Groningen haven't asked for rumblings in their soil and D66 doesn't want them stuck with the mess either, because wherever you live, the State has to guarantee your safety, especially in Groningen, where in addition to gas extraction, salt extraction now also causes tremors. If we want to reap the benefits of our soil, the government must take responsibility for the people and the surroundings. After all, a safe bottom is the foundation of a solid house. It is therefore quite understandable that Groningers are worried, with all that rumbling in their soil. The letter of inquiry sent by the Minister following the earthquake at Heiligerlee was found to be the cause. Do we know by now what the exact cause of the tremors was? And what are the chances of repetition? For every type of soil rumbling, including salt extraction projects, the risk of damage should be limited and preferably prevented. Can the Minister tell us how the safety risks are covered in the granting of the authorisation? And is there sufficient capacity to enforce those permits? If you suffer damage from salt extraction, you can go to Nedmag, the company that wins the salt itself. In gas extraction, we solved this problem with one compensation window. The region is also in favour of this. Veendam has even adopted a motion unanimously recently and Oldambt and Midden-Groningen are also concerned. I have just heard that my colleagues, among others from the SP, have already mentioned this. A large majority in this Chamber has already put the Minister to work with a one-stop shop for stacked mining. How is the implementation of this motion by our colleague Henk Nijboer? Mr. Chairman. Is a compensation window going to work if there is no fund to compensate for that damage, one fund, filled by everyone who carries out mining activities? Would the Minister like to explore whether such a fund could be linked to such a counter? And does the Minister have an assessment of when such a fund is robust enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u36	That is, of course, a good question from my colleague, because it is indeed bizarre: you live in such a place where there are four layers of mining, gas is extracted from the Groningen field, gas is extracted from a Drenthe field and salt is extracted in two places, and if you have damage to your home, everyone points to each other. I am pleased to hear that my colleague is also in favour of a compensation fund and a one-stop shop. I would like to ask him whether he is also in favour of the reversal of the burden of proof being applied in these cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u37	I have to admit that I think it is a good question, and I do not have the answer one-two-three, because I do not fully understand what is being achieved. My second question would be: what exactly is the purpose of this and how do we make people happy with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u38	That's how we get somewhere: making people happy. They're not with the government right now. They have damage to their homes and can't go anywhere now or they won't be compensated for their damage. Suppose your house is broken, but there's both two layers of gas under your house and several layers of salt. And that's all gonna be won, and that's all gonna be earned. Then how are you supposed to prove that this rift was caused by gas or salt extraction? It's very complicated. If you reverse that burden of proof, you say you have a crack in your house and the miners have to prove it's not because of them. That makes it easier for the residents. I hope you are in favour now, I say through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u39	I welcome this explanation of the question. It's a very fair question. For gas, we've already done that. In the case of gas, such a strong relationship has been established that there was every reason to do so. With salt I dare not say this with so much certainty, although we are talking about it today: for the first time there has been a quake that had a relationship with the salt. Look, where the SP and D66 find each other, is that you don't want to send people with a brat in the reeds. We agree on that. People have damage to their homes; if this is due to economic activities in the soil to almost some extent, then I think that the reversal of evidence is a very justified option, whether it be gas, salt or anything else.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u40	Thank you. Mr Sienot continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u41	In Friesland, where salt extraction takes place, a cooperation agreement has been concluded between citizens, government and industry. There will be a comprehensive zero measurement and the hand-to-the-crane principle will apply to the municipality. How does the Minister assess the cooperation agreement in Friesland? Does he advise this approach in other mining projects? Mr. Chairman. Living in safety, life and recreation: that's what D66 is all about. We can only reap the fruits of our soil if the government guarantees that this will be done safely and responsibly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u42	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Mulder on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u43	Mr President, thank you. In Winschoten, our inhabitants are dealing with earthquakes caused by stacked mining, namely the extraction of gas from the Groningen field and the extraction of salt. First of all, I would like to ask the Minister whether, as a result of the earthquakes or a fall in soil above the salt caverns, there have also been reports of damage to Nouryon. If so, how will this damage be dealt with? The Minister has indicated that residents can go to the Temporary Committee on Mining Damage in Groningen for this stacked mining. Given the reservoir that is there, I ask the Minister how these claims are dealt with. In addition, I would like to hear from the Minister whether the monitoring of the caverns with acoustic measuring equipment has been set up by Nouryon and whether State surveillance of the Mines agrees with the planned monitoring. Are there sufficient accelerometers available in the area? If that monitoring isn't there yet, when will it be? It was supposed to be there by 2018, Mr. Chairman. To what extent is salt extracted from salt caverns at Winschoten? The SodM indicates on its website that there is no long-term solution for the abandonnering of the caverns at Heiligerlee and Zuidwending. Is the Minister prepared to discuss this with the SodM and salt extraction companies to ensure that the caverns are secured for the long term? We get the impression that it is not yet well arranged. Other colleagues also spoke about this. We all have concerns about that, Mr. Chairman. It is also necessary to prevent old pipes from leaking, as happened in Twente. To what extent does this play out here and what actions are being taken against it? Because of the big problems with the gas extraction in Groningen, residents are anything but enthusiastic about mining. This calls for more effort to involve residents in the mining companies. The CDA sees the pilot Harlingen at the salt extraction there as a good way to do this. Residents have entered into the conversation with mining companies themselves and a covenant has emerged from that. I believe that Mr Sienot referred to this as well. The question is whether this is included in the agreements made with the salt companies for their own damage protocol. The colleagues of the SP and GroenLinks have asked questions about how we continue to deal with local authorities. Are they well involved in all matters, as reported to the Chamber in the Minister's letter of December? And how does that work for residents? I should also like to point out, for example, that residents bring forward the following points. Nedmag has a shareholder: the NOM. And the NOM is again covered by EZ. And that's how you get suspicion about how salt extraction works when it's also a business case for the government itself. Mr. Chairman. I hope that the Minister will be able to contribute in a good way to the confidence that, in this case too, the people and local authorities are being treated properly. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u44	Thank you. I see another... No? Oh, I thought you were interrupting, Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius. Excuse me. I give the floor to Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u45	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It wasn't an interruption, because I heard a good story. Salt has been incredibly important to humans and animals since prehistoric times. No other material has played such a crucial role in economic and social terms. We don't just use it as a flavor maker with our food, but we also need it physically. It is used to store food. But it is also, for example, the basis of the chemistry in our country. It's used for making paper, for medicine, for soap, for glass and so on. The extraction of salt also goes far back in time. When we zoom in on the Netherlands, we see that the first salt extraction started in Twente in 1889. Since then, salt extraction has become an important sector in our country. Thousands and thousands of people work daily in salt production and depend on it for their sandwiches. At the same time, we also see that in recent years there have been concerns about salt extraction: concerns about leaks and concerns about how to proceed with the cavities that arise after the extraction. You have heard the VVD say more often: we must take these concerns very seriously. Salt extraction is an important sector for our country, but it is also part of this that we must always be alert to the fact that this is done properly and safely. At the end of last year, the supervisor, the State Monitoring of Mines, wrote a report with very clear recommendations. For example, there must be a good plan for the abandoned wells and cavities, the level of knowledge about what happens during extraction and then in the subsurface and where possible the use of diesel oil should be replaced by the use of nitrogen, for example. Mr. Chairman. The SodM clearly states that it is not just the here and now that needs to be looked at, but that a clear long-term vision is also needed. I was pleased to read that the Minister accepted all the recommendations. That was the end of last year. I would now like to get a state of affairs from the Minister. How's it going? When can you inform the Chamber of what has been done so far and what will happen next? I would also like to draw attention to transparent, good communication towards the people who live and work near the salt extraction sites. I know that the salt companies have already taken very big steps in this area, but I would like to draw attention to this once again. I would also like to know from the Minister what else we could do here together to ensure that people know where they stand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u46	Thank you. I see two MPs trying to interrupt. I think Mrs. Beckerman was the fastest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u47	Yeah, he ran!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u48	First of all, Mrs Beckerman on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u49	I didn't mean to run past Mr. Wassenberg at all, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u50	Yes, I saw you running!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u51	I thought it was a very nice speech by Mrs Yeşilgöz as an archaeologist. The first wars have been waged for salt. And the first elite of Europe, that of the Hallstatt culture, has become rich by salt mines. But my question is actually another one. At that time, economic importance was at the forefront. Now, in my opinion, the importance of local residents should be paramount. The SodM says that we don't really know what the risks are in places with stacked mining. Do you think that this is why we should take a step in the right direction and do some research before we allow new salt extraction?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u52	I think that Mrs Beckerman and I share the same concerns about the residents, who also work very much at those salt companies. I've talked to a lot of them. This really is about thousands of jobs. So we should not be too light about that. We need to keep a close eye on the balance: people need to know where they stand, but we should not be saying here that they should lose their jobs tomorrow. In my opinion, the SodM report also makes it very clear that it needs to be properly monitored. What happens to the ground, to the bottom? And how does that develop? I've seen the Minister endorse that, too. I fully agree with the SP that we should not only look at the long term now, but also at the long term, so that we do not say in 10, 20, 30 years: gosh, we should have kept an eye on that. So I think that salt extraction, where possible safely, should be able to continue, but at the same time we should monitor it properly. And maybe a lot better than we do now, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u53	I'm not really getting an answer to my question yet. Better monitoring is indeed important and jobs are also very important. But my question was the following. The SodM says: we don't know what's happening in places with stacked mining; we're going to do research on that. Should we allow new salt extraction in the meantime? That question hasn't been answered yet. I would also like to ask a second question. Are you prepared to consider whether there can be reversal of the burden of proof in those places, because it is really impossible for residents to show which salt or gas causes the damage?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u54	The SP colleague says, if I say it correctly, that we should not allow new awards there, at least not mining. I think the SodM is assessing whether it's safe. As soon as the SodM indicates "it can be safe, but these are the conditions you have to take into account," I want to take that advice very seriously. Then it is stated that it is safe, provided you arrange it very well on the side. That is also what the Minister clearly stated in his letter at the end of last year. He's taking over all these recommendations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u55	Does Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius share the Minister's view that salt extraction is only possible if it is safe, responsible and future-proof?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u56	Yeah, and I think I know the follow-up question, too, because I've had it before.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u57	Well, I don't think so. If we don't know how to leave the wells and the caverns at the moment, this is all part of the plan, can we say that salt extraction is safe, responsible and future-proof?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u58	The SodM formulates framework conditions for how to monitor this and what is needed for it. I think it's our job to fill that out here. The Minister has said in all these recommendations: I will take them over. That's exactly what it says in his letter, and then he explains it. That was a few months ago. I think it is very good that we are asking what the situation is and how we can monitor this with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u59	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u60	I'd like to ask you a few more questions, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u61	It was in two in two. Another interruption? Then we'll take the second one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u62	Yes, Mr. Chairman, then comes the second interruption. I don't think I'm gonna waste my interruption on Mr Nijboer. I'll probably agree with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u63	Well! I wouldn't take it, Mr. Nijboer. Anyway...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u64	Mr Nijboer knows me. The reason I am asking is that there are still major gaps in knowledge. But we're about to allow new locations, including under the Wadden Sea. When all these questions have not been answered and answered, can we guarantee that salt extraction is safe, responsible and future-proof? That was actually my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u65	In my view, both from the minister and from the sector, and all the experts around it, are currently working very hard to ensure that we do have a good exit plan and a long-term perspective. But that's happening right now. It'll just be filled in. I agree with you that we as a Chamber should be able to follow what that looks like next, so that we can be reassured that these conditions are being properly followed and designed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u66	The second part of my second interruption, Mr President. Actually, here's what I want to know. If these knowledge gaps are not all filled in immediately, I would say: do not catch up if in doubt, so do not do so in the absence of information. Does the VVD agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u67	I would normally say that personally, but here I would rather listen to the expert, the independent supervisor. It tells us whether or not we can do it there at the time, whether it's safe or not. I think it is wise to always listen to the independent supervisor, the expert.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u68	That's a nice little bridge to my question. I always like to listen to independent experts. I have to say, however, that in mining activities, those expert judgements from the past did not always provide a guarantee of safety in the future. In addition, we live in a time when transitions are big. We have a climate change that has an impact on water management in Dutch soils and on the foundations of government buildings, private homes and companies. There is a great deal of potential external damage, which may not necessarily be unsafe in the sense that you are injured or even dying because a building collapses, but may seriously affect society. Don't you think we should do broader research, especially on the subsurface in Groningen where both stacked mining activities take place and there is drought? We need to know better what all the risks are, not only in terms of security, but also in terms of social costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u69	I'm always for more knowledge and better prepared for what's coming to us and what we're doing right now. I hear Mr Van der Lee say that potential damage could seriously affect society. That's a lot of reservations. I don't want to hurt the sector. I don't want thousands of jobs on the road. I just want to keep it going, provided it's safe and competent. I do agree with Mr Van der Lee that we should not look unilaterally at this. We're talking about salt extraction today, but there's a lot going on there, so I absolutely share his need for more knowledge and skills. But I think we differ when it comes to what you do with it in the meantime. I think the salt extraction should be safe for the time being.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u70	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Nijboer on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u71	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm sorry I came in late, including the colleagues. I had to get a hearing with Shell at the finance committee while Shell refused to come. You can't be in two places at once, but that's why I decided to go a little later. Mr. Chairman. People living around salt extraction sites are becoming more and more concerned. That's understandable. There have been quite a lot of incidents lately, with Nedmag and also in other places. My picture is that there were more of these than in the past. First of all, I ask the Minister how this can be done. How is it that the number of incidents is increasing? There'll be leaks again. Then there's another bullshit. Then they drill into a place that wasn't licensed. How is that even possible? Are you sure it's okay? The second question I would like to ask is about stacked mining. I have already heard the previous speakers on this subject. That is, of course, a big problem. People have enormous damage and there is really nothing to do with it. Because when they go to the NAM that plays in the two companies around Veendam says that: it's because of the salt extraction. When they go to Nedmag, they say, "It's from the NAM." And a third says it's late maintenance or they live on the wrong land. Those people have been stuck for years. I saw a draft motion by Mrs Beckerman about applying the reverse burden of proof. I think that's a very good idea. Then you take people out of uncertainty, because we let people get a little between shore and ship, when they can't help living in that place. I ask the Minister how far he is in implementing the motion that I have tabled so that people can go to one place with their damage. Mr Sienot has just referred to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u72	We have, of course, discussed this before in a debate by the Committee on Mining. The Minister also sent a letter on 20 March 2019. In it, he specifically indicates what he is doing in this area. He says about situations where there is damage caused by soil movement due to stacked mining: "If necessary, the receiving authority will transfer the remaining claim to the competent authority after treatment. This leads, in all cases, to a substantive assessment of the claim submitted after the one-off submission of the claim." This is a bit of a legal language.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u73	Exactly. I'm listening to you very carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u74	You have had this answer, of course, in essence. So it's being picked up, but the question is, how does it go with the new mining engineering committee? But that it's being picked up by the minister, doesn't the PvdA recognize?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u75	Yes, I have, of course, read this letter and it leads me to the questions I have just asked. What exactly is it about? Who can they report to now? 'Cause it's been transferred. Is the NAM gonna do it? Who exactly is gonna do that? This is exactly why I am asking you about this, because you are right: it is legal language. We are co-legislators, but we are not all lawyers and certainly not the residents. I believe that the Minister can clarify this precisely in this debate. Mr. Chairman. There are a number of other things going on around the salt extraction. People hear a very low hum sound, at least if you can hear it. Did the Minister investigate that? The problems are very intense. Those people hear that all day. Is that because of the salt extraction? What is causing this and what is being done about it? There are also risks with regard to groundwater quality. Others also talked about the leaks of diesel oil. I believe that Mr Van der Lee said in a motion at the time that this should be over. What are the health risks? Are they enough in the picture? State supervision of the Mines is mainly concerned with mining, but that is quite different from public health and clean water. Are you sure that's taken care of? Finally. It is sad to see that salt has been extracted for so long and that anxiety is increasing rather than decreasing. You would say that people already have a lot of experience with it and know how it works, but actually the image is exactly the opposite. So I'm curious how the minister will take care of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u76	Thank you. I shall suspend the sitting until 4.50 p.m. so that the Minister can prepare himself for the reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u77	I shall reopen the sitting on the subject of the 30-member debate on the problems of salt extraction in Groningen. I give the floor to the Minister to answer the questions raised by the various groups in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u78	Mr. Chairman. I would first like to try to answer as many questions as possible in a kind of logical argument, but experience has shown that there are always questions I have missed. They are, in some way, equally legitimate, but they do not fit in with my speech. So I'll do it after and in order. Salt extraction. It was Mrs Yeşilgöz who pointed out history in a very eloquence manner and she was equally eloquently supplemented by Mrs Beckerman. My speech was not that thorough at all. So thank you for that. I would like to elaborate on this, because it is also an economic issue and I stand for it. The fact is, salt isn't just salt or something for your egg. It is essentially a basic raw material for industry. There are not so many basic raw materials in industry. Oil and salt are very prominent in that. We use this product in all kinds of ways. This has a specific impact on employment. In the case of salt extraction, it is specifically the case that not only extraction has employment, but that is what you see all over the world: the processing of salt is also taking place at or very close to extraction. The corresponding employment rate is therefore also very regional. Salt extraction takes place at large energy suppliers or at the source. That is the case in the Netherlands. At our locations you can see that the processing is very close and that means that the employment effects often go beyond what is happening in direct extraction. They are estimates and for one region it is more than for the other. In total, it is estimated that between 2,000 and 3,000 people directly owe their jobs to this salt extraction. Especially at Nedmag, where direct salt extraction may employ between 100 and 150 people, the number of employees in the area just rises to more than 1,000 employees who are employed there. All in all, a strong employment effect. But employment is not everything, as we all know. We have been prepared in history to issue all kinds of economic rules or stop things if it was no longer justified. The question is therefore legitimate whether the benefits and disadvantages are still in balance. That question may be asked, as Mr Nijboer did at the end philosophically and as many others did. That question goes beyond a question to SodM. Yes, there are questions that belong to SodM, but this question also belongs here. There are different risks. There are risks of stability and seismicity. We've had a leak. We have the diesel issue. In all these cases, a supervisor or an expert has already interfered. Look at the stability. We can't let the cavities crash. 33 cavernes have been identified, particularly in Twente, which are not stable. Something's being done about that. The extraction process has now been adapted. They're being filled. SodM oversees this. So that objection has now been sealed, although we might have wanted to see it through earlier. Several questions have been asked about the leaks of the pipes in Twente. They're under enhanced surveillance. A large part of the mains network has been renewed. This year there are hardly any more leaks to report. The monitoring system is active. All these things are done. With diesel we are still eagerly looking. One of you asked when we'd be there. SodM has, I think, a first inventory at the beginning of the fourth quarter and wants to form an opinion on it with experts afterwards. I am not going to anticipate whether this means that extraction must be stopped where there are no alternatives. It's not that binary. Let's wait and see about that investigation first. Then the question remains whether the benefits outweigh the disadvantages. Well, not everywhere: that can't possibly be the case anywhere. But it is an important consideration, because the advantages and disadvantages are both particularly in the regions countries. Regions appreciate local employment very much. This complicates the position of the regions. With Nedmag things are now quiet. There is a danger of a threat to employment. On the other hand, regional directors will agree with me on the need to safeguard safety and cover the risks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u79	I've been listening to the Minister for a while. We share that you need to look for a balance. But if you have a tear or a tear in your house and you don't know what's causing it, it's no good that 2,000 people get a job through it. A government that first of all does everything in its power to prevent it and, when it does, does everything in its power to fix it as quickly and easily as possible. Does the Minister agree with us that this is the key question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u80	That's exactly what I think is right. There are cases, which will also arise in the future, where it is no longer justified. That's where you put it. Where you don't stop it, you know there's always risks. I found it very well expressed by Mr Sienot, although he may have said something else: if a public interest is served, a government should take care of the individual injured and stand firm for it. That's, I think, what we're doing. We'll see where the risks are sufficiently manageable. They're not gone; so there are risks. So it's possible that someone might become a victim of those risks. Then there must be a provision where people can go; I very much agree with that. Mr Nijboer asked about this. This has to do, among other things, with the window. I'll come back to that at the end of my story. But I very much agree with Mr Sienot. I've let go of my thoughts before about how the damage handling went at the gas field in Groningen. There an individual household was placed opposite a professional organisation like the NAM. The government, which may have found it to be a public interest, strangely enough did not belong in that chain. I thought that was wrong. When it comes to the public interest, we also have a public responsibility there. We must ensure that this is done, not by having every problem solved by the government, but by providing a system that ensures that people have legal certainty and can go somewhere. I agree with him very much. In that system, there is also a need for supervision. I am not going to repeat Mrs Yeşilgöz's interruption, but it is very clear, also from her story, and I would like to confirm here, that we need independent parties. It's not for me to determine if anything is safe. I might be able to determine that, but I think that's what everyone thinks of themselves, but I might suspect my successor not to do it objectively anymore. It's important I don't. It is also important that I should say in all honesty that this Chamber does not do so. We need independent parties. Just as the case law is organized independently, you also have to look at risks independently. This must be done by someone who looks at it technically and does not feel burdened to give a positive or negative opinion on it. It is that supervisor, who never feels very limited in making firm statements. We have also appreciated this supervisor many times for that too, who in his State of the sector says the sentence that has literally been read out by Mr Kops. That's what I like to go for. But that supervisor wasn't just "flag and blink." It has given clear signals to two parties: about six to the government, a whole list of recommendations, and all kinds of recommendations to the sector. We're going to follow them all, because that's the duty. If an independent supervisor sends strong messages, you must also do everything in your power to meet them. Do the benefits outweigh the disadvantages? So I'd like to reverse that question. We should only get started if the benefits outweigh the disadvantages. The assessment of its risks lies with the SodM. Where it can't be safe anymore, we shouldn't do it anymore. Where the balance is not good, we must opt for security. In some cases, we will have to choose against employment. One part of it is that I applaud the fact that the legal certainty is the legal certainty. Several questions were asked about this, first of all by Mrs Beckerman, and later in a dialogue involving Mr Sienot, about the suspicion of evidence. I have to say, technically, that the presumption of evidence is not an inverse burden of proof. That's not how it works. You can't say: we assume that any damage in this country is caused by mining and you can prove otherwise. Causality still needs to be defined, but the burden of proof of those who have been duped has been lightened. He does not have to produce large stacks of seismic reports, but has a lighter burden of proof and only has to make it plausible. It's up to the other, if it's been made plausible, to come up with those stacks of reports to prove it's not. It looks like a reverse burden of proof, but it's not. I thought it was a good question from Mrs Beckerman when she said: hey, that's funny. So in the case of stacked mining, we have one case where there is evidence and one where that is not true. So if you don't know what it's about, and you don't need to know it as a private person, how do you deal with it? Do you have to submit a stack of reports in one case, and in the other case, does the lighter story apply? How does that even work? In the meantime, we have introduced into our system something we did not have at the time of the suspicion of proof. In any case, we believe that the Tcbb writes that even the injured should be relieved, not only by that suspicion of proof, but at all by placing it in the hands of experts. In the past, in this case, you had to prove to the NAM, with all the lawyers and experts together, that you had suffered damage as a result of gas extraction. Now, in a sense, you're free from that burden of proof, but you put it in the hands of a party that chooses or assesses it for itself, but is neutral. It doesn't work for one or the other. You no longer stand against lawyers of the NAM, but against someone who wants to do justice, participates in a more or less public system and intends to care for the person who has been hurt and to provide an objective judgment. That may be that it's about gas extraction and it may be that it's about salt extraction. In this way, the duped is taken care of. This is important and in line with what Mr Sienot has just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u81	Suppose I live in Trips Company or Borger Company and I have a crack in my house. I'm going to the new committee that's about to be set up and I'm saying it's gas. She'll make a report to prove it's not from gas, but that crack is still there. Do I still have to make a report as a duped that it's because of salt? Or is that committee going to make that report on its own?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u82	I would say that it is sufficient for the injured person to report to the counter and say: I think I have suffered damage as a result of a mining activity. Then it is up to those experts to find out if that is the case and what kind of mining activity that is. This is, of course, necessary in order to identify the underlying payer. I don't think we should burden the duped with making long reports on one type of mining damage or the other type of mining damage. That wouldn't be a worry. Then he'll have to make a choice, which he thinks comes first. It's pretty hard to ask from a private person.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u83	Okay, so there will be two mining damage institutes: one for the Groningenveld, the successor to the right of TCMG, and the other for the rest of the Netherlands. Someone in Borgercompany can choose which one to report to and is always treated in the same way. That person does not have to make himself plausible that it is because of a particular activity and does not have to write those reports himself. Is that what the Minister says? And could he also say when that window is there for these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u84	It's when. That's a very good question. The purpose of the window is not to keep it as complex as it is now. The intention is to write to the Tcbb to take care of the person who caused the damage, regardless of the mining activity, and not to let him produce all those reports himself. We should not go back to the situation where the private was opposed to the NAM, or to X, Y or Z. If different points of contact are available, this is only in Groningen and around Norg..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... You don't want to sink through the ice either because you just happened to have called in at the wrong window. That's the kind of thing we need to get rid of. The aim is to bring legal certainty and to avoid the big versus small dilemma. There must be more objectivity in this. I will not come up with the details of how this is going to be done, because we are still working on how these procedures are going to work. It is intended that the care has the same character. I'll come back to you when this is gonna happen. Mr Nijboer asked that question. If Mrs. Beckerman did, I'm gonna cut her short if I don't mention her. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Beckerman said that guarantees must be provided when the licence is transferred from one owner to another. Well, that's what happened, from AkzoNobel to Nouryon. The procedure is simply carried out, under review, through the system prescribed by the law, whether the company has sufficient knowledge and financial resources. If necessary, this will be enforced. Mrs Beckerman asked a question, but I think it was actually a position, which I agree with, that the mess should eventually be cleaned up. The holder of the authorisation shall withdraw mining work from service after the end of the mining operation. That includes a closure plan. That area must be restored to its original state. There are all kinds of rules in mining legislation on the decommissioning of wells and wells and that is also under the supervision of the SodM. Each licence holder must therefore also have sufficient financial resources to clean up everything and make reservations for it. That is the way we force and prescribe how to clean up the mess. And that Mining Act also requires financial guarantees for this, so that there are sufficient resources. Mr Wassenberg also asks a question which may be more of a statement. He doesn't think it's safe enough. With all due respect, I appreciate that he himself has a political view on this, but I must abide by the security judgments of the SodM. In the field of the Wadden Sea we do what is allowed and what is allowed according to the licences issued. We are doing justice to the coalition agreement, but we are not going to overdo it in a 30-member debate. Then he asks my view on SodM's statement that soil decline is not associated with seismicity. I do not have any views on this, because I do not think I should have any views on the statements of a party that supervises me. I can only try to give an explanation, but that is freestyling. SodM believes that the bottom decrease is not associated with seismicity and that these are two different things. Nevertheless, SodM does not exclude that salt extraction can be accompanied by seismicity, but that is another story. That is another theorem and does not contradict SodM's theorem. The opposition I heard from Mr Wassenberg in the rhetoric does not, in fact, seem to me to be a contradiction. For the time being, therefore, I insist that I have no views on this statement by SodM. Then there are some questions from Mr Van der Lee. It is clear that that dilemma is the worst there. Mr Van der Lee calls Nedmag. I am being approached with the request to continue with this and to speed up, because jobs could be at stake there. At the same time, of course, it is a serious issue and there is much to assess and investigate. The extraction plan must be assessed, and I expect that decision-making to take place, quite frankly, not before December of this year. If it requires additional research, this is for the assessment of the people who are to assess it, then that should be done. So I feel this dilemma very much here. I stand for security, legally secured with my position behind it, but at the same time I stand for employment and understand that people can worry about it. So that dilemma is here. This is how it gets felt. I think we should look for a combination of sufficient thoroughness and no unnecessary delay, because this is where the dilemma lies. The cause of that quake. The mechanism of the earthquake is not entirely clear and that was also the reason to extend that monitoring network, because with more data you might be able to determine what that mechanism is. The measuring equipment is now operational. It's built, operational and working. It has been installed and, should it occur again, we need to know more about the mechanism. We hope it's not necessary at all and we've installed the measuring equipment for nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u85	Thank you to the Minister for replying. I have a question about Nedmag's extraction plan. I was really shocked by the bottom drop of 95 centimeters in less than three decades. That's a huge drop! Of course, an expert's knowledge is superior to mine or the minister's knowledge, but doesn't it stress, given all the facts we now know about what is happening to our soil, that much deeper than normal research needs to be done into all possible potential risks?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u86	Well, I don't know. It is precisely the fact that someone has been able to estimate that soil decline that may not require more research, but that this must be taken into account in the assessment. So there are numbers right here. It has also been said a few times already: should we not stop everything while there are uncertainties? We know that everything that happens in the subsurface, whether you interfere with that subsurface or not, carries risks. The characteristic of risk is that it's things you don't know, and life is full of risks. At the end, perhaps I will say something about Mr Nijboer's question. I thought that might be the most interesting question philosophically, and I can only guess at it. I don't know the answer, I'll say it in advance, but I think it's the most interesting question. The fact that there are risks doesn't mean you have to stop everything. It means that you have to do at most something to assess those risks, and once you think you know enough, sometimes take that risk. That too, of course, is ultimately a consideration. If we decide in the future to reduce risk tolerance to zero, we should all be stuck in our dining room chair all day long. It's a political consideration, but I'm not doing it here. We have now invested this with the experts who are allowed to press this window and push a button at any time if the risk becomes too great.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u87	Very briefly. I have to think about the statement about the "know unknowns" and the "unknown unknowns." I think it was Rumsfeld who said that. We live in a time when, especially in the Netherlands, there is a lot going on with the soil, and at a higher rate than we have seen in a long time. My point is in particular: I also hope that the Minister understands with the SodM report that there is probably additional reason to look even more closely at: what are the risks we can say about with some certainty? And are there any risks that we can actually say something about with much less certainty? Can this also be mentioned in the findings of the SodM?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u88	Look, risks are different. Bigger risks are things you know less about than small risks by definition. However, at the highest level of abstraction, I would like to try to carefully contradict Mr Van der Lee on one point. He says: The Netherlands is now a country where there is a lot going on in the soil. That's true compared to some time ago. And compared to almost the whole world, that's not true. The Netherlands is a country that has a very low seismicity, even if we take recent history with us. Very innocent and pleasant, holiday-like foreigners fall into the basket when you study their seismicity. Then you tend to reconsider the camping holiday, but I would also advise against it. Then I come to Mr Kops.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u89	There is another interruption by Mr Sienot.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u90	Did I just hear the Minister say that we still don't really know what's causing these tremors, that it's still guessing?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u91	Well, guessing is another big word. The precise mechanism behind it has not been exposed in this particular case. The monitoring equipment should be able to do so in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u92	It's about getting that sharp. So we have an activity that is currently demonstrably causing unrest in the soil. We don't know the mechanics well back there, and we have measuring devices to hang up to map out what that mechanism is. Then my question is as follows. If we don't know what it came from, and if we're going to measure now to see if we can map it and prevent it, what exactly do we learn, and what are indicators that make us know: hey, it's not going to happen? Exactly what can people who live in the neighborhood rely on with this information?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u93	It can never be said from this place that it's risk-free. This activity, like many activities in the economic field but also in the field of energy supply, is not entirely risk-free. How big the risks are, and how threatening they are, and how terrible it is that for some time you cannot expose the precise mechanism, which is currently at SodM's discretion. If the SodM would say "there are things that we can't explain at all, but which can have a kind of Black Swan-like effect in the future," it will also be the SodM that can stop it immediately. But that's the judgment we made with experts. Mr. Chairman. I am not going to answer Mr Kops' question as to whether the figures of the KNMI are reliable. I know that the KNMI will do everything in its power to deal with facts and measurements in a reliable manner. I know that if it comes to light that in some cases it should be better or not good enough, it must be corrected immediately. Nothing in our system, even in our ordered society where every garden path is raked, is completely flawless. But right now, I don't think there's a better body than the KNMI, with all the expertise that's there, to do this job. No one will ever be able to give Mr Kops the guarantee that everything is flawless. If anyone does, Mr Kops should look this person in the eye with great distrust, knowing that that can never be true. I know that suspicion from him; he is capable of it. Have there been more tremors at salt extractions? Yeah, there are. At Winschoten there were small quakes and on 7 January at Veendam. It is not a large number, but I say honestly that it could be because we do not know everything yet. But the number of tremors seems to be limited for the time being. Mr Kops also asks how we prevent sinkholes. That must be covered in the extraction plan. That extraction plan is assessed by SodM, Mijnraad, TNO and Tcbb. The salt must be extracted according to certain principles. These principles must ensure that the cavern remains stable and that those sinkholes cannot be created.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u94	In the meantime, the Minister has also answered a number of my questions and said that at least the measuring equipment is all operational. But now I just heard the Minister say: we've been able to detect some smaller earthquakes, but maybe we don't have enough picture yet. One of the questions I had was whether there are enough accelerometers available. Or is that number still to be increased? Then I would like to receive a few promises from the Minister today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u95	The specialists I'm asking say there are enough accelerometers. But I don't think it's weird to check that out. The people who are associated with it mean so, but it is not surprising to ask them directly. If I find out that there is any doubt about it, I will report it to the Chamber and I will also tell you what I am doing about it. So I admit that I will come back to this if necessary and put this on my list to test.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u96	Can this be done for the general consultation, our committee debate on 22 May? Then we know that too. This is precisely because these people before you know it have to deal with a stack of different problems due to the mining activities that exist in that area. And then you should explain that one is because of the salt extraction, the other because of the gas extraction and another because of possible other causes. So thank you for the Minister's willingness to do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u97	Yes. Yes. Then there are Mr Sienot's questions. I am really not aware of any signs that SodM would have insufficient capacity for enforcement. No way. Interestingly, I find his question about the pilot. Does that pilot lead to things that we learn from it and that we want to do elsewhere? I think so. The company then makes agreements with the residents about the prevention of securities, about monitoring, about intervention. All this must then be enshrined in the licence; that is my role as a whole. Once that is embedded in a permit, SodM can monitor it again. I think this is how we achieve different things. The first is that things are more transparent, that you see and also affect how a company deals with effects and how they are monitored. This transparency is already helping. Furthermore, it can, of course, simply in a physical sense, reduce the risks. It's a good thing that neighbors are talking to the company about that. I think that certainly deserves to be followed up. I even think that if we do that in the future, we can learn from it over and over again and perhaps refine those instruments slowly. I do not know whether there have been reports of damage to Heiligerlee, I say in the direction of Mrs Mulder. We have not heard of it and have not received any reports of it. I just wanted to check with both Nedmag and Tcbb, because that's where those claims could have ended up. I wanted to do that for the AO, so I'll let you know. Then I come to Mrs Yeşilgöz. When will there be clarity about alternatives to diesel? I've outlined that. The inventory is in the fourth quarter. If SodM can make something out of it on the basis of that inventory, it should be there by the end of the year. Then Mr Nijboer. I'll keep his more philosophical questions to the end. He says, what are actually... They are my words, but his concern was: do we offer sufficient guarantees to those individuals? I think that's in a multitude of things. Some of them still have to prove themselves, but we have a Chamber that controls the government. That window is one thing. First, you know where to go and secondly, you don't feel placed in a position to prove something to a professional company that can show you all the corners of the room with ten lawyers. More monitoring, more transparency, more research in all kinds of ways, both reducing risks and providing guarantees as well as materialising them. I hope to set in motion the national damage protocol before the summer, first of all for the extraction of gas from the small fields. There must also be a covenant in which the operators commit themselves in advance to the method and, of course, also pay the bill. Then we get salt and former coal mining in Limburg. We're also gonna get geothermal. All this must be added accordingly in order to reach similar agreements. The Mining Damage Committee requires an amendment to the Mining Act. I would like to consult them at the end of the year, but we really want the current temporary committee to be able to make use of this established national damage protocol in its advice on the extraction of gas from small fields. We still want to decorate that with the help of RVO. Mr Nijboer came up with questions at the beginning of his speech and at the end which, I think, are a bit of a match. Is it in order and what is going on that the more we know, the more it seems to come to light? My relativisation was already that our country is probably well off internationally in seismic terms and also in the field of careful extraction. But to be honest, I have to guess a little bit about the cause of the trend that seems to be there anyway. I don't think it's just because we're slowly becoming more risky. We will, but I don't know if that's the cause. It would also be a bit silly to take it off with that. I must honestly say that I do not know why we now seem to experience or suffer more from unrest in the soil than some time ago, while there seems to be more monitoring, more knowledge and more safeguards. I think it's a good question, but I'm gonna let you have this question for a while. I don't have the answer to that directly. Then I end up with....that's not so philosophical, but I had forgot him for a moment.. the low hum. That low hum sound has indeed been investigated. It has occurred in Gijpskerk. Low hum tones can come from pipes. It can also come from generators, for example, but mainly from pipes. It seems very likely that it has to do with pipes here. Any kind of pipe can cause a hum tone. That has been investigated, in a generic sense, and the cause has not been found. The next step is to talk to the people involved and see if more targeted research can be done, and that runs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u98	Mr Nijboer has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u99	I like the latter, because it is a really big problem for people and it is very difficult to find the cause of it. I still wonder where that "bubbling" is gonna lead. Is the Minister going to send a letter to the Chamber about this increase in health risks and incidents?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u100	That's a good question. Not every drink leads to a sensible thought. As the drink lasts longer, it becomes more incoherent. I don't know, but maybe I should force myself to come back to it in the AO of the 22nd. Then we can see if there is a coherent answer. But for now, I don't know the answer, so I wouldn't know what's in the letter either. I congratulate Mr Nijboer on the question, but I do not yet have an answer to it. Mr President, so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u101	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first-term response. I am happy to give the floor to Mrs Beckerman for her second term contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u102	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I only have one minute, so I'll start the motions right away. No new salt extraction in stacked mining: that is the subject of my first motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that salt extraction can also lead to earthquakes;]] [[noting that there is talk of risks related to the origin of sinkholes;]] [[Whereas both around Veendam and in the Wadden Sea there are stacked mining operations;]] [[Whereas the effects of stacked mining have not yet been identified;]] [[calls on the Government not to allow any new salt extraction where other mining activities are involved, to independent research has shown that it is safe,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman, Mr Wassenberg, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Nijboer and Mr Kops.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32849-182]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u103	I have exactly half a minute before my second motion on reverse evidence in stacked mining. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the arbitrator also applied reversal of the burden of proof in the case of gas extraction in Drenthe;]] [[noting that the Tcbb recommends that the principle of the reverse burden of proof concerning the handling of mining damage should apply to the whole of the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas salt extraction leads to a fall in the soil and the damage caused to their homes by local residents;]] [[calls on the government to apply the legal presumption of evidence also with stacked mining,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman, Mr Wassenberg, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Nijboer and Mr Kops.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32849-183]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u104	There was my time, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u105	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I, too, have two motions, so I'm gonna blow my brains out. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Minister of EZK states that salt extraction in the Netherlands must be safe, responsible and future-proof;]] [[calls on the government not to allow salt extraction if it is not safe, responsible and future-proof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Wadden region is characterised by a unique tidal dynamic;]] [[noting that these tidal dynamics are under pressure due to rising sea levels due to climate change and soil decline due to gas extraction;]] [[noting that the Wadden region is further under pressure due to disturbance and pollution, such as the serious pollution caused by the container disaster with the MSC Zoe;]] [[Considering that an additional reduction in the soil caused by salt extraction poses an unacceptable risk to the Wadden region;]] [[considers that the use of diesel oil under the Wadden Sea constitutes an unacceptable risk of additional pollution;]] [[calls on the Government to prevent salt extraction under the Wadden Sea,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wassenberg, Mr Beckerman, Mr Van der Lee and Mr Kops. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32849-184]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg, Mr Beckerman and Mr Van der Lee. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32849-185]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u107	In the first motion, Mr Wassenberg states that salt extraction is only possible if it is safe. That is the position of the cabinet, of the minister. That's the deal. That's how the SodM judges it, and that's what the Chamber just unanimously repeated. What else does Mr Wassenberg achieve by confirming already existing policies in a motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u108	What I'm doing with that is making it even more explicit. It's a slightly different formulation. At a time when it cannot be guaranteed to be safe, responsible and future-proof, you simply should not allow it. I have just said in an interrupting debate with Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius: if in doubt, do not catch up. That is actually what makes this motion more explicit. It is at the same time a motion that is very simple and therefore perhaps shines in its simplicity. I can also imagine the Minister saying: it is so beautiful; I take her over, list her and hang her. We will have to ask the Minister, but this is actually the explication of that statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u109	Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u110	Mr President, I think I have my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u111	Thank you very much. That is what Mr Wassenberg has done. I look at Mr Van der Lee for his contribution in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u112	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me read my motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are many economic activities in Groningen soil, including gas extraction, salt extraction and drinking water extraction;]] [[noting that the persistent drought also affects the state of the soil;]] [[Whereas all these matters should be considered in full in order to properly underpin decisions on mining licences;]] [[calls on the Government, before a decision is taken on Nedmag's 2018 extraction plan, to examine the cumulative effects of mining activities in the region,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Lee, Mr Beckerman and Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32849-186]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u113	Sometimes you have to share your doubts with people. This is such a motion. I think it's a very justified call. At the same time, my question is how this relates to a reliable government. How does it relate to the notion, which we have just heard again, that the SodM guarantees security and that we have agreed to do so? What exactly does this motion add in that context and what does it mean for the reliable government that we want to be, including to companies?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u114	Maybe two comments. As a government, I think we should be reliable. Nor do I think that all salt extraction activities in the Netherlands should be stopped. I think they should be safe and future-proof. When it comes to what we mean by security, we have now become accustomed to expressing that very much in seismic terms. That also makes sense, considering the quakes linked to the Slochterenveld. I'm talking about another risk. That has to do with our bottom descent and its speed. Those are not seismic activities in the sense of shock. In the Netherlands we see soil declines everywhere, partly under the influence of climate change, water levels and agricultural activities, which affect, for example, foundations of buildings. That's a different type of risk than an earthquake. I see that major changes are taking place there in quite a short time. I want us to map that element much more clearly, especially in the areas where everything is stacked: gas extraction, salt extraction, water extraction, the impact of drought and a extraction plan that is expected to fall by 95 centimetres because of salt extraction alone. I think that's a lot in one area. I want to assure you that we are also looking at this and not just at the seismic side, which I also think is very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u115	There is another interruption by Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u116	I was wondering if Mr Van der Lee agrees with me that the SodM is not just looking at seismicity but also at other issues. They have even produced a detailed report on this and made recommendations for it, all of which have been taken over by the Minister. I therefore think that Mr Van der Lee is a little short of the SodM by saying that there is one-sided consideration of the risk of quake. I do not think that is the case. I agree with what Mr Sienot says: we also have a different responsibility, of course. It is also about a reliable government and about jobs. I think we should look for the balance sheet and not put things on hold on the basis of suspicions. On the contrary, we must rely on the independent supervisors.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u117	I agree with you on that last point. I didn't say the SodM did or didn't do anything, but we mainly talk about the seismic risks, because we're dealing with the impact of the Slochterenveld. However, we are getting more and more information about other factors that cause soil decline in the Netherlands. I just want to guarantee that we are looking closely at that. I really trust that the SodM will do a good job of this, but I think it is very important that we in the Chamber state: take a good look at that risk too. Well, that's my call. I hope the Minister will find that a wise appeal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u118	Did you have any other input? You have some time left.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u119	No, I was able to complete my input in response to the interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u120	All right. Thank you. I'll take a look around. Mr Kops has waived his contribution. Mr. Sienot, may I invite you to your second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u121	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't have any motions, but I do have some questions. First of all, I am very pleased that the Minister agrees with us that this pilot in Friesland deserves to be followed. My compliments on that. That sounds very promising. I have one comment to make. The pilot also includes thinking about setting up a fund. My question was when such a fund would be robust enough. The whole point with risks is that you never know how big the risk is until it hits you. So there's just got to be a big pot, so that people don't have to worry about it at least. Another question has to do with the drought. I've been talking about that for a while. Drought has a strengthening effect on, for example, the absorption by salt extraction. Is that also looked at by the SodM, especially now that we see that drought is more common? Will that strengthening effect be taken into account? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u122	Thank you. I call Mrs Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u123	Mr President, thank you. The Minister has made a number of commitments. He comes back to the question of whether any claims have been made with Nouryon and how they are dealt with. Furthermore, before the next debate, the Minister will inform us whether there are sufficient accelerometers. It's a good thing that check takes place. I had another question about old pipes. Can they leak, just like in Twente? The Minister said that there were hardly any leakages, but perhaps he could go into this a little more extensively, because I would like to know exactly what is going on. In Twente the SodM has done quite a bit against it. I think that was right. The last question is about the pilot in Harlingen. Will the agreements that come out of this be taken over by the salt companies for their own damage protocol? There's a pilot in Harlingen right now, and I understand there's going to be a self-destruct protocol for salt companies. Do these companies take on board the positive points raised in the pilot? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u124	Thank you. I look at Mr Nijboer and give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Minister will return to the more philosophical discussion we had. I think that's right. I was pleased that the Minister's answer indicated what the problem was: that there could be a hundred lawyers and companies refer to each other, so that people are completely ground up. That is what the one-stop-shop motion was aimed at, and that is what the Minister is now implementing. That's okay. That can't be arranged in two months. I can understand that. But I hope that the Minister's awareness will lead to the fact that after the summer those people will have some perspective on how it really will be resolved, because they have been concerned with it for years. That's what we're here for. Finally, Mr President. There's an investigation into the low-frequency noise. We'll wait and see. Those people, too, are often other people, for many years now. It's not a discussion that's just new. But we'll wait and see. We're facing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u126	Thank you. I shall suspend the sitting until 5.50 p.m. so that the Minister can prepare himself for the reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u127	The next item is the second term of the 30-member debate on the problems of salt extraction in Groningen, the Minister's response. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u128	Mr. Chairman. With her motion in part No. 182, about no new salt extraction in stacked mining, Mrs Beckerman is in SodM's shoes. I'm gonna have to advise against that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u129	The motion in part No. 182 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u130	At the motion in part No. 183 I think we see the same problem. But I'm going to outline another solution. The handling of damage in all mining activities is undertaken nationally by independent experts under public control. This ensures that those who have damage do not have to prove it themselves and be cared for. That's my way of solving this problem I'm facing. This motion, and the solution along the road mentioned in it, I must advise against.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u131	At the motion in part No. 182 says the Minister: I follow the judgment of SodM. That's very nice. But the Minister doesn't do that at all. For example at Surhuisterveen, the SodM has advised a certain amount of gas extraction, but the Minister ignores this. SodM is not at all as sacred as the minister here pretends. Wouldn't the Minister like to consult? SodM has already said that Nedmag cannot drill new wells. Would the Minister then consult with SodM to discuss whether they would consider this a sensible idea?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u132	I think there has been correspondence on some of these cases. The Nedmag extraction plan and the permits are now assessed by SodM. I see no reason to think now that I'm going to deviate from that advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u133	I think the Minister has given an appreciation. We're not going to do the debate again. Mrs. Beckerman, let's try it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u134	In the state of the salt sector, SodM has made it very clear that safety is far from always paramount in the salt sector and that it would like to do additional research, because we do not know at all what is going on with the stacked mining industry. That's what my motion is for. Would the Minister like to consult with SodM on the research it wants to do and discuss whether it would not make sense, pending the results, not to allow a new mining activity in the interests of safety?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u135	Now Mrs. Beckerman is going to do the work of SodM. SodM has an insight into what further research would be desirable in order to better identify the risks. And SodM eventually determines, if it took everything, whether something is justified or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u136	The motions on the documents Nos. 182 and 183 are both discouraged.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u137	I didn't recommend it. Then comes the Wassenberg c.s. motion. in piece No. 184 and that's a special moment. We are celebrating the moment when the Animal Party agrees with the government. Let's mark that. I also hear things like "hundred percent guaranteed" and "do not catch up in doubt," so I'm gonna say it one more time. By the way, I believe that life is never riskless, I say in the direction of the Party for Animals. But I'm prepared to take this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u138	I'll take a look at the other members. I see they're okay with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u139	Then the Wassenberg motion c.s. in piece No. 185, over the Wadden Sea Area. I have actually already given the answer to that in the debate. This motion I must advise against.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u140	The motion in part No. 185 has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u141	The motion-Van der Lee c.s. in piece No. 186 "Asks the government, before a decision is taken on Nedmag's 2018 extraction plan, to examine the cumulative effects...". This is, in itself, a case of linguistic soil decline, but, taking that into account, let me leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u142	The motion in part No. 186 gets judgment, Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u143	Mr Sienot is talking about a fund. If we're gonna get the national damage settlement in order, we're gonna have to take a look at where a fund is needed. In some cases you would like to do that nationally; in others perhaps not. You'll have to judge it when it's sufficiently robust. I actually want to take that into account in my appreciation of the Tcbb advice. Mr Sienot also asked if SodM also looked at drought. SodM is expected to look at the cumulative effects. In his assessment but also in the measurements, all forms of soil decline are of course taken into account. Mrs. Mulder is asking if old pipes can leak. We have seen that, and it must also be part of the supervision. As far as Nouryon is concerned, SodM naturally supervises it. I understand that in the case of Nedmag, it's upstate. So there is a supervisor who has to take care of that. In some cases, such a supervisor also requires a monitoring system specifically designed for this purpose. This is one of the risks that we have also identified in the debate, which we need to monitor. Mrs Mulder also asks if the pilot Harlingen also gives inspiration for the establishment of the window. I'm not sure. The pilot Harlingen is mainly about the front and the consultation. And the counter is obviously about the back. But if there are any lessons, we'll definitely use them. Mr Nijboer asks when there is a perspective at that window. He understands that it takes some time, but can we do things before? That's what I hear him asking implicitly. I think that's a good question. I do not know the answer to many of his questions today, but I must say that I am going to know the answer in the appreciation of the Tcbb opinion. Then I will take a moment to consider whether it is possible to offer some kind of vehicle earlier, so that people can go somewhere even if we are still busy in our legislative processes. Mr President, so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u144	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the discussions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-10-tweedekamer-9.u145	Voting on the motions tabled will take place next Tuesday. I thank the Minister for his presence and his reply.
