ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-5.u1	Then we go to the last question, Mrs Karabulut's question to the Minister of Defence about veterans' health complaints in Afghanistan following waste incineration.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-5.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Before we send soldiers to distant places such as Afghanistan, Iraq or Syria, politics decides to participate in a war, yes or no. That's a tough decision. Whether you agree or not, when that is decided, we must ensure that the military are safe, that they have good material and that their health and safety are protected. The Minister of Defence is responsible for the safety and health of military personnel. But over and over and over again, actually all year in, year out, month in, month out, week in, week out, we are faced with sick veterans, sexual harassment and serious health complaints, which may or may not be related to those unhealthy, unsafe working conditions, but which are simply not or are not picked up seriously by the Defense Department. The daily newspaper of the North describes this as a sick culture. Mr. Chairman. There have been veterans in Afghanistan. They got sick because waste was burned in big pits, burn pits. They have cancer, serious complaints. These people have come forward, year in, year out, but haven't been heard. And what is my surprise? That the minister immediately shows that sick reflex, that she says, "I don't know anything." Then, a week later when the military show out of their file "here Minister, this is my registration form, I have reported it," she says: yes, but that was not an official report. It's like a word game. I would like to ask the Minister what she has to say today to these veterans, these soldiers. I would like to ask the Minister how it could have been ignored in that year from these signals. And I would like to ask the Minister whether she can rule out the fact that burning pits are still working in mission areas at the moment. Mr. Chairman. You've noticed. There are still many questions, but for now this is part one of my question: what does the Minister have to say to these veterans today?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-5.u3	The Minister of Defense has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-5.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I fully agree with Mrs Karabulut that it is difficult to send our military to mission areas and that we must do everything in our power to ensure that they work as safely and healthily as possible. As an employer, I think that's also my expensive duty. That is what I said a week and a half ago at the start of the Council of Ministers. When people are sick, of course, it's very bad. No matter where it comes from, I would say in the direction of Mrs Karabulut. The fate of our people, whether they are active in the service or a veteran, is what I care about as an employer or we always care about. So we recommend that anyone who gets or is sick should go to the doctor. That's a good deal for the DOD. Any active military officer can contact a military doctor. If someone suspects that there are health problems related to work, even if it is in the past, this must be reported during the consultation. Veterans who no longer work with us can also use the Veterans' Office to make notifications. What I said was that the reports were not known to me. That's absolutely true. But at the same time, I have called on all our people, whether they were still employed or not, to report through the normal process I just outlined. In addition, I have also said that we will set up a hotline where ex-workers or workers who think they have become ill by working with the Defense Department can report. This is not just about burn pits, however, but about Mrs Karabulut's point. If there is a reason for these reports, I will, of course, have independent research carried out in the broader sense, including the health complaints that exist. Finally, the point made by Mrs Karabulut about the registration form. This is how it works. At the same time, some executives and commanders have had their entire unit, as a precautionary measure, fill out the registration form, precisely from the care of their staff. The registration form is a means for workers to prove that they were in contact with a particular substance or suspect that it was. But the registration form is indeed not a word game; I do not attach to it the same thing as reporting a health complaint. So I call on everyone to report it, because we can't just look into medical records. That's why we set up that hotline. Through you, Mr President, I would like to call on everyone, even if they have been in contact with something and think they have health problems, to report it to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-5.u5	Already listening, I wonder: what should those veterans who have reported for years that they are ill and that they have a strong suspicion that this has to do with the release of those toxic gases and have not been heard over and over again, think now? "A word game" is still very friendly. They feel unsafe! Mr. Chairman. This isn't new. In 2010, the SP already asked questions about this. At that time we were informed: only occasionally there were increased levels of harmful substances. And: a long-term or lasting health damage is not likely due to this. Then the place would be investigated and monitored. It didn't happen. The Minister then says: I did not know, those reports are not known. Here I have another document, from the Pension Fund Foundation ABP. "A written report shows that you have been in contact with toxic substances and gases from a burning pit during broadcasts in Afghanistan at Kamp Holland. It is clear that you have been exposed to toxic substances and gases during military service." Does the Minister recognize that something has gone very wrong here? Does it recognise that it is apparently not well informed and/or not well informed? Can she say today that she is talking to this group of people who have joined forces and with the counsellor, who supports them and is also an ex-Defension officer herself, and that she is at least prepared to reimburse all costs for medical examinations and legal courses? Mr President, I can tell you that the last word has not yet been said and that we will have a debate on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-5.u6	Indeed, registrations were known, but these are two different things. A registration, as I have briefly tried to indicate to you, is nothing more than a preventive action. Eventually, no action is requested from the Defense Department. Then you know that one may have been in contact with a substance. But we don't know if that's what caused health problems, and that's what needs to be reported. We have that hotline for that, too. We have now set up an additional hotline. I have outlined to you the normal process of an additional hotline. I am also very sorry that this confusion of understanding is there. I've verified in the meantime how many reports have been officially made to us. That's four. Of course I am willing to talk to the lawyer who supports the people, just to know how many reports he has in the official sense when it comes to health complaints. The same applies to the people who are involved. After that, of course, we will look further at what we should do. We need to know if there's a report. Then we look at the relationship that could be possible and at independent research.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-5.u7	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-5.u8	No, Mrs. Karabulut, you can't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-5.u9	I can't ask a supplementary question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-5.u10	No, because you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-5.u11	I understand that, but I wanted to ask another supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-5.u12	Let's see if the SP still... Of course, you still have one question to ask on behalf of the SP, but from behind the interrupting microphone. I'll see you back there. Mr Öztürk on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-5.u13	I notice there's some sort of cover-up culture in the defense, a cover-up culture. It's about human lives, it's about our soldiers, it's about our own people. What exactly are you going to do to stop this game of words and break away from the culture of cover-up and cover-up?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-5.u14	I have already indicated this in response to Mrs Karabulut. There's a hotline where people can report their health complaints. That's what this is about. Recording that you may have been in contact with a toxic substance doesn't mean someone has a health complaint. That hotline's here. We're gonna take a serious look at it. If necessary, we will have independent research conducted into whether there is a relationship between burn pits and the health complaints that exist. I will, we will get in touch with the lawyer and also with the people involved. That's what we're gonna do. There is no question, I say to Mr Öztürk, of a culture of masking. But you've got to know what the reports are, and we've been digging into them for the past week. At the moment there are four reports known to us. Over the head of Mr Öztürk, I call on anyone who thinks he has a health complaint, a medical complaint caused by a substance, to report to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-5.u15	Second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-5.u16	The Minister's talking about a hotline. At some point there is a report and then you have to deal with a culture of denial, so we don't know anything about it. These soldiers feel all alone. There is a hotline, there are procedures, you can sign up somewhere and you can tell your story, but eventually even the minister in the media denies that there has been such a thing. Mrs Karabulut has rightly shown the questions from 2010. It is therefore about breaking this culture, Minister; it is not about hotlines and procedures. What are you going to do to break this culture within the Defense Department? That's what I'm asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-5.u17	A brief response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-5.u18	I am far from denying that. I said I don't know, but I'm gonna find out. That's what I said, and that's what I did. That's what happened. Of course it's about that. Nothing can be muffled away; everything must come on the table. If there are health complaints, it is important for an employer to know that properly. I've reported what I'm gonna do about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-5.u19	D66 was also a bit surprised about this coverage, but perhaps even more about the reaction that people have not reported. It will then be a technical discussion about whether anyone has ever reported to their boss or to P&D: I don't feel well or can get sick. As far as D66 is concerned, that's just one. I think we should stay away from something like "if you didn't send the right e-mail, they don't count." The second thing I want to say is that the Minister clearly states that you can only report if you have health problems. But people who have done their work there with a great deal of respect and are not sick at the time, and who may have read this in the newspaper now, are worried.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-5.u20	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-5.u21	I think it's important for the Minister to show active employership. As far as D66 is concerned, all those people who have been there receive a letter containing the following questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-5.u22	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-5.u23	Have you been there? Did it make you sick?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-5.u24	The Minister. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-5.u25	Then a letter and a plan must come to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-5.u26	Mrs. Belhaj!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-5.u27	Otherwise, I fear that we are going to have a plenary debate for years, as we are doing on other dossiers...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-5.u28	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-5.u29	At the moment, we are doing everything we can to get an idea of the seriousness of the situation, looking at the health problems involved. That's our job as a good employer. I'd be happy to think about the idea Mrs Belhaj is putting forward. Let there be no misunderstanding about that. It is important that we get a good idea of whether that relationship is there and how many people it concerns. It is important to check independently whether those complaints are there, because we have taken measurements, but we do not yet know what relationship we are dealing with. We are therefore also looking at the United States and Canada. That's what's being watched. I will, of course, inform the Chamber. I am quite prepared to send the Chamber an even more comprehensive letter on what we are doing, because that is not what Question Time is really so suitable for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-5.u30	It is important that the information that has been built up in recent years really comes out. That information is there. There were burn pits in Deh Rawoh. There were burn pits in Tarin Kowt. There were burn pits in Kandahar. There were not only Dutch soldiers, but also British, Americans and Australians. If it's okay, they've all taken measurements. So my question to the Minister is: will she ask Great Britain, Australia and America what measurements they made during the period of our start of the mission in Deh Rawoh, Tarin Kowt and Kandahar and what evidence, evidence and so on can be derived from it? And would she like to inform the Chamber about this in the short term?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-5.u31	The answer to that is yes. We have also measured this, and it is important to take it in addition to others' measurements and to learn from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-5.u32	And within what time limit are you going to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-5.u33	I do not know exactly how quickly we get that information, but I told Mrs Belhaj that I would write a more comprehensive letter on what we intend to do anyway, and I will include that deadline in it. In that letter, I will also deal with the collection of that information and with the period when we can send that information to the Chamber. That letter will reach the Chamber soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-5.u34	This story reminds me in all kinds of ways of the chromium-6 affair. For a very long time, they were under the impression that people of Defense had to work with life-threatening stuff that they could die on, and then they were denied for a long time to do so. Some cases and files went missing. In the end, there was an arrangement that was perceived as a second blow to the face by the victims. Can the Minister promise that things will be really different this time? And how does she feel about the suggestion I'm making right now to ask the Veteran Ombudsman to look at the handling of the complaints? 'Cause the DOD just showed a little too often that she can't do that herself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-5.u35	The first is that we need to get the complaints out. That is the first thing I am committed to. Then, of course, we will also have to act on the complaints that are there. I cannot say at the moment who we are involved in, because at the moment I know what reports there are, namely those four. I'll let you know what we're doing and how we pick it up. We really need to look internationally at the relationship between these health complaints and the burn pits; I have just replied to Mrs Bruins Slot. So I can't tell you how it's going to be settled right now, but I want to take care of you as much as possible so that you know what's going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-5.u36	It is not quite clear to me what exactly has happened in the case of the defence sector on this issue. So there's a staff registration form, and commanders ask their people to fill it out preventively if they've been in contact with dangerous substances. But the minister says that's something other than reporting health complaints.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-5.u37	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-5.u38	Why do people have to fill out a form before they have been in contact with harmful substances? And what does the Minister do when she reads on that form "yes, I've been in contact with those harmful substances"? I assume you'll act then. Isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-5.u39	The system does indeed work in such a way that commanders ask their people to do so. Indeed, there are commanders who have even indicated this preventively for the whole group, when we do not even know if that relationship was there. The registration of such a notification is not much more than a preventive administrative act, which normally requires no action. That's also the complexity. An official report does require action from the Defense Department. That is why I find it so annoying that this has arisen. So from the moment I found out, I've called everyone to report to us officially. That's why we've got four reports. For privacy reasons, we are not entitled to simply look into all medical or personal files; you will understand that. That is why I also intend to get in touch with the lawyer of some of those people, and I do not know how many people we are talking about there, and with the people I know by name, to find out how we can take action on them. I also hope that anyone who does have health complaints will come forward...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-5.u40	That's what you said. Three times, in fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-5.u41	... whether they're working with us or in the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-5.u42	I understood that those burn pits would be a temporary solution and would then be replaced by incineration plants, and that on that basis the monitoring would have been carried out and the information collected. Can the Minister tell me whether this monitoring has been permanent, on what basis it has been carried out and what exactly they have monitored during the period when there was no replacement for those burn pits?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-5.u43	We have always measured air quality; that is what has happened all the time. That is also the point made by Mrs Bruins Slot. All countries have done so. I don't know exactly how that was monitored. I will take that with me in the letter I am writing, so that you know it too, and we can also see how that relates to the international side that has been asked for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-5.u44	Finally, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-5.u45	Finally. The Minister constantly talks about 'the system', where it would be up to the military that there is no official registration, but I would like to conclude here that the system is not working properly and is not working properly. Is the Minister prepared not only to talk to the counsellor, but with this whole group of people, the Minister did not know how many reports it was; there are 350, of which 80 are seriously ill, to compensate for the medical and legal costs they have to face, and to have everyone who has been there and had to deal with those burn pits and potentially harmful substances investigated? I had already asked that question in my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-5.u46	I do not agree with the first part of Mrs Karabulut's quote. It's always about people, me and the DOD. For us as an employer, it's always about our own people working there. As an employer, we have a duty to take good care of them. I am convinced that our medical care and aftercare system is one of the best in the world. I have said that I am prepared to talk to the people, including Mr Van de Nadort. Then I'll inform you about what's happening. I won't do that in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-tweedekamer-5.u47	Thank you. That brings us to the end of this Question Time. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments and then we shall vote.
