ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u1	The next item is the 30-member debate on persons excluded from disability insurance. Mrs Van Brenk has requested this debate, so she has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The number of working poor has almost doubled since 1990. Many of them are forced to bezzp'er, without collective bargaining power, disability insurance and pension building, and with a low wage. As a result, they remain the attractive, cheap alternative for employers. This morning, it became clear in the newspapers that, despite economic prosperity, the percentage ofzzp'ers in poverty has risen from 8.1% to 8.5%. With more than a millionzzp'ers you talk about a very large group of people in the Netherlands. According to the FD, one in four singlezzp'ers is below the poverty line. This has to be dealt with, doesn't it? 50PLUS therefore once again asks the Minister: move quickly on to the comprehensive package of measures forzzp'ers, otherwise the Labour Market Act will not be in balance at all and the number of forcedzzp'ers will only increase further. Also look for possibilities for self-employed to organise counterpower. In this context, I would like to draw attention to very sensible considerations of Professor of Labour Law Klara Boonstra. Mr Van Weyenberg was right to raise this issue with the Labour Market Act in balance. What can we expect from this minister in this area? Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, with regard to the important disability insurance forzzp's, the Minister has so far done little more than engage in discussions with insurers to promote choice behaviour and the degree of insurance. It is therefore mainly about information on what is now possible. That's useful, but certainly not enough. The Minister says that, and we are very sorry to be unable to give a ruling on a possible compulsory collective disability insurance scheme forzzp's, because it is part of the task of the Committee on the Regulation of Work. In our view, this commitment is far too low. For example, the Minister also has very little to offer to older self-employed persons when it comes to the ultimate acceptance age and end age of disability insurance and the additional AOW-hole that may arise from this insurability for incapacity for work. After your 60th, you can't be insured and you're too much of a risk. This is accepted by a minister who wants everyone to work forever. That has to be solved, doesn't it? And that can't wait for that committee to finally finish its work? According to 50PLUS, in addition to the above mentioned points, it is really necessary for all workers in the Netherlands to be collectively insured for incapacity for work and to be able to build up a pension. Because it strengthens social solidarity for the social system. This can also, at least in part, put an end to competition on working conditions between the self-employed and employees. I'd like a reflection from the Minister on this. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u3	Thank you. Mr Smeulders van GroenLinks has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We're talking about zzp'ers again today, I'd almost say, because actually we talk about zzp'ers quite often. The cabinet is only doing so little for it, while the group of self-employed is growing and growing. In the last ten years, this group has even doubled. That number is likely to continue to grow in the coming years. This also increases the collective risk. It is a ticking time bomb, according to Harry van de Kraats of AWVN. This also makes it increasingly logical to regulate collective provisions for this group. I would like to ask the Minister if he sees the development as well. Because an increasingly large group ofzzp'ers especially suffers the disadvantages of thezzp-ship. They earn so little that they can't properly insure themselves and not build up a pension, or work in disguised employment. Today it was again in all newspapers thatzzp'ers of all working Dutch people from a distance run the greatest risk of poverty. I am very curious about the reaction of the cabinet to this new report by the CBS. I call on the cabinet to take action. Quickly come up with measures to prevent bogus self-employment and now arrange for allzzp'ers to be automatically insured against incapacity for work! Because, Mr President, that problem is enormous. That is clear from the facts. 80% of the employees are currently not insured against incapacity for work. If we assume that 3.5% of those people will ever become disabled, we are talking about 50,000 people who are really going to get into trouble. It is our common responsibility as a politician to do something about it. I therefore tabled a motion together with the PvdA and the SP to allow all self-employed persons to receive disability insurance. Unfortunately, that motion was dissuaded by the cabinet and voted away by the coalition. We really regret that. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, this minister argues too much from the well-earned, mouthy zzp'er. That's also the group ofzzp'ers that generally shows themselves most and best. That is the 3% of thezzp'ers represented by ZZP Nederland. That is also the group that you might be able to get with a little information to assure yourself. But in construction, for example, this is not an option, because people are simply not insured there. In January, Self-employed Construction was tired of the waiting attitude of the politicians and insurers and introduced a collective disability insurance scheme for allzzp'ers. That's a very nice step. That is why I call on the Cabinet to embrace this initiative and to help Self-employed Building to make it a success.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u5	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Gijs van Dijk of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u6	Mr. Chairman. You were just down that street on your bike and you didn't see that car. That can happen to you. You're perfectly healthy and once the doctor gives you the bad rash that you'll be ill for a long time. That can happen to you. That happens in human lives. Fortunately, we have built up a good social system for this in the Netherlands. The moment you're unlucky, so once you fall off a jetty out of your own debt or you get sick once, we catch you with a good social system. We're insured against this kind of bad luck in people's lives. Mr. Chairman. We all know that an increasingly large group of independent entrepreneurs can experience this bad luck in life, so they can sit on that bike and get sick, but they are not insured. This creates personal dramas. As the AWVN foreman said, that's a ticking time bomb. This doesn't fit in with the Netherlands. It does not fit in with how we have built our social system. It doesn't fit for people to be excluded from that beautiful system that makes sure we catch you together if you're unlucky. That is why it is essential that we do something about this fundamentally. Then we look at this minister and the cabinet. Because this conversation has been going on in this room for a long time. Awareness within this Chamber is growing and also among employers in various sectors and even in self-employed organisations. They indicate that this problem is getting bigger and bigger. 'Cause you can't pay that bounty in construction. The moment you get older than 60, the insurance company kicks you out of insurance while you've been paying a decent premium for years. The moment you have a history of illness, the insurer just doesn't accept you. As an independent entrepreneur, you simply have no choice. Then you have to take that risk yourself. Mr. Chairman. Where the hell is this minister? Where are these fundamental measures? As far as the Labour Party is concerned, we must ensure that there is a collective insurance scheme for independent entrepreneurs, because the risk of bad luck cannot be overlooked. This is precisely why collective care is so badly needed. Mr. Chairman. I read in the letter that Minister Koolmees is talking to the insurers. His predecessor did that: endlessly in conversation with those insurers. But is there any room coming from that side now? The insurers send the minister back to the Chamber every time. Then he says, "I spoke well to them, but I didn't get a chance to meet." Earlier, during the Social Affairs budget, we adopted a motion requesting that we examine how to prevent discrimination at an age. What's going on with that? Where is the strength in the coalition agreement, the strength I hear from the minister? When will this action be transformed into plans, so that we can fundamentally realize the protection of people who work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u7	Thank you. I call Mr Van Kent of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have already mentioned Piet, the painter who had properly insured himself as a self-employed person, but in whom the insurance stopped paying out when he reached the age of 65, because the government had adapted the rules of the game in the meantime. As a result, he was not entitled to AOW until 67. The Minister had promised to look into this and examine whether solutions could be found. How's that going? Then Piet is one of those millionzzp'ers who, as he himself said, did have very expensive insurance. If you see fivezzp'ers in front of you, there are four not insured. So these are more than 800,000 Dutch people who are at an irresponsible risk. How big a risk is that? With an annual salary of €50,000 and a period of twenty years in which you don't have an income due to disability, you'll soon be talking about €1 million. And of those 800,000zzp'ers, I think there are very few millionaires who can bear that risk themselves. That's why social security was once conceived, to share risks, to insure risks. It's just that social security that's missing thezzp'ers. This cabinet indicates that it is going to talk to insurers, that, as I mentioned earlier, it is going to talk to insurers. Mr Gijs van Dijk was right to point out that the minister's predecessor did the same. His predecessor too and his predecessor again. But insurers in the Netherlands will never decide to give that 64-year-old painter a decent disability insurance for an affordable premium, because the risk is simply too high. So you can chat with the insurers until you weigh us, I will tell the minister through you, Mr President, but the solution is not going to come. The only solution is collective insurance. That, I believe, is the lesson of the last ten or fifteen years. In doing so, the good and the bad risks, as it is called insurance, are those who are young and healthy and those who are older and who are at a somewhat higher risk, must together make a premium and ensure against the risk that no one can bear on their own. Together with the PvdA and GroenLinks, we have put forward proposals for this during the budget debate. The coalition parties voted it out. But I don't think we should be naive. I do not think that the three coalition parties present here should be naive either. They should not think that this minister is going to talk to insurers about offering a policy at a reduced rate, so that it is indeed possible for that 64-year-old painter to insure himself against incapacity for work. I think the time of naivety is behind us after all these years. We need to look at solutions together. We need to look at a collective system in which we contribute in an equal way and can bear that huge financial risk with each other. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u9	Thank you. I call Mr Wiersma of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u10	Mr President, thank you. More and more people are opting for self-employment. We're very proud of that. Well, that's a good thing to say. Partly because of them, the Netherlands is also a real entrepreneurial country, from carpenter to teacher, photographer and electro mechanic. Entrepreneurs who take opportunities and risks for their own risk and account, with all the consequences, but also with all the freedoms associated with them. But they also have a responsibility to keep their own pants up if things are not going well economically or if they get sick. That is why tax advantages are right to do so. But it's gonna happen to you. Suppose you're that entrepreneur and you're standing on that dock, and it happens to you: you fall off and you didn't get it right, because you were 60 years old and it wasn't possible. Then something really goes wrong, because the choice is up to thezzp'er, but the possibility and accessibility must be there. That is what this debate is about. Of course, this debate is also about the whole landscape ofzzp, but there are still a lot of debates about that. On the contrary, I welcome the fact that we are discussing specifically the insurance options forzzp'ers today. Because it's a choice of your own, but you do want to have that opportunity. You have to be able to take that responsibility. In practice this sometimes goes wrong andzzp'ers are unnecessarily insecure. Mr. Chairman. I'm just saying honestly to the Minister that something surprises me. There are three quite fundamental commitments on the table, but we haven't heard from them yet. Mr Van Kent has just rightly mentioned that attention has been paid to 'burning houses' in the budget. I also got some of those e-mails from people who thought they would have to work for up to 65 years and become disabled in their lives. But, yeah, that policy stops at 65 years and now they just have a hole with big financial consequences. How are we doing with that, I'll ask the Minister. We're gonna take that with urgency, aren't we? I had hoped that we would see something of that in this debate, but we do not see it and I regret that. The same applies to the conversation with insurers. The minister says he's talking to them. There will also be a program Promote choice behavior. It would have been so nice if we could have discussed that here. When's that gonna happen? And what about the conversations with the insurance companies? That is what Mr Gijs van Dijk referred to and we discussed it in the budget. When are we gonna see any of that? Mr. Chairman. The advantage is that I can give you a few things, because the Minister can add them. More generally, I wonder if he could tell us in his image whether we also have recent figures of how often thosezzp'ers are refused. And in which jobs and sectors is this most important? Do we have actual figures of that? And is it also true that insurers are not always allowed to keep track of that? And how can we better get a grip on that, so that we can also see what the progress of the actions we are taking in the near future is? Finally, Mr President. There are also other ways to share risks together. The Minister also points that out. The Self-employed Building was already coming along, with Mr Smeulders pointing that out. But bread funds are also mentioned. How is he going to take it with him in the further development? Could he also comment on the public provision and how it is being used at the moment? Can we make it even more accessible, for example by extending the thirteen-week period? Could you also offer more active support from the KvK? What are the possibilities of making better use of this public provision? The same is true of safety net provision, because there is a safety net provision. So how do we get what we have to be better exploited by thosezzp'ers? And when is the Chamber finally gonna hear about that? Because, finally, patience is running out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u11	A while ago, I heard the Association of Insurance Companies, the association with which all or at least most insurers of the Netherlands are affiliated, say on Radio 1: we simply don't insure people 60 years of age with a physical profession. How does Mr Wiersma and the VVD think this minister is able to resolve this in conversation with insurers?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u12	I think we are asking the Minister the same question. We want to improve and increase the level of insurance, and we want to improve accessibility. We see that insurers have demands. They make risk assessments, too. But that doesn't mean that if you choose as a zzp'er to take on your own risk and account, but you do want to assure yourself that if something goes wrong, then it's well arranged and that's not possible, I don't think it's fundamentally wrong. I think so, and I see that we have also expressed ambitions for this in the coalition agreement. I see that we are a year and a half away, and I ask the Minister: what are these ambitions actually like? Where do they lead? And I hope he can tell me a little bit more about that in a moment than we've both seen so far. So we're looking for the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u13	Yeah, I bet you do. I believe that we both have concerns about this development and that we are both impatient when it comes to the actions that this minister is taking. But my question was a little more substantive. Insurers make an assessment of how much risk they run financially and can say on that basis: 60-plus and a physical profession, so we're not going to insure you anyway. That's not gonna work out with a chat. If you don't insure young and old together in a collective, you just get a group that falls out of the boat. So my substantive question to you is: how can you solve this problem, how does the VVD Group see it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u14	I'm saying it's not quite black and white either, that there are facilities. I mentioned the safety net provision, which insurers should also offer. They have to accept someone. I wonder how this provision will be used. I asked about the public supply at the UWV. You now have 13 weeks after leaving your job to step in. I said, "Can't that be bigger?" That is a concrete question to consider about raising the level of insurance and making that facility more accessible. So, yes, you're right. I am looking for alternatives that will at least ensure that people who want to insure themselves can do so. Now it's sometimes the case that they can't go anywhere. I am curious to see the extent of that problem. So I'd like to hear that from the Minister. And I hope we can make the facilities that are there even better. I am thinking, for example, of the public provision. That is what my specific question, which you have just heard, was about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u15	Mr Van Dijk, or Mr Van Kent? Actually, we're doing interruptions in half.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u16	Oh, I didn't know that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u17	Well, you're walking around here, I think, long enough to know the basic rules of this house. Is it a repeat?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u18	It's a new question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u19	Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u20	It follows the question I have just asked, of course. This is not so much our big friends' club; more yours, I think, calls for compulsory collective insurance forzzp'ers. Do you see that as a solution direction or are you radically rejecting it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u21	I think all employers are doing their best and creating jobs for both of us. If they have good ideas for improving the labour market, that is entirely the case, I would say. There are a lot of good ideas at AWVN. Only, I'm making a distinction. I findzzp'ers entrepreneurs. I see that now not everyzzp'er is an entrepreneur. That's why the cabinet is taking a whole step. With the Labour Market Act in balance, we are tackling the risk of employers being out of place, and you have also won battle after battle. There are a lot of good aspects of this law, and that is what you also think, and that is what we are doing to ensure that a permanent job becomes attractive, and that people, if they want to, can not be put into thatzzp construction, but simply choose that permanent job. That's where I want to go. But that also means that you give those realzzp'ers the space to choose how they want to implement their entrepreneurship. I do give them that choice and you may not; that is the difference between the VVD and the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u22	There are actually two debates going on: whether we want collective insurance for all independent entrepreneurs at all and the question, for the short term, what we can do for people of a certain age or background. I find it interesting that Mr Wiersma of the VVD states that he is willing to look at the thirteen weeks and the safety net insurance. If I'm right, that insurance is only there for the startingzzp'er now. Does Mr Wiersma see an extension to a larger group, so that it is possible to have more people insured by these two routes?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u23	My search concerns the question of how to make better use of existing insurance, specifically public provision: how can you bring it to the attention of the public? How many people are in insurance now? I think that's 5%. There's just a lot of rack in there. That's right. You'll have to do that in so many weeks after you leave your job. I wonder what possibilities there are for harnessing that provision in such a way that it is available to more people. I asked about those 13 weeks. I don't know what the solution is. All I'm saying is that we need to look at all the existing instruments, and we should not let it happen that people who want to insure themselves cannot be assured.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u24	I specifically ask about the group of 60-year-olds in construction, for example, who are no longer able to guarantee themselves. We've asked the Minister to investigate that. What if the insurance companies really don't want to? In the end, we cannot force them from our role here; perhaps legally, but that is actually the second debate, for the longer term. If insurers really don't want to, we could offer something through the UWV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u25	I'm looking. That is why I asked about the safety net provision, which insurers also offer and which is subject to an acceptance obligation. So I'm curious. I think it is often more important that people do not know what the possibilities are than that there are no possibilities. But as far as they're not there, we need to broaden them, make them more possible, make them more visible. I also think that is why I am asking for that campaign that the Minister is doing with the insurance companies, that we must hurry to do so. And for example, if the KvK could play a role in that because if you sign up as an entrepreneur, you will be reminded of it not only once but repeatedly that you could also insure yourself; have you thought about that, these are the possibilities. I think we're still a long way from what we could do. So that's also my appeal to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u26	I'm just looking into where I might come out with the VVD because I think we both have an interest in ensuring that people take out accident insurance. You are looking for if you say: I see people who can't afford it and there is also a group, which are really entrepreneurs, who deserve enough and who decide what they do. Would it also be acceptable for the VVD to see if we can get to a border: if someone calculates this rate at hourly rates, then he cannot insure himself and then such a person would be assured via a collective? Is that a passable road we could explore?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u27	I love it when collectives share risks with each other. I just don't like it when we force thatzzp'er to do so. That is why I am asking about the bread funds. Those are the collectives where people share risks with each other. Even if they don't come out elsewhere, they'll find each other. That is what I would like to ask the Minister that we should examine it even better and perhaps broaden it, where there are perhaps very good examples in some sectors. What's the Minister's help? What role does he see for himself to make such collectives more accessible tozzp'ers and more findable? Because I think that's where the solution lies. So not immediately, as you can see, perhaps from the government a generic provision, but from the collective together share risks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u28	Those bread funds also look at each other: who are we going to let into the fund, yes? There too you can see the first division. So there are people, we know them, who are forced from a reorganisation, then still try to earn their living as a zzp'er, otherwise they have almost no income or no income at all. Doesn't the VVD see any future for them to be able to secure themselves financially?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u29	Maybe I didn't explain it quite well, but I think I've asked a lot of questions about the existing facilities you have. You can be assured at the UWV. Is that what people do? How can we make them do that more? There's no way it's gonna say UWV: we're not gonna do it. The safety net provision at insurers is there. There's no way they're gonna say, "We're not gonna do that." So there are those possibilities. I'm asking, can you make it even wider? I think that would help. Then that's what we have to do. But can we make it better known, better findable? Can we also point out other ways to organize yourself, for example those bread funds? I want the whole spectrum, because there's no more onezzp'er who's like the other. Diversity is increasing, so you have to give people the space to choose what suits them. But then they must have the opportunity to insure themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u30	Mr Wiersma needs a lot of words in response to the questions that have just been asked by my colleagues, that he is in favour of insurance but above all not compulsory. Well, then that's clear. I am particularly surprised at the answer to Mrs Van Brenk's first question, because I think he is asking the right question: could we not perhaps look at a certain amount of money, under which perhaps you should just insure yourself? That is actually the idea behind the plan in the government agreement for a minimum rate forzzp's: that that minimum rate should be so high that it should at least be able to pay you disability and pension.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u31	In my view, the idea of minimum rates is quite explainable, namely that if people are not actually a self-employed person but are printed in it, with these minimum rates you want to lay some sort of ground in the market under which you say: then such a person is actually simply employed and has to have a contract of employment. Above that you can be an entrepreneur; then we will have a lot of different types of entrepreneurs. But then it's up to you. I mean, the coalition agreement doesn't agree that you'll fall into all kinds of obligations. However, the coalition agreement agrees that we are going to ensure that there are opportunities to assure you. I would point out that we would have liked to see a little more there. I wonder if the Minister can show me now. 'Cause maybe he's got a lot in his back pocket.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u32	Interesting that Mr Wiersma is asking the Minister to show us more. Of course, we are going to talk about minimum rates. I ask Mr Wiersma of the VVD Group a very simple question. Do you think that the minimum rates should be so high that, on this basis, you can take out disability insurance and build up a pension?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u33	Mr Smeulders knows the answer, because this is in the coalition agreement. We have agreed on these rates: €15 to €18.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u34	Thank you to Mr Wiersma. I call Mr Van Weyenberg, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u35	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is a subject that we have also discussed extensively in the recent budget debate: how do we deal with the self-employed? Can we separate more false self-employed and genuine self-employed? In doing so, we also give the real self-employed more room to undertake with regard to D66. The central theme is, in my opinion, whether it works a little bit with speed. Mr. Chairman. The coalition agreement has as its central starting point: more room for real self-employed workers, but also a minimum rate that has already been mentioned here under which you are supposed to be an employee. With a rate below €15 to €18 you are automatically insured for disability and you build up a modest supplementary pension on top of the AOW. I'm still surprised. We have the European Semester, and now the Minister is getting a recommendation. In fact, we are getting them all in the Netherlands from the European Union in order to do more to tackle bogus self-employment and protection. At the same time, according to the Minister's last letter, European rules seem to stand in the way of the elaboration of the coalition agreement measure. I am referring to the measure that you are considered an employee at a rate below €15 to €18. You can't do it on your own, because you can't guarantee it. That is very important and, in all honesty, I do not understand it very much. Now, I do not think the Minister has given up 100% of the courage, but the letter was gloomy about whether the coalition agreement could be European law. But that's really weird, isn't it, if at the same time we get a recommendation to do more to protect the bottom? I really can't place that. How does the Minister work in his international contacts? A lot of countries want this. In some countries I see examples of which I think: I do not think that this is the way forward. I think that the idea in the coalition agreement is a very good idea, as a member of the 'We of the Duck' brigade. I know that many colleagues, including the opposition, support the goal. How then is it possible that Europe encourages us to do more but at the same time seems to block the solution? I'd like the Minister's consideration. I'm also curious why there's so little incentive for voluntary insurance at UWV. Yeah, you're only allowed in there for the first 13 weeks after you started. There has once been an adopted chamberal motion of myself to extend this to 26 weeks. I liked that motion, but Minister Asscher refused to implement it, because he found it priceless. That surprised me. I ask the Minister whether this is actually true. Is it true that extending that period has such huge financial consequences? I would like to ask this question again. I see to Mr Gijs van Dijk of the Labour Party that I can almost ask this question on his behalf, for which I thank him. But seriously, what we have on safety net arrangements has the limitation that you can only enter it during a certain period after you have started. I ask the Minister whether the figures used by Minister Asscher are still in line with the image of this Minister. They were very large amounts of money. I understand we don't just have it, but I was surprised. A number of questions have also been asked about the 'burning houses', with which I would like to join, including the question on the state of implementation of Mr Gijs van Dijk's motion, which we have also supported. I also look forward to the cabinet bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u36	Mrs. Van Brenn has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u37	Mr Van Weyenberg knows that I am enthusiastic about Mr Jetten...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u38	Who isn't, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u39	... but because of his lecture last weekend, I got even more excited. It was about breaking down walls in society and ensuring security for everyone. There must also be more investment and less market forces. Here seems to me to be an opportunity for D66. That's why I'm going to try to get D66 excited for compulsory or at least collective insurance for people who otherwise can't afford it. Could D66 possibly draw a line with us somewhere? If thesezzp'ers earn so little, we can arrange together a collective for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u40	Firstly, I welcome Mrs Van Brenn's interest in the Kerdijk Lecture. I also liked the lecture myself, but it makes me much happier that you also liked it very much. For me it may be one stroke less surprising than for you, but it's very nice. It also states that D66 is in favour of a minimum rate, with the idea: can you actually be an entrepreneur if you don't earn enough to live on it? You yourself rightly mentioned the concerns about the poverty figures that were announced today. If you don't have a penny to pay and you don't have enough money to insure you or to save for your pension, how much are you a real entrepreneur? As far as I am concerned, this is also the starting point of the coalition agreement. The idea behind that €15 to €18 is also a bit that you might have some euros left for insurance. It may not be 100% a solution to the mandatory insurance you want. I'm less excited about that. I'd rather seduce than oblige. But the underlying idea is: if you earn too little euros to be able to live on and insure you, then there is no real self-employment. So maybe we're closer together here, even before that beautiful Kerdijk lecture.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u41	I'm always quite tempted, but sometimes you just have to help people out. The question is whether D66 doesn't expect too much from this group, which is really in trouble. The same applies to the elderly in this group, who cannot even be insured. What can these people expect from D66?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u42	In all honesty, Mrs Van Brenn is right about the minimum rate. That's a major step. It is really a different step from, for example, the starting point in my group's electoral programme. It is also a real recognition that there are concerns, in particular, about a group in which you can ask yourself whether there is voluntary entrepreneurship and whether you can be assured. So I think the coalition agreement there is very valuable. It is not for nothing that I have just expressed my concern about how this is being dealt with by the European Union. I cannot actually place that on the agenda, also given the concerns that Mrs Van Brenk has, which I myself have and which I believe the European Commission has. It is not yet a solution for people who may have worked for a long time but who are thrown out of their insurance. That's what I'm very concerned about with you. The step towards compulsoryization is not the step I would like to take now, but my group has not for nothing also supported Mr Gijs van Dijk's motion to look again at what we can do with all the regulations that are already in place and which are mainly about start-ups. Can you do anything with the access criteria there? I just asked for that myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u43	My question concerns the minimum rate. Mr Van Weyenberg mentioned a number of times that €15 to €18. Underneath, you're actually just an employee. But he also indicates that for those €15 to €18 you can have disability insurance and can build up a pension. Could Mr Van Weyenberg back that up? I'll ask my follow-up question right away. If the Minister's plans show that it can't be done, do you think the rate should be raised?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u44	This is a fair question. In pensions, you have the AOW franchise. With an income of €15 to €18, the AOW is by far the most important component in pensions. This also applies to employees. But it is clearly above the statutory minimum wage for employees, precisely on the assumption that you need the extra euros put on top of it in the government agreement, for that part where employees are paid social security contributions and pension contributions are paid out. That makes it a storage facility. If the sums show that it should be €18.50, I would like to see it. That's my lead. That number is an indication from the point of view that I believe we share. If a sum would show that €18 is not enough but that it should be €19 in a numerical list, I would like to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u45	I think the space offered is positive, but I wonder if this really solves the discussion about disability insurance forzzp's, even if it would be €19. At present 80% are not insured. Following on from what Mrs Van Brenn just asked, I would like to ask Mr Van Weyenberg for the last time: do you really think that the plans this cabinet has are going to ensure that, so to speak, in five years' time many morezzp'ers will have disability insurance? We are very concerned about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u46	You're absolutely right. If you introduce compulsory insurance for everyone, you get a higher coverage rate than in the Cabinet's plans. That's true. I'm not ready to be there for that right now, because I'm even more in the phase of temptation. That is why I have asked all kinds of questions about how to improve access to insurance. We're talking to private insurers. I asked whether the existing safety net system could be extended and what its effects would be. In addition, there is the minimum. This concerns the question of whether you could do what for the group with the lowest rates. For that group, my concern may be the greatest. I think those different elements together can make a difference. I agree with Mr Smeulders that in the end the proof of the pudding is always in the eating. In practice, it will have to be seen whether the level of insurance increases as much as we all want.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u47	Beautiful Dutch. Mr. Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u48	We often hear Mr Van Weyenberg's pudding passing by. It is a good thing that Mr Van Weyenberg points out that, if the rates are insufficient to regulate pensions and disability insurance, it is necessary to consider whether those rates should indeed be higher. I have the same question to him as I just asked the VVD. That will not solve the problem that insurers charge a huge premium for a 60-year-old or that they refuse to insure someone because there is physical labour. How does Mr Van Weyenberg see a solution for these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u49	That's very acidic. I have already changed that during the budget debate. You pay 20 years' bounty and suddenly you're getting bailed out. This is precisely why my group also supported Mr Gijs van Dijk's motion. The current safety net arrangements are all about starting people. Then the time limit is an x-number of weeks. I think you should report to the private safety nets in over a year. That's not a solution for people who get kicked out of insurance. I'll admit it right away. Would the following be a solution? I'll think of this on the spot. What are the pros and cons when you say that people whose insurance is terminated can report to the safety net? Is that a workable way? I would like to look for solutions here with you. I would like to use the inspiration I have given to your question to ask the Minister the same question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u50	That is very nice, but let us conclude that the safety net scheme concerns 75% of the minimum wage. That's really nothing, especially when you're at the end of your career. You're gonna go down the ravine in income. For the first 12 months, you don't get any benefits at all. I do not think this is a solution at all for the group of people we are looking for. There is a 12-month waiting period for insurance companies for the safety net scheme, as I say to Mr Heerma, who is asking me to look at him. That's not where the solution is. Are you willing to join us, together with at least the left-wing parties, 50PLUS and others, to see if there can be a collective insurance that everyone is just connected to? This is in its simplicity and solidarity the direction we must take together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u51	A collective insurance around the minimum without tests is according to the starting point of Mr Gijs van Dijk's motion, which I believe you supported, on the more open system. You say this is no help at all. Well, I think a minimum level insurance where you don't have to eat your house for some people is a lot better than what's in there right now. I'm a lot less sceptical about that than you are. I admit that this is something different than income-related insurance, no misunderstanding, but it would be a very big step forward for that group. I didn't ask for nothing about the insurers who want the market. The insurance companies want that, too. You don't make it more attractive for people to insure themselves if they know that insurance ends five years before their retirement, for example. There are also people who can really no longer insure themselves because an insurer refuses to do so. It happens that people get kicked out of their insurance. It happens, and it's poignant. Then there is an opportunity to treat these people as a newzzp'er and then one can get into the safety net. That may not be the ideal you choose, but it seems to me to be a really big step forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u52	I know you'd love to do it in threes, Mr. Van Kent, but we'll do it in two. Finally, Mr Heerma of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u53	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to start with the sighs that Mr Smeulders made at the beginning of his term and Mr Wiersma at the end of his term. Mr Smeulders indicated that this is not the first time we have talked about the problems in thezzp market. And Mr Wiersma said just about that patience is starting to run out. I understand that the Minister thinks "we're going again," but there's a reason for that. In the letter we received in November, you see that the insurance rate is falling, while the order was in the government agreement to see how it could go up and to talk to insurers about a better insurance offer. In addition, you can see that the risk of long-term poverty is increasing amongzzp'ers, even at the current economic tide. This is evident from the figures that came in this morning, which Mr Smeulders was also talking about. If I look at the commitments that the Minister has already made, both from the coalition agreement and from adopted motions, and in debates, several speakers have already asked for them, then I also get the feeling: when will it come? Then you go very slowly from "predictfully beating my heart" to real impatience. Let me walk by three. The first, announced in the November letter, is about promoting choice behaviour. My starting position is: fine, but I think it is only part of the problem. This was said in the letter: you will hear more at the beginning of 2019. We're in March now. In my opinion this is a bit later than early 2019. We haven't heard anything yet. When will we at least get this partial answer? 'Cause it's part of it. That consciousness is definitely helping, although it certainly isn't enough, but we don't have even this yet. Then there's the burning house discussion. Mr Van Kent has already started discussions on this. We asked several questions about this during the budget debate in November. I also supported Mr Van Kent. This was about part of the problem: the government has changed things with the retirement age, which has an effect on private insurance products. The Minister made a commitment to this. I think we would hear more about this at the beginning of this year or this spring. We have not heard anything about this in the run-up to this debate. Then there is Mr Van Dijk's motion. It's been mentioned here before. In my opinion, that motion was not about the safety net scheme for insurers. That motion was about what more can be done at the UWV if people cannot be insured with insurers? That motion was supported by the entire Chamber except by Forum for Democracy. My party also supported it and the VVD and D66, because it was a good motion by Mr Van Dijk. But we haven't heard from him since. I would like to hear from the Minister in the short term what progress we are going to make on all three of these matters, because we have a lot of debates onzzp'ers. The AO Labour Market was also about this and tomorrow the VAO will be partly about it. When can we expect concrete results when it comes to the level of insurance and the burning house debate? When are we gonna see it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u54	Thank you. We have come to the end of the first term of office. The Minister has indicated that he needs 15 minutes to prepare his response.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u55	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u56	Thank you, Madam President. Today we are talking aboutzzp'ers who are excluded from disability insurance. I would like to remind the House that the debate was requested a year ago, a year ago. In the meantime, in a number of debates, including recently, we have considered the issue of budgetary treatment and labour market policy. There have also been motions adopted, which I will come back to in a moment. I have a general piece onzzp and then a specific piece on insurance and all investigations, commitments and motions for resolutions under way. I can see the impatience of many of your speakers. I share that impatience and I share the urgency. I also understand that they touch today's debate. The cabinet considers it important that self-employed people make a conscious choice to insure themselves or not. The same applies to the choice of the zzp-schap. After all, it is also in the interests ofzzp'ers to opt for self-employment for the right reasons. The subject has your attention, of the Chamber. I'm happy about that, too. Mr Smeulders, Mr Heerma and Mr Wiersma said that we have talked about this several times recently and that several steps have already been taken. During the House's work on the Labour Market Act in balance, you were quite right to raise the issue and we discussed this extensively in the Labour Market Policy Office two weeks ago. Tomorrow we'll have a VAO about that and then it'll definitely be about this again. This shows that we share the concerns about the current state of the labour market with regard tozzp's and that we also share the need for action to address this problem. That is why I think it is important to adopt measures as soon as possible. At the moment, as you know, we are working very hard on a number of measures to give employees and, not least, their clients tools that are needed to shape the employment relationship in a proper way. I understand your impatience, but working out these measures is simply not an easy task. I also shared that with your Chamber in the letter of late November, the progress letter. First, let me briefly outline what the trajectory looks like. We actually have four lines that are currently being worked out. First of all, the elaboration of the measures contained in the government agreement, then enforcement by the Tax Administration and the Inspectorate SZW. We also have the Committee on the Regulation of Work; the Borstlap Committee is currently running. And then there is the broader approach to the labour market, before I go into insurance, I would like to outline where we stand, to show that a lot is happening at the same time. Mr. Chairman. As I said, the Secretary of State for Finance and I, together with the Secretary of State for EZK, sent the Chamber the second progress letter on 26 November on the state of play of the implementation of thezzp measures. In particular, it is a question of developing measures to protect the bottom and, more precisely, of creating more room for real entrepreneurs at the top. This requires further exploration on parts. We are working hard on this at the moment. One part of that is that we are talking to the ACM, I say in the direction of Mrs Van Brenk. This is also due to recent reports. Mr Van Weyenberg also asked about this two weeks ago. There was a recent article in Trouw and an interview with Mr. Snoep, the chairman of the ACM, in Het Financieele Dagblad, on the search for space for agreements on soil rates forzzp'ers. That's what it's really about. It is clear that tariff agreements in collective agreements should only be made for so-called bogus self-employed persons. These are service providers who are in a situation similar to that of workers performing the same work. At present, it is too early to conclude that minimum rates for employees in collective agreements are also eligible for an avv. However, the article reopens the discussion as to whether competition law currently offers scope for such collective agreements. Mrs Van Brenk also mentioned a report by Mrs Klara Boonstra on this subject in Het Financieele Dagblad. I've read that with a lot of interest. I would also like to involve this discussion in the elaboration of the measures. I will also discuss this point with the ACM. So this is very sharp on my retina, but it's also just looking, because as Klara Boonstra also described in her article in the FD, there are several explanations of case law in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u57	Mr Van Wijngaarden.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u58	Van Wijnbergen. From Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u59	From Weyenberg. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u60	That's how I work at the CNV. Well, that's kind of fun. In particular, the colleagues like this very much, I see. I think it's all a disgrace, but that's a complete aside. I'm all over my a-pros, chairman. But let's talk about the minimum rates. The Minister is now talking very much about collective agreements and bogus self-employed people. The question that has been raised on this subject and, as far as I am concerned, the Minister's commitment on this matter also really related to agreements made by the self-employed themselves. In a collective agreement, they are decided upon. I think it is precisely what self-employed people can do. Think of interpreters who actually only have one interpreting agency in the government, so they can be hired, or perhaps photographers with a select number of clients. The search is broader than just the collective agreement, I now ask slightly concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u61	Sure. The first part of my story, that what I said to Mrs Van Brenk, was about the FNV Kiem discussion, about false self-employment. The second part of my story was about competition law. That does indeed touch on Mr Van Weyenberg's question, which Mr Snoep, the chairman of the ACM, gave a brief consideration in the FD. But, of course, we need to find out if that's possible, what room for it is, and how it could be done. This could also be parallel to legislation on minimum rates, which we are setting in the scaffolding. I'll get back to you in a minute. I think it's an interesting discussion. I also find Mrs Boonstra's article in the FD interesting. I'd like to talk to the ACM about that. I'm sorry, I'm just picking it up. New laws and regulations are still needed in this area. I say this in the direction of Mr Smeulders and Mr Heerma, who, like Mrs Van Brenk, asked me about my response to the CBS figures this morning on the working poor, and in particular about the risk of poverty among workers. This report and also the recent report by the SCP on working poor show that not everyone with work has an income that is not at risk of poverty, especially if you have a job with few hours. The new message from the CBS shows thatzzp'ers are relatively more likely to face a risk of poverty. I have also said it before: there is no such thing as thezzp'er. It is a very diverse group that is covered by the same title zzp'er. A very large part of thezzp'ers enjoy free entrepreneurship and can also make a living. However, there is also a part that has a real problem with this. So you also have to think about the question we are talking about exactly: are those who are indeed fully dependent on a main income, or do they, for a few hours a week for example, add something to it that makes them morezzp? All these statistics are mixed up because there is no clear, real definition of thezzp'er. Having said that, we are once again seeing confirmation that, as a cabinet, we want to better protect vulnerablezzp'ers. We have announced measures on this in the government agreement. As mentioned earlier, the legislation is technically and legally extremely complex, but it is extremely important that we take steps in this regard. I am very motivated and committed to taking those steps in the coming time. The intention is that it will no longer be possible to hire long-term self-employed workers at a low rate. For example, bogus self-employment, but also competition on working conditions, Mr Smeulders referred to this at the bottom of the labour market. It is, I think, extremely important on both sides that we take those steps. Mr Van Weyenberg... He didn't run, I hope! I'll get back to you in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u62	He's out of sight for a second.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u63	But they're listening. Mr Van Weyenberg asked about European rules and what they do and do not allow. Informal official talks were held with the European Commission in the autumn. Based on its own analysis of all information, the Cabinet concludes that the risk is substantial that the ALT measure, whereby people become real employees and receive employment, is or may be contrary to EU law. This is in particular about the competition side. In particular, the transposition of the contract of employment of the self-employed person covered by the ALT into a contract of employment gives rise to tension in proportionality: is this not an excessive intervention in the market? This potentially infringes the freedom of establishment and the freedom to provide services of self-employed persons in the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. That was also the reason why, as a cabinet, we sought alternatives, as I included in the letter of 26 November. These are possible alternatives which serve the same purpose, but which can be designed in a different way to bring this goal closer. Mr Van Weyenberg is right that we are not going to give up. We have included alternative routes, such as sectoral and generic minimum rates, in the letter. We're working it out now. Our cautious assessment is that there are more possibilities here, also because, as Mr Van Weyenberg rightly pointed out, this debate is taking place in many European countries, especially in North-West European countries. I have spoken about this with my German colleague and with my Belgian colleague. This discussion is also taking place in France. How do we actually deal with the new labour market as a result of platforming and digitisation and how does it fit into old labour law? As indicated earlier, the Cabinet intends to send the choices made by the Cabinet in respect of these measures to the Chamber for the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u64	You can finish your sentences.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u65	I was gonna switch to...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u66	Oh, this is a new topic. Then Mr. Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u67	In response to Mr Van Weyenberg's question, the Minister comes to an interesting discussion. The Minister has promised me in the AO Labour Market to come up with an overview of which countries are already taking action within the framework of the platforms. But it is still strange that it is said from Europe on the one hand to the Netherlands specifically that we really have to do something with this while on the other hand, when it is there, Europe says that it cannot be done according to European rules. As more and more countries are involved in this, I wonder whether there is not in cooperation with several North-West European countries to say that the only way to deal with this is if Europe is willing to cooperate in the solutions that will then have to be found.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u68	I understand the question, but this one is not very easy to answer. Ultimately, it's about dilemmas about freedoms and what choices you make in them. Simply put: there are also less far-reaching steps to ensure better protection. One of those less far-reaching steps, which means that less says "you're an employee," is working with a minimum rate. That is why we believe that this is more in line with the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, while also serving the purpose of better protection. At the same time, I agree with Mr Heerma that this is uncomfortable. This tension is also felt in Brussels when you speak to the various representatives of the various Directorates-General. The most important point, I think, is that I expect this debate to take place in Europe, that there is room for it and that there is a desire for it. That does not happen very quickly, as Mr Heerma knows. This is not going to be resolved within a year, because it is a fundamental debate on freedom to provide services and movement. So I don't want to wait for that. As far as I am concerned, we will continue to have the debate in Europe and the Netherlands must also play an active role in this, but we must take steps in the legislation to bring that protection closer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u69	Of course, it has to go through. Alternatives are also being examined at the same time. In my view, I also indicated at the last plenary debate that I believe that this should be speeded up. At the same time, reference has already been made in this debate to the predecessor of this minister, Mr Delors, when we started the Detaching Directive, we also started with very few countries that wanted something in that regard and finally managed to obtain support. On the one hand, you have the national task, but on the other hand, when you see that it is a problem in all those countries, you can also put pressure together and say: the signals given here are very ambiguous.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u70	Yes. I agree with Mr Heerma. At the same time, it is interesting to peel this off for a while. One debate is about the possibility within Europe, within European legislation, of making such agreements. That's one discussion. I agree with Mr Heerma that you could take steps. The second point is that all these countries face the same discussions on the combination of labour law, social security and taxation. Mr Heerma asked for examples of justice in other countries in the previous debate two weeks ago. We regularly see statements about, for example, the platform economy. For example, two weeks ago, the High Council in the UK flagged back something that seemed to be more of a solution, namely the worker definition. The High Council in the United Kingdom has said: no, that is not a solution, what it does not fit into labour law. So my answer is yes when it comes to the European debate and the debate on freedom of competition and entrepreneurship versus protection, but that really is not the whole story. There really is a much more fundamental question about labour law and the definition of "employer" and "worker." That is, of course, also the task we have given to the Borstlap Committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u71	Mr Heerma (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u72	I follow Mr Van Kent's example; that was my intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u73	Yeah, that's what I was afraid of.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u74	I noticed that the Minister's answer at the end started to annoy me a little, and I don't like that. Yeah, it's gotta be national. Yes, we must enter into the debate in Europe. Yeah, there's all kinds of complicated stuff going on. I understand all that, but my question isn't whether we should do those other things. Since the debate is taking place in Europe, my question is whether the Minister is prepared to bring the countries where this is taking place together in order to see if several countries can be found which, like the Detachment Directive, together say in Europe: this is too ambiguous; we need more space.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u75	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u76	Because because it is happening in so many countries, a leading group has to be formed or pressured alongside all other things, not to replace it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u77	Yes. I'm willing to do that. Unfortunately, the practice is sorry that you are irritated by the fact that each country has its own institutional framework, so that each country is faced with its own problems and it is very difficult to find a single line in them. But the fact that I hear more often from my colleagues that this is happening and that they are looking for a solution means that we in Europe need to get to work on this. I agree with Mr Heerma. I also hope, for example, that we will be able to hear from the new Commission.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u78	A willing ear like that doesn't go by itself. That is a matter of doing your homework on the front so that, when there is a new Commission work programme, there are also the things that the Netherlands would like to do. So I'm just trying to build on Mr Heerma's question. Is it an idea that the Minister, who I think is trying to do this on his own, is trying to draw up a letter with the largest possible group of countries, which simply refers to this point, and as far as I am concerned, I myself had asked for it between the assignment we get from Brussels and the obstacle they do at the same time for free? Is the Minister willing to do that? And can this be done in the relatively short term? Because then you can have an impact on the work programme of that new Commission.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u79	I understand this question. In fact, I share it. At the same time, I note that I have often debated with your Chamber European initiatives that the Netherlands is not very enthusiastic about. I promised Mr Wiersma that after the European elections in May and the installation of a new Commission, I would come up with a vision to see how this fits in with the Netherlands' relationship with labour market legislation and the social pillar. I note in many debates in this House about European intervention that the Chamber is very reluctant to solve the European problem. This is a bit of a bummer. I'll admit that immediately. It's a bit of a you-bake, but the point is that my German, Belgian and French colleagues share the concerns about this point. We think we should do something about this. I'm willing to set that in motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u80	I think the Minister can rest assured as far as my party is concerned. We don't have that shudder. I know what the Minister's saying. As far as I am concerned, that is precisely why you should not be out of line with small symbol things in Europe, which means that you can no longer be effective during the big main games. I fully agree with the Minister. If we have to leave a feather somewhere else to get this done, I'd like to hear what feathers that would be. What is actually happening here is that almost the entire parliament says to the Minister: we like the coalition agreement so much, so don't give up yet. I think that's a win. I am proud of the compromise that it contains. So could we look at whether there is a group of countries to be found in the short term, sending something of a common signal, by letter or something? I understand the Minister's waiting in the meantime.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u81	Clear, clear, clear. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u82	I hear the request of a number of parties from the Chamber. Let me think about it. Let us also see if this is a good timing, given that there will soon be European elections. We have a written consultation on the EPSCO Council. Well, I'll get back to you on that, if that's okay with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u83	I understand the Minister's answer, but I do not understand it at all. I do believe that part of the Chamber is critical of Europe. The parties we represent here are a lot less. But it must be possible to do something that the Chamber would like to do, namely, in fact, at one point less Europe. We want to make sure that Europe sets less stringent rules so that we can deal with them jointly either at national level or otherwise at European level. I mean, it's gotta be possible, right? There's just support for that, isn't there? If Europe makes this impossible, it is very bad for Europe's support in the Netherlands. Does the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u84	I agree with Mr Smeulders on that last point. If you look at the discussions that are taking place in Europe, for example on the Detaching Directive or on the Mobility Package for Transport, you will see that there are very large differences between the different Member States. There are also very large differences of interest between Member States. A number of countries, I shall not mention them by name, do not want too many interventions in the market, because they want to compete. They say: our cost advantage is our competitive advantage. This is how we make our money in the internal market. So yes, hence the social pillar. Hence the Prime Minister's statement in Gothenburg on the social pillar. But you're right: when it gets concrete and when you look at the underlying files, it's often more complicated. Then it is not just a contradiction between freedom and protection, but it also has to do with the different interests of countries. You shouldn't think about this too easily.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u85	We certainly do not think about it too simply. On the basis of the Minister's reply, we do not have the idea that this will be dealt with simply and quickly. That is why my second question to the Minister is: what period of time do you think? I think it could take years for us to change this in Brussels, including all the legislation that will have to be adapted. What is the time when the Minister makes the "go/no go" decision and otherwise continues alternatives? Because we have been waiting far too long for measures to be taken on the bottom.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u86	This is a reversal of my reasoning. I have just told Mr Heerma that I understand his question and that I am very prepared to take steps there. At the same time, I also know that it is not easy in Europe to have overnight an agreement. So I just need to work this out in parallel. Now Mr Smeulders is turning it around. I think that's a little short. As far as I am concerned, there are two routes at the same time. In fact, I am now in the most hurry to implement the coalition agreement measures. Because in the short term that is the most likely to address this problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u87	Just on this point, briefly. I think that many people are frowning at the things that Europe sometimes does, because they weren't waiting for it, whereas Europe doesn't do other things that you as a country would like to do. Well, that's kind of what this discussion is about. We are thinking of something that might work, which might provide solutions for a lot of other Member States. That is something Europe is looking for. Then we see those two thoughts. But Europe may also be susceptible to some kind of experimental role, which the Netherlands could offer. It starts with countries that dare to pioneer and try to tackle problems with new solutions, without Europe immediately deciding what is the best solution for them. Because that is also a discussion that we are seeing in Europe. That is why I welcome, in conclusion, the Minister's commitment to hold the debate on Europe with the Chamber, if that committee is there, but also in advance, if that committee is still to be influenced. 'Cause we're a lot behind the facts. That's exactly what's annoying about it. So this could lead the Netherlands. So support the request of colleagues here to see if the Netherlands can play an experimental role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u88	Clear. Thank you on behalf of the Minister, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u89	I think we'll make it quite simple if we let Frans Timmermans do the next period from the Netherlands. Anyway, that aside. Color the right box in May, then it will be fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u90	Hidden voting advice. Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u91	No, it's just an observation. My question is this. The Minister said he would come forward with measures at least before this summer, with a minimum rate or with another variant. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u92	I'll get back to you on that. There are several paths that run at the same time, with different timelines. That's what I wanted to get started on right now. But indeed, that is the goal. My follow-up would be: in the meantime, concrete steps have been taken to counter bogus self-employment and to provide clarity about the employment relationship. The client declaration is at a further stage. The web module is expected to be ready by 2020. Through a web module, clients can obtain a statement that may be the result that there is no employment. This also gives them certainty about the qualification of the employment relationship. We have also clarified the authority criterion on 1 January of this year. The Wage Tax Handbook has been distributed. It tried to give employers, clients, more guidance, for example about that important thing, the authority criterion. There was a lot of confusion about that. Secretary of State Snel van Financiën has started the implementation of the supervisory plan, which provides for the supervision of labour relations. An evaluation of the monitoring plan has been carried out. If it's all right, your room received a letter today. We discussed it extensively in the AO two weeks ago. That letter was sent to your room today, if that's all right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u93	I see a nod in agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u94	We have also intensified enforcement by the Inspection SZW. On 1 July last year, the Tax Administration published its Monitoring Plan for Employment Relations. That's what that letter was sent to your room today. In addition to the concrete measures and actions, I think it is important to appoint the following. There are still important questions for the future. Fundamental changes such as robotisation and platforming really change the structure of the labour market. In addition, people also have different wishes for the design of their work than before. This creates new challenges for the way we organise the labour market. I also think it is important that we start thinking in good time about how we want to shape the rules, legislation and taxation around the labour market in the future. There is a lot going on in the Dutch labour market. A lot of people have jobs. We have high labour productivity. What's good, we have to keep it right. But in the longer term, more fundamental adjustments may be needed. That is why I asked the Committee on the Regulation of Work, the Borstlap Committee, to explore these adjustments in conjunction, i.e. in the areas of taxation, social security and labour law, and to come up with recommendations. Here too, the themes we are discussing today come together. The Committee will also look at labour and contract relations in the labour market, as laid down in the Civil Code and Social Security Law. The risk of incapacity for work is part of this. I think Mrs Van Brenk asked a question about this in the AO two weeks ago. The committee has started. I met the members in December. They sent an open invitation to many people two weeks ago to send a view. I hope you've seen them, too. So take advantage of that opportunity, I'd say. I look forward to the advice. Finally, in terms of introduction. Of course, we are working on a wide package. When dealing with the Labour Market Act in balance, I said that the Labour Market Act in balance is a first big step. Wage pay in case of illness and WIA are a second important step. Andzzp is a third important step. And especially atzzp we are now working on its elaboration. That whole package is connected. And the Committee on the Regulation of Work is also related to this. This is really about the labour market of the future and about restoring the balance on the labour market. The cabinet's commitment is to implement all the measures mentioned in 2020 or 2021, to prevent what the State Council also warns of, namely a waterbed effect, which actually pushes people in a certain direction, namely to the lowest point in the labour market, where protection is the lowest and costs are the lowest. So it is precisely that integrality that is important to stress, I think. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the second block, namely disability insurance. In both the media and this Chamber, disability insurance for self-employed persons is a regular theme, and rightly so. I also do not want an independent scaffolding builder falling off the scaffolding to receive assistance because he has not made provisions against incapacity for work. During the budget debate in November, we had a detailed exchange of views on this subject. I also made a number of commitments at the time, and a motion was also adopted in this area. I refer to the investigation into those 'burning houses' which Mr Van Kent, but also Mr Heerma, asked for in the budget debate. This concerns the increase in the AOW age. That investigation is now under way. In a moment I will come back to that in a more specific way. I also started an investigation into the hard-to-insurable older self-employed, following a question asked by Mr Jasper van Dijk at the time. Unfortunately, today's debate is actually too early. Of course, this also has to do with the fact that this debate was requested a year ago. This is actually planned in between, because these investigations and commitments are ongoing. We're running it now, but unfortunately I can't share the results with your Chamber yet. By the way, Mr Gijs van Dijk's motion called for the results to be presented in spring 2019, so we also changed the timetable accordingly. In fact, this debate is exactly in between in terms of planning, so to speak. That also makes it a bit uncomfortable for me in terms of timetable, I say honestly. We're working hard, but I can't share a lot of results yet. In June, I expect to be able to offer both investigations to your Chamber. Then we also have clarity on those two points. In addition, I am also working on Mr Heerma's request for the preparation of the Promotion of Choice Behaviour programme. For this I would send a plan of action in early 2019. It's due at the end of the month. That's what we're doing. In particular, it is a question of encouraging self-employed workers to think more quickly and to think more consciously about disability insurance, to take it on time and to actually go through it. We can see that there is also a problem: people are not going to think until too late. Then they're really late and they're gonna have a problem with acceptance. In the budget debate, I also said that if someone makes the choice for entrepreneurship, that includes the lusts and the burdens. This is, of course, also the result of political choices that have been made in this area over the past ten or fifteen years. Let me mention, for example, the WAZ, the Disability Insurance Act for Self-employed Persons. It was, of course, very deliberately abolished in 2006 or 2007, as I say from my mind, because there was a lot of irritation about it. So yes, part of the problem is of course also related to the choices made over the last ten or fifteen years when it comes to the organization of the labour market. This is without prejudice to the fact that I agree with you that the current level of insurance is far too low: 20% of the employees are insured for incapacity for work. That is why, in the government agreement, we announced that we would talk about this with the insurers, in order to increase that level of insurance. I reported on this in the letter of 26 November 2018. Now I have a few specific questions. Mrs Van Brenk, Mr Smeulders, Mr Van Dijk and Mr Van Kent have all actually asked for compulsory disability insurance as a solution. Again, the level of insurance is indeed low, and that worries the cabinet. I have outlined the state of play of the discussions with the insurers. That letter also shows the boundaries of the current regime, which is based on the political choices that have been made so far, which I have just spoken about. We do feel committed to increasing that level of insurance by encouraging self-employed people to make a conscious choice and find a better way to get to insurance. That's the program that's about to start. For the longer term, as I said, we have asked the Borstlap Committee to look at this more fundamentally. I'd like to give you a profit warning. In the past year, I have gone very deeply into implementation. We have had discussions about, for example, the UWV and the problems that there have been in the implementation. This is really a very complicated question, because we have set up our system in the Netherlands in such a way that we actually put everything up with the employer. The employer pays the contributions, pays the payroll tax, is responsible for the risks. For self-employed or entrepreneurs we just don't have that administration. If you want to make a move towards universal social security, which Mr Smeulders has talked about, that also requires a great deal of implementation. That really is not just arranged from one moment to the next. I'd like to give you that win warning one more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u95	The Minister has already mentioned a lot of parties insisting on making it compulsory. Would it also be possible to try to do something collective where there is an opt-out option, where all those self-employed people, which the VVD in particular is talking about, those real entrepreneurs, can arrange it in a different way?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u96	These variants have, of course, been more frequent in recent years, but first of all, it is a fundamentally different choice from what we have made so far, namely an obligation, and secondly, there is another risk selection effect, but then the other way in which certain risks are not covered. These are the right risks, which are likely to leave the bad risks behind in the pool, which increases the premium, because the premium must be cost-effective. This makes this discussion and the conversation with the insurers so complicated: there is a risk that the good risks will not be included and exit the system and that the bad risks will remain, making it priceless.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u97	80% of a million self-employed people are still a large group from which fishing can take place. That seems to me to be a very attractive group for the insurers. I would like to make one more point. The Minister started by saying that self-employed people make a good choice by becoming self-employed, but we also see that a lot of people cannot make that choice on their own, because, for example, they have become unemployed, maybe have a home, stop the assistance and otherwise nothing comes in at all? Then they become long-lost but self-employed and taunting them to make ends meet. We want these people to be just as well insured, don't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u98	I agree with the analysis that we want people to be able to build a minimum of existence. Hence the idea in the coalition agreement to strive for these minimum rates at such a level that people have the opportunity to take out insurance. That was just as, towards Mrs Van Brenk, my reaction to that CBS investigation last night about the working poor and thezzp'ers within that group. That is also the central line in the coalition agreement: how do we ensure that the bottom, which is often dependent on a client, is better protected and has more opportunities to earn an income on its own? I'm working really hard on that. Mr Smeulders had asked another question about the construction industry and its private initiative. How does the Minister feel about that? I think it is a good initiative that the construction industry itself has made provision as an alternative to disability insurance. If selfemployed persons join, they pay a lump sum monthly and receive a donation from the other participants if they become unfit for work. An important point is, of course, that the duration of benefits is not more than five years. I am not saying that to disqualify it, but it is not a long-term disability insurance, but rather a'sickness+' insurance. So it looks more like a bread fund than a classic disability insurance scheme. Mr Smeulders also asked me to reply in a letter. That's what we're doing. I want to take this into account in the letter that will be sent to the Chamber before the summer and which deals with several subjects concerningzzp'ers. I would like to include such initiatives. Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Wiersma, Mr Heerma and Mr Gijs van Dijk referred to the 13 week registration period at UWV. Can it be longer, for example 26 weeks? Mr Van Weyenberg has apparently tabled a motion on this. In principle, of course, you can. The scheme can be extended, but it does cost money. More self-employed people who are already sick will report to the UWV. This leads to negative selection, which will make insurance more expensive. For the WIA, this means a further cross-subsidisation, which means that other insured persons, who are not self-employed, will contribute to the higher benefit burden. I think that was also the reason why my predecessor dissuaded the motion at the time. My picture is that in the suspension it has come up that, according to the last calculation, it would cost about EUR 60 million. So the choice is there, but the question is whether it is a wonderful solution. One is often triggered to close an aov when a life event is taking place.Sorry for English, chairman of the committee, even if a wider registration period has expired. That is why the Programme Promoting Choice Behaviour is so important. It is about how we can improve those choices and information. It is not just an information campaign. The idea is also how to stimulate behavior with nudging. Sorry, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u99	"Nudging" is not so easy to catch in a few words. "Tempting," I hear from the audience.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u100	Yes. The further development will involve stakeholders such as the Chamber of Commerce, which are close to the self-employed. Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mr Heerma and Mr Wiersma asked how the talks with insurers were going. How do they run now? The Programme Promote Choice Behavior has started. It is well-designed together with the insurers. This takes time. We are currently investigating the reasons whyzzp'ers are waiting to take out insurance in order to be able to fit in with the behavioral economy. We are also trying to have this done in June. The plan of action will come at the end of this month, as I said before, towards Mr Heerma. Part of this conversation is also that I, together with the insurance companies, look at how older people can start to insure themselves earlier. If people are previously insured, we can see that the insurance goes through to the AOW age. You can make a choice for that, but people start thinking late about such insurance, so they are no longer accepted by the insurer. That is really a point that we are paying attention to. This month comes the plan of action. Mr Gijs van Dijk asked about the prevention of age discrimination. Insurers now determine the premium on the basis of the risk profile of the person concerned. It's about age. As someone gets older, the risk of disability is higher. That's why the premium also gets higher as someone gets older. That's exactly the point I just mentioned: people need to start thinking about that insurance in time, because then the premium is just much lower and acceptance is much easier. Insurance up to the AOW age is also easier to arrange. I would like to stress that it is also important for them to consider in good time whether they are working until they are old in a physically difficult profession. This applies, of course, not only tozzp'ers, but also to employees. In the fire department and in other heavy-duty professions, the discussion is whether you can maintain the position until old age. Therefore, sustainable employability is important throughout the labour market, not only for employees but also for the self-employed. The cabinet is also working on this, for example with the career-apk, the subsidy we have started to advise people around the age of 45 to think about their future career. Mr Wiersma's question is: how often arezzp'ers refused for disability insurance? The latest figures are indeed from 2008. There are no more recent figures. We are actually trying to figure out how these figures are no longer there and whether there are legal obstacles or something. In the meantime, we couldn't have that sharp for a while. So there are no more recent figures than those of 2008.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u101	Of course, that's complicated, because when you start a campaign, you want to avoid shooting an elephant with a mosquito or vice versa; it's both clumsy. Can the Minister also promise that he will consider what possibilities there are or need to be created for insurers or anyone else, someone who is allowed to do so, because I hear that sometimes it has to do with privacy to get a better overview of this? It is not just about estimates but about an overview, including where it is then, in which sectors and in which function groups, so that we also know what we are talking about and we know at all how big the problem is and what the solutions are for it. Everything passes by, but if we don't even know how big the problem is, that makes it very difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u102	Yes, I agree. I am going to see what is known or what the obstacles are, because in 2008 these figures were apparently still there and they haven't since. I haven't been able to figure out why that is. So I'm gonna have to make that clear first. But I agree with Mr Wiersma's argument that it does help, because it is of course also part of the promotion of choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u103	It would be nice if the plan we are going to see in the Chamber also mentioned how the Minister thinks he could improve this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u104	I see a nod in agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u105	I am also looking at my support to see whether this is feasible in the short term, because at the end of this month it should be in your Chamber. I just don't know what the obstacles are with regard to the figures. So I'm going to go back to the plan of action. Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mr Van Kent, Mr Wiersma and Mr Heerma have also asked questions about the "burning houses" that have been affected by an increase in the age of AOW. I also started an investigation into the hard-to-insurable older self-employed on the occasion of Mr Gijs van Dijk's motion. The operative part refers to spring 2019. Well, it's running now, isn't it? In June, I want to share the results with the Chamber, to do it in a good way. Then I can offer both investigations to your room in June. I hope that we will really be a step further in this dossier, but we will also be a step further in the broader approach to the problem ofzzp.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u106	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u107	I'm gonna take a look at the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u108	This is it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u109	Mr. Wiersma, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u110	I have one short question. It's just a check-up. Are there any alternatives in the campaign the Minister is talking about, such as that of Self-employed Construction, which was pointed out, but also bread funds? Is that campaign also providing information on all the possibilities you have to ensure yourself?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u111	Yes, the bread funds are included in this and also the alternative to Self-employed Construction, which Mr Smeulders talked about. For the sake of clarity, bread funds are often about the first few years and about the illness period plus, to put it mildly domestically, and disability is more about the longer term. So there's a difference. But they will be taken, especially when it comes to the first period.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u112	This brings us to the end of the first term of office. No, Mr Heerma also has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u113	I listened very carefully to the Minister. I've heard him say he understands the impatience in the Chamber. At the same time, he is asking to understand the fact that this debate, which has been going on for a long time, is actually coming too soon. He has outlined a number of deadlines. I'd be happy to go along with that. Whatever would come at the beginning of the year, we'll get this month. Following both Mr Gijs van Dijk's motion and the debate with Mr Van Kent, in which I supported Mr Van Kent, we are getting some...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u114	June.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u115	Yeah, in June. This is in spring, but June is also very close to the summer recess. Can the Minister state here that we will get it in time and that it will not come just before the summer recess, so that if the Chamber wants to find anything else, we can discuss it before the summer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u116	Yes. Summer recess begins, I believe, mid-July.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u117	Yes. I'm looking at the members. I am the first to give the floor to Mrs Van Brenk for her second term contribution. Speaking time is one minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u118	Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, pending the opinion of the Commission, steps should be taken to further reduce uncertainty in the labour market and to reduce the balance;]] [[Whereas the number of working poor is increasing and the workers are at the highest risk of poverty;]] [[Whereas, moreover, the level of insurance of self-employed workers is low, and that many self-employed persons, and especially older workers, do not have sufficient opportunities to cover themselves against incapacity for work at acceptable cost;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up scenarios for a basic structural collective insurance scheme for self-employed persons against incapacity for work, with opt-out for self-employed persons who can provide protection against incapacity for work by other means,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a structural solution to the problem of "cheap"zzp-work and the qualification of the contract of employment is not within reach;]] [[Whereas, in view of the desired balance on the labour market, it is necessary to conclude the "refugee route" to "cheap work" as soon as possible and as far as possible;]] [[calls on the government to appeal to the social partners for their social responsibility, and to encourage them to make agreements so that regular forms of work can no longer be carried out on a "zzp" basis, but only on the basis of a contract of employment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Brenn and Van Kent. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29544-879]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Brenn and Van Kent. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29544-880]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u119	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u120	Thank you! I'm looking around. No? This brings us to the end of the second term of office. I'm going to suspend for a very short time to collect the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u121	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u122	Mr. Chairman. In the second term, two motions were tabled by Mrs Van Brenn. The first motion, the motion in part No. 879, calls on the government to develop scenarios for basic structural collective insurance for self-employed persons. It is in fact in line with the Smeulders motion which was tabled during the budget debate and which I did not recommend at the time. So I would also advise against this motion. He's a step further, I can see that. I recognize the opt-out variant, Mrs. Van Brenk. But the matter of principle remains that way, so I advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u123	The motion in part No. 879 is not recommended. Mrs. Van Brenk?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u124	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna make a very slight attempt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u125	A slight attempt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u126	Yes, very carefully. It is also clear to the Minister that if these people become disabled, society will ultimately pay for the costs. The question is whether we are on this side of the coin. I do indeed have that opt-out, but at least if a little carrot is supposed to go further, because in the end society is going to pay for the costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u127	Of course, disability insurance is also a protection for workers. We have the assistance in the Netherlands, but that is what Mr Van Weyenberg has already said in an interrupting debate, namely a partner and a power test. You also don't have insurance for the IOW, for example, we've been talking about recently. So you're not an employee. So the discussion of principle is still pending and I am not saying yes to that. The government's position is still that we do not want that. We do want to make every effort to see if we can get that insurance grade up, even from the thought that it will be a lot more affordable if you start on time. The second motion by Mrs Van Brenn, the motion in part No. 880, calls on the government to appeal to the social partners for their social responsibility and to encourage them to make arrangements to stop regular forms of work on azzp basis. I'm just looking. I have two feelings about this. The first feeling is that I think that working on azzp basis is also a regular form of work. So that's a definition issue. The second feeling is that I notice that social partners make agreements in collective agreements on hiring people, so that this discussion is indeed being held at the collective agreement table, wherever it belongs. In this form it seems as ifzzp is not a regular form of labor and therefore I must discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u128	The motion in part No. 880 by Mrs Van Brenk is not recommended. Mrs. Van Brenk?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u129	If I tried to work on the definition, would there still be some room in there?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u130	I think that's a bit of an open invitation. If you completely adjust her, yes. But of something in this spirit, I'd say no.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u131	That concludes this debate. I thank the Minister for coming to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-tweedekamer-28.u132	The two motions will be voted on next Tuesday. I shall suspend until 7.15 p.m. and then continue the debate on KLM and Air France.
