ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u1	As usual, we shall begin with oral Question Time. I actually wanted to give the floor to Mr Paternotte, who is watching his phone. We've just had the child questioning. None of the kids checked his or her phone. But I also see Mr Asscher and Mr Klaver at the interrupting microphone. Would you like to ask Mr Paternotte questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr President, I would like to make a point of order. In Mr Paternotte's question about the Hitler Greetings and about racist choirs during Den Bosch - Excelsior this weekend, the Prime Minister will be replaced by the Minister for Medical Care and Sport. We understand that the Prime Minister is busy, he is right outside the room giving interviews, he has been to the child questioning and later today he has the Intergovernmental Programme, but I would have liked to ask him about his absence from the debate on racism. It can't be, because he's literally absent. So my request to you, President, on the point of order, is to bring the Prime Minister to the Chamber, so that he, following the lead of the Dutch national team, Gini Wijnaldum, can show leadership in condemning racism.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u3	Mr. Klaver, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u4	Yes, Mr. Chairman, very briefly. The Prime Minister has been asked to be present at this Question Time to discuss this important social issue, about racism, about the terrible expressions this weekend. I think the Prime Minister should be here. Mr President, I would like to ask you, Mr President, to suspend the debate and to contact the Prime Minister, to ask him to come here. I find it really incomprehensible that the Prime Minister is not here himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u5	Mr. Chairman. For now, I find it significant that the Prime Minister is sending another minister, while he has been asked to come to the Chamber to respond to the Chamber's question about the terrible racism we have seen this weekend. I would say: suspend the debate. Give the Prime Minister the chance to correct his mistake and still to speak to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u6	Briefly, Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u7	Mr. Chairman. Also from my party I say that we really miss the moral leadership. We cannot do that here with a replacement, so I support the request to have the Prime Minister come as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u8	Mr. Chairman. I am struggling with this because I do not really think it is a political game that we should put on the wagon here when we want to deal with this serious issue here. So whether that's with a... Mr. Clover, may I have a moment, please? Whether it is a minister who is talking about sport or the Prime Minister, the fact is that we want to speak out as a Chamber because it is horrible what happened in my beautiful city.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u9	Mr. Chairman. Racism is reprehensible and must be combated by every means possible. The Prime Minister is in the walkway. One app should be enough to bring him here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u10	Mr. Chairman. For me, the cabinet speaks with one mouth. Mr Rutte has spoken out in the media, Mr Bruins has spoken out in the media and Minister Grapperhaus has done so. We can do just fine with this excellent Minister for Sport to answer this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u11	I'm gonna take a look... Yes, Mr. Paternotte?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u12	Mr. Chairman. I asked this question to the Prime Minister. I also think he should be here. I called on him to do that, too. I don't know if it makes sense to drag him here and force him to come here, but if we could just see if he has the opportunity, that would be nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u13	Then I'm gonna go...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u14	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u15	Yes, you have said what you have to say, Mr. Clover.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u16	I would like to say that if the Prime Minister says 'no, I think the Minister for Sport should answer these questions', then that is the case and that is what we are dealing with. But it would be nice if he could be here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u17	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u18	Mr. Klaver, you said what you had to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u19	Of course, but colleagues are speaking to us and saying: we can do this with this minister. Before we get the impression that we have something against this minister, I note that this is not a policy issue. This is about leadership. That's why the Prime Minister has to be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u20	Good. You've made your point. It is true that Mrs Van Toorenburg has a point: the cabinet talks with one mouth and the cabinet decides who speaks on behalf of the cabinet. In this case, that's the Minister of Medical Care.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u21	We've had this out of hand twice before. Both times, the Prime Minister finally came to the Chamber as well. He hears this, of course, he realizes his mistake, and he's rushing here to make a statement against racism. He's still standing right outside the room, so a messenger can give him a signal in three steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u22	If the Prime Minister believes that the Minister for Medical Care is the one speaking on behalf of the Cabinet, then we will continue with this Minister. I'm glad to see him here sometime. No, Mr. Asscher! Your message is clear. We're gonna take a look. We're gonna ask first. Then let's move on. We'll suspend for one minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u23	The Prime Minister is on his way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u24	Even though the Prime Minister isn't in the Chamber yet, I'm gonna start anyway. The next item is oral Question Time. The Prime Minister will be coming in any minute. I shall first give the floor to Mr Paternotte on behalf of D66 for his question on racist choirs at a football game.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u25	Mr. Chairman. I would appreciate it if when the Prime Minister comes, he could also deal with my questions so that he can answer them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u26	Yeah, that's definitely gonna happen. Mrs Agema, the following questions are indeed also addressed to Minister Bruins, but he remains here. It's not like the Prime Minister was standing here. He was already gone, but now he's on his way. I hear the Prime Minister's here. Then I'd like to welcome him. It's good to have you back. Mr. Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u27	"K-Black," "k-cotton picker," "k-Black Piet," jungle sounds when he was at the ball. When he made it clear he didn't accept this, Den Bosch's trainer called him "a pathetic little man." Luckily, there was an apology for that later. As gross as racism can be, we saw last Sunday. "This just hurts me a lot," said Mendes Moreira in an impressive interview after the game. "Do I have to accept this in 2019?" "It's exactly that vibrating voice of anger and pain that you speak with when you're racist in your face," said Nadia Ezzeroili about it. Mr. Chairman. This is a fundamental issue. It's wider than just discrimination against a football player. As Gini Wijnaldum also said, the Hitler greeting was also delivered. Discrimination on any ground is prohibited in our country. It is the first article of the Constitution for a reason. That is why I am very pleased that the Prime Minister is here with us. He has already clearly distanced himself from these events. "Awful," he said. But he did question the need for action. Others do. The KNVB has said: we need help. The league coach confirmed that politics is his next move. I understand the Prime Minister is busy with all kinds of issues, from nitrogen to Iraq. He's receiving yellow shirts again today. But this weekend there were hundreds of thousands of Dutch people who felt exactly what Mendes Moreira had to feel: the severe pain of hatred because of your skin colour. So this is about being Prime Minister of all the Dutch. Therefore, because leadership and solutions are being asked and because politics is being looked at, I would like to ask the Prime Minister, when we talk to the yellow hoists, also Mendes Moreira, the KNVB, the union coach and the captain of the Dutch national team, Virgil van Dijk, to send an invitation as soon as possible by fax or courier to talk to each other about how to deal with this big, deeply rooted problem in our country.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u28	I now give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u29	Mr. Chairman. Before I get to that question, I'm gonna say what I just said out here to The World Door, which asked a question about this. I said that to the ANP yesterday. I'm not going to swear, but the images of a footballer in tears going off the field because he's being addressed to something he has nothing to do with and who just wants to make his contribution to this country... That could be about women, about disabled people, about people who are homosexuals or, as in this case, about people with different skin color. If that's the country we live in, we'd better close the place tomorrow. So that's not the country we live in either. I am just saying that yesterday I also told the ANP that the first solution here is to ask ourselves as a society what we can do about it ourselves for 24 hours. Directly pointing to the government and asking whether legislation etc. can be adapted may be necessary. Yes, I agree with the speaker that bringing people together is necessary. That's what we're gonna do. Bruins did. The speaker says: Rutte, join us. I'll go with that. We'll do it together. I agree; that's fine. But I do want us to think with each other for 24 hours or 48 hours: wait a minute, what can we collectively do to stop this kind of behaviour in society and talk to each other about it? I teach at a school where a lot of children or actually only children have no traditional Dutch background. They are also discriminated against. I think that's horrible. I always say to them: I try to make every law that does, because you have every right to be here in this country and every right to be as successful as everyone else; if you do your best, you can become chairman of the Lower House or Mayor of Rotterdam, even if you have a Moroccan background in the third or fourth generation, but I know that on the way you are often confronted with racism and discrimination. It's the stupidest and dumbest thing you can do in a country. You're gonna put talent, people who can do something, that way, behind. It makes us less efficient as a country and does not take advantage of all the talents and opportunities that exist. So it's collectively stupid, it's individually stupid, we shouldn't do it and we should talk to each other about it. Yes, there is also a role of the government. We're gonna get the people together. Grapperhaus is and was already in intensive conversation with the KNVB on these kinds of issues before this terrible event. He just let me know. And again, Bruins had already taken the initiative to come together with all the main players. Again, I'm gonna sit down with that, but I really want to say, please, this is what we are going to do as a government... It is not so that society can say: Cabinet, solve this, or House of Representatives, solve this. I'm not saying the speaker says that. I know he doesn't say that and that he thinks exactly as I do, but let's start by asking ourselves for 48 hours how we address each other on behaviour, on what is unacceptable and on what kind of country we don't want to live in. The children who just sat here, from the questioning of children: what a talent there is, from all intents and purposes, from reformed schools to Islamic schools, from white to black, from man to woman. They're too young to know exactly who they're attracted to, but they'll find out. All these babies have every right to be in this country and be who they want to be. Only then can we remain the coolest country in the world. We are now, but at times like this, we are all deeply ashamed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u30	It's nice that the Prime Minister wants to talk and send an invitation to Mendes Moreira...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u31	It's already been sent, but I'm gonna sit down.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u32	...and that he's gonna be there. I hope that it will soon become clear that he is going to be there, but he is right to say: we are going to think about the reaction. This can also be misunderstood when it comes to looking at politics for a very strong statement. Because Minister Grapperhaus has called on the KNVB to take more concrete action. The KNVB has said: we need help from politics. Minister Bruins has issued a good statement, but he has also made it clear: if there is anything the government can do, I am happy to hear it. So let's see what we're talking about now, because FC Den Bosch's reaction initially indicated what's wrong: it was all misunderstood and the victim was blamed. Later, very clear excuses were made for that, which is good. But that first reaction was so wrong that it indicates that there's something wrong with that culture. That is why my question is whether the cabinet is committed to ensuring that idiots who bring and do the Hitler group in such a stadium can never take another step in such a stadium. Therefore, my question is whether the cabinet is going to ensure that racism is not free. All those clubs that receive subsidies from the government need to know that if they let this happen and let it happen again, they can whistle at those subsidies.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u33	Yes. Of course. But I'm still looking up the discussion. Of course, you can expect from the government, and therefore from me, of us, immediately to find something of it normal. But I also think, and I might say this as liberals among ourselves, that there is a responsibility for the collective here. We cannot solve this as politics alone. I understand 100% of the government is being looked at. I understand one hundred percent that it is said: bring all the main players together, address people and name where things are said foolishly or first reactions are unwise from the club. I agree. But don't have the illusion, guys really, don't have that illusion; I'm telling the whole country that where people are discriminated against, we only solve this with legislation or bring together people. We will solve this only if we say with 17 million people: we will not accept this anymore! It's the only way we're gonna solve this. And that's what I want to radiate here. And that doesn't affect all the things Fathernotte said, but really, it does.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u34	The Prime Minister shouldn't be too small here. Indeed, we have to do this with 17 million Dutch people, but of course there is one Dutchman who can lead the way. Especially when you're asked for leadership, that's the prime minister. That's why it's very good that he's here. I hope next time we don't need those extra minutes to get that done. If many parties see that there is a problem in the Netherlands, if the United Nations reports that the problem of racism in this country is much greater than we thought, then it has something to do with politics. Then it's about setting standards. Then it is to say that we are willing to look at solutions. That is why I think that the statement 'we do not know if measures are needed' is just the wrong one, and that it is better to say: I am going to look for those measures, I am going to talk about them and we are going to take them to make sure that what we can do to eradicate this problem is going to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u35	I agree from a to a, but my point is that if we say that as a political right away, a lot of people in society can think: nice, politics solves this now. Yeah, politics has to fix this. We agree; I think we are now looking for nails on low water. But it's part of that that we keep saying that the only way we can do it is if we talk to each other about this behavior. That's where it starts. If there is discrimination, then it must be said to one another: this is not the country in which we want to live. Then we can and must look at politics to see how we solve this in legislation, how people are brought together and how we standardize it. We need to standardize. Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u36	Talking to each other happened, because the whole country fell over Den Bosch. The club responded and the KNVB responded. But then they say that if we really want to eradicate this and if we want these kind of idiots not even to be able to take a step in the stadium, they need politics. That's why we're being watched.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u37	Of course, it's not the first weekend that this is happening. Unfortunately, this kind of thing happens on a much larger scale at every school. Every little boy named Mohammed who has to apply twice as often before he has an internship place like Piet, every girl named Fatima and has to apply twice as long for an internship like Mieke or Marijke... This is happening in this country. And that's not the country I want to live in. So we need to combat this by means of legislation and standardisation. But the employer who does that, or the employee manager who rejects someone because of her first name and prefers to continue with Marijke than with Fatima, and thus also misses the opportunity to put together a team in which Fatima also has a chance to exploit her talent, must also be corrected by colleagues at that time. I appeal to that too. It goes farther than last Saturday. Saturday was a terrible manifestation of something that is fundamentally wrong in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u38	Thank you, Mr. Paternotte. Then I'll go to Mrs. Marijnissen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u39	I'm a little confused by the Prime Minister's response. We had to pull him extra on his jacket once to show up here. That is painful in itself, but the fact that the Prime Minister is now here in this Chamber saying that he needed to think for a 24-hour period, let it settle for a moment before he could react to the terrible incident in Den Bosch last Sunday, doesn't he think? If something like this happens, such a boy goes crying off the field and the overall feeling in the Netherlands is happy, I would like to say that we do not accept this, and if the foreman of Orange, the union coach and the KNVB stand up and say that they need help, for example in criminal prosecution of these kind of assholes who do this...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u40	And what is the question, Mrs Marijnissen?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u41	Then it is incredible that the Prime Minister here says: yes, I still have 24 hours to think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u42	I didn't say that. No, guys, that's bullshit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u43	Is he willing to help the KNVB shape the criminal prosecution?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u44	I didn't say that at all. Mrs Marijnissen can read that in the Acts. I didn't tell you to think for 24 hours. I said that before we say that we are going to take this and these measures, I think that we should simply take part in this process and ask ourselves how we are going to ensure that people address each other with regard to their behaviour. That's what I said. You're representing my words completely wrong. I didn't say that exactly. I said the opposite.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u45	I am very pleased that my colleague, Mr Paternotte, has brought this up, because I think that sport is now being reduced. It is pointed out very quickly and said: KNVB, solve it! From a meeting last night at NOC*NSF where I spoke with people, I know the signals were already there at the entrance of Saint Nicholas. So my question is whether you are going to investigate why no action has taken place, so that these people did not arrive at the stage anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u46	I need to see if that's up to me or the D.A.'s office. I'm not sure. That's what we're gonna find out. I said we're gonna talk to the KNVB and all the people involved. That was already organized. I think the question is quite right for me to take the lead there myself, so that's what I'm going to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u47	Second question, Mrs Diertens. No? Then I will go to Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u48	The whole tone we're picking in the Chamber with each other now, you might think we're facing each other. But I think it should be very clear that we are on the same page: racism in the Netherlands is not acceptable. But no matter how many times we say that, it still exists. It also seems as if it is sometimes well-spoken. I'm not talking about people here. But when I see the reactions to social media, I say: it can't be! That does raise the question: what's next? I would like the Prime Minister to be very clear that any option for new policies or new legislation can be discussed in order to put an end to this. That's the first thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u49	Yes, then the second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u50	Secondly, Kick Out Zwarte Piet, the action group that has been working for years, was threatened last week. That action group asked for a meeting with the Prime Minister. I know that the Prime Minister is going to have the yellow shirts, for which I pay tribute, because in the Netherlands there is room for action groups to express their concerns at the highest level. Is the Prime Minister also willing to meet Kick Out Black Pete at the Tower?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u51	Well, first of all, I'd like to know more specifically. On that terrible affair in The Hague that Saturday, last week, Grapperhaus immediately responded in the most fierce words. That was the government's reaction. I can't always respond to every incident in person. That's when Grapperhaus responded. Next, Kick Out Zwarte Piet said that the action group also wants a conversation. We're currently analysing exactly what they want. I'll talk to the yellow shirts this afternoon. I'm gonna try to get involved with nature organizations soon. Last week I was with the farmers and with the earthmoving companies. We'll talk to the sports world as soon as possible. So I'm going to try, but I also want to be able to convert policies into legislation and the like from time to time. That's what needs to be done. So I'm gonna do my best. I'm not saying no, but I just want to find out exactly what their question was.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u52	It is incredibly good that the Dutch team has responded. That made a statement: enough is enough. In my opinion, we are in complete agreement with that as a policy. That there should be a conversation with the KNVB is also as clear as what. That's what's gonna happen. My question then is what will be the stakes of that conversation. As far as we are concerned, as far as the CDA is concerned, sanctions are urgently needed. It shouldn't be just protocols. The KNVB has a wonderful protocol, but it has to be translated into harder actions. That means stricter penalties, subtracting points. You should not only deduct points from a club if the budget is not in order, but also in such cases. In the case of racism, this must certainly be the case. Secondly, what do we learn from the incidents abroad? England already has some very good examples. Will the Netherlands follow these good examples in any case?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u53	One. We're gonna plan that conversation. Two. They can do a lot of themselves, of course. That's just a fact. Three. I would particularly like to talk about whether there are any reasons why they are reluctant to apply what they can do and what they need more. I think that's what you're asking, but I put it down for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u54	Second question, Mr. Von Martels.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u55	Indeed, the KNVB must take responsibility for this. 'Cause like I said, it's not gonna do us any good if they just write down protocols.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u56	I think they do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u57	I hope that will be the commitment to that conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u58	I believe that on many points the KNVB simply takes that responsibility. But if we're stuck with them, I'd also like to have a chance to ask: what can you do now, there are reasons why you don't sometimes, what do you do already because they already do a lot of things and what more do you need?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u59	I have visited the KNVB several times to learn, to hear what is happening there. I understand that safety is a very important aspect. I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether the fight against racism, not only in word but also in practice, will be a very important element in the coming years. This Prime Minister has been Prime Minister for almost ten years. It doesn't get any better either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u60	I don't know if there's a causal link there. But maybe Bruins should answer this right away. It has prepared the content of this question. We're in the middle of campaigns, football, et cetera. But maybe Bruno can answer that right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u61	Bruno is the secretary of medical care. Mr Azarkan, second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u62	Then something about moral leadership. The Prime Minister has said before that Mo has to fight himself. I know he said later that this wasn't so convenient. I challenge him to say here, for all those footballers who experience this, for all the people in the housing market and the labour market: "As Prime Minister, I stand before you. I want to do everything I can to ensure that you have a fair chance to participate in society."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u63	It's both true. I stand for everyone in this country who wants to contribute. I say to children who are discriminated against when getting an internship I would like to be able to intervene personally every time this happens. In part, this is also possible by the legislator. There are hotlines and so on. But unfortunately, this is happening. Then all I'm saying to children is, "Please, don't let that stop you. This is a country in which you can eventually achieve anything. I also hate that sometimes it takes you twice as long to get that internship, but please don't let it stop you. Know that I am on your side, that we all, the whole society, the vast majority of the good-willed Netherlands, are on the side of everyone in this country who wants to make something of it."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u64	Thank you to the Prime Minister for coming after all. Thank you also for strongly condemning the terrible racism. But I note that this does not happen until someone who is hit hard by it, Mendes Moreira, has the courage to not pick it up and yet continue to fight, even though he was already put away as a pathetic man. He says here that everyone has to think about what we could do. Then I would point out to him that he does condemn it if it is very excessive. That's what we're expecting. But there are also people who have been asking this cabinet for years to condemn the more subtle forms of racism, which we may not have been aware of yet. Think of Black Piet, for example. But then the cabinet walks away. Is the Prime Minister prepared to say now that he supports the people who are asking for attention and that he listens to what they have to say?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u65	I've been doing that in this job for nine years. I really don't understand the problem. There's a problem with racism. But the problem isn't that politics or I aren't open to that. Of course I do. But there is no point in me making my racist point every Monday morning, apart from what happened. I make it as often as I have to. I did it yesterday in front of the ANP microphone. That's also widespread. I said I hate what happened. Today it was foreseen that Bruins, the Minister for Sport, would be here in Question Time, but the Chamber said she wanted to hear it from me. I'll be here, of course. Then I'll do the same here. I have just done it in front of a number of microphones of programmes that pay attention to it tonight. But I really do not understand where the idea comes from that I, or this cabinet, or the previous cabinet, am not always engaged in combating racism and discrimination. But that's not the end of it. That's exactly my point. That is what we will have to do with each other, and therefore with society as a whole. We need to talk to each other about behavior.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u66	Mrs Ouwehand, second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u67	But the Prime Minister with all his cabinets has convictions on his pants, because the Netherlands is simply doing too little. So he's not gonna succeed. My point is that the Chamber has been asking for some time now whether the cabinet will listen to those who point to the more subtle forms of racism, which we were not aware of yet. Think of Black Pete. And then the Prime Minister walks away. Then he says, "That's not my call." He says here that we all need to think about what we can do ourselves and that we need to take 48 hours. In 1987, Gerda Havertong in Sesame Street already made it clear that Black Piet hurts. 30 years later, the Prime Minister is still running away from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u68	And the question is, Mrs. Ouwehand?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u69	Last week I asked Minister Grapperhaus:...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u70	Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u71	...do you support the people who were harassed during their meeting? There's no way the Cabinet's gonna be involved in any of that. I think the Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u72	Mrs. Ouwehand! I'm really gonna step in. Every time it gets out of hand. Oral Question Time is from 2 p.m. to 3 p.m. That means the questioner has four minutes. Those who have supplementary questions have 30 seconds. Everyone's going over that. This also means that other questions are less addressed. So I appeal to you, but also to others. I've just had the childhood questioning, and those kids did an excellent job. Really.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u73	She's got a point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u74	She has a point, but the Prime Minister has to answer this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u75	No, Mrs Ouwehand, you have already asked a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u76	I'll get the question out. First of all, I didn't say 48 hours of thinking. I have said that before it is said that politics must resolve this, I think we should also look at each other. Yes, politics has a role to play. Convening power, bringing people together. All the key players and all the systems in the Chamber and make sure you discuss what else needs to happen, which I just told the CDA. What's up? What more do you need? If there are things you can do, are there any reasons why you don't do them and can we help with that? Secondly, standardize. I did the same yesterday and other members of the cabinet did the same. Specifically on Piet, my position is as follows and I have put it here more often. This is a tradition that is changing in the Netherlands. That is as always with traditions in the Netherlands, that is gradual. That's what's happening right now. That Piet is discoloring in all kinds of regions in this country. It is also part of social traditions that they change over time. The Meertens Institute has done a wonderful research on it and it also works that way. Then you should be careful not to dictate as a government what that Piet looks like and that you're going to set up a children's party in a law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u77	Good. Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u78	Mr. Chairman. On the SGP side, support for the direction taken and advocated by the Prime Minister. Racism is out of the question. Think carefully about what we can do as politicians in this area. My question is about the fact that racism got a face here, which has had a big impact, but that there has also been the Hitler greeting, which may not have been a clear face but which also affects people. Is this point also fully taken into account in all these discussions?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u79	Of course. That's all equally horrible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u80	Second question, Mr. Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u81	This was a quick answer, anyway. My second question is: is it now being said with speed whether there are things that can be followed up? If someone brings Hitler's greetings, they can't accept that either. So can we be clear about it soon? That's how you make an act.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u82	The prosecution, as I am told here, has already announced a number of investigations. It's gonna have to be in the DA's office for a while. As for your first point on the Hitler Greetings, any form of discrimination and racism is terrible. A Hitler greeting is of course a terrible abject, just like the abject is what was called to Moreira. That's terrible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u83	Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u84	It is precisely a year ago that we were here in Question Time because the entry into the Chamber of Commerce was ruined by toxic racism. The Prime Minister said crazy people on both sides. I asked him to invite the people who are in pain when the saint comes, who are discriminated against and called upon for Piet. He didn't do that. No one expects this Prime Minister to make sure that racism disappears. What I do expect of him and what we can expect in this country is that he's doing his best, that he's showing that he cares. And I know he cares. It's a lack of moral leadership. Step forward. Don't wait and see. Speak up. Today it's happening. But also at the awkward moments I expect a Prime Minister of the Netherlands not to first point out politics but to step forward to stand up for every Dutchman who is discriminated against. That is my question to the Prime Minister. Are you willing to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u85	Absolutely, and I've been doing that for nine years. If that is not enough in Mr Asscher's eyes, then I have to reflect on it, but it is my goal, for nine years, to wherever people in this country are for whatever reason. feeling maybe part of a minority... I actually hate that whole word "minority." There is just a large majority and that is everyone in this country who is of good will and wants to make something of it. Then it doesn't matter what sex, what sexual orientation or skin color you have or where you originally come from. I don't care about that at all. Everyone here has their contribution to make. You also know that if the mix of talents works well not only at individual level but also at group level, as a country you are also unbeatable. Apart from the fact that racism is stupid, it is also stupid once that we also collectively fail ourselves. So at all possible levels, I'm trying to condemn this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u86	It is good that this cabinet is against racism and that it is strongly condemned. At the same time, unfortunately, we are dealing with anti-Semitism. Anti-Semitism is part of racism. That's racism, too. Unfortunately, I have to say that anti-Semitism is becoming more and more common. That's not good. That is why I urge this cabinet to speak out against anti-Semitism and to include it in the actions that are being launched.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u87	Of course, absolutely. Grapperhaus, the Minister of Justice, has been working on this recently. We also have regular contact with these communities about what is happening there. I also have my own contacts. I hate it when that happens. To exclude, separate and ridicule any form of people is unacceptable. We should not eventually create a culture in which that is normal. We have seen this culture in fascism in the 1930s, or in front of Jewish people over the centuries. In the Netherlands we have also seen it in other minorities, in Catholic and Protestant minorities. Now we see it in front of people who came here in the 1960s or 1970s, first from countries in Europe, such as Spain and Portugal, and then from countries like Turkey and Morocco. To say on the basis of all kinds of characteristics "you are inferior" and not to fight that as a society would be unacceptable. But that applies to all these forms of excrement, which are morally wrong. They are unacceptable not only at individual level, but also at collective level: they make this country less strong, because then we do not use all the talents and opportunities we have to deal with each other. I'm still proud of that, too, to tell those kids that we live in a country where, fortunately, you can still achieve anything. We must ensure that they do not suffer from this kind of nonsense on the road or as little as possible. That is the task we collectively have. This is not only possible with legislation; we must also address each other with regard to that behaviour.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-2.u88	Thank you.
