ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-13.u1	The next item is the VAO Crimes in youth care institutions. I give the floor to Mrs Westerveld van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-13.u2	Mr. Chairman. I have three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas young people often stay in institutions for a longer period of time;]] [[Whereas in order to "grow up as much as possible at home" the own room in an institution should also be a nice and safe place;]] [[noting that the facilities in many institutions are outdated, with sometimes small and cold rooms, thin and widely used mattresses and old furniture;]] [[Calls on the Government, together with young people, to make a list of wishes on minimum facilities in relation to their own room, the right to activities on and outside the group and contact with family and friends;]] [[invites the government to then consult with youth care institutions on how to implement this wish list,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Westerveld. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31839-646]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-13.u3	I feel very much for Mrs Westerveld that the feeling of home is very important. I also see that that feeling of home is far from everywhere. But does Mrs Westerveld advocate a central list, which may be compiled in consultation with young people, but which then has the Ministry and where inspectors are sent out to check whether the square metres are correct? Because that seems like unnecessary bureaucracy. Nor would that do justice to the rightful question you are asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-13.u4	I would actually be more than happy with a list where you simply regulate the minimum facilities very clearly in legislation. But I am also aware that this is impossible and that it can also create unnecessary bureaucracy. That is why I call for a wish list. I would like the Minister to talk with young people, for example, young people from the Forgotten Child, but we all know more organisations and more young people who would like to have a voice on this. Then it could be all kinds of things. I have already spoken about this with young people myself. Then the Minister himself could talk to institutions about the question: how can we ensure that the room in which a young person sometimes sits for months is really nice, is really a safe place? So I'm not arguing for a list that we're going to establish legally. However, I would argue that the Minister should talk to young people, and then with institutions, so that facilities could be arranged much better in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-13.u5	However sympathetic the intention is, I think you are ignoring the fact that youth care institutions need to talk to young people in order to be able to deliver tailor-made work in a safe home environment. If Mrs Westerveld orders the minister to do so, the field is not going to do it. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Als ik mevrouw Westerveld goed hoor, zou ik eigenlijk meer de instellingen en de gemeentes die inkopen opdragen om dit gesprek te voeren en daar vorm aan te geven.]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-13.u6	Then you come to the problem of decentralisation, because we are not going to discuss what municipalities and institutions agree with each other. That's why I'm asking the Minister if he wants to have that conversation. I would like to ask all kinds of extra cases to municipalities. In any case, I would very much like municipalities to look at what is best for young people, including in terms of facilities. But that's not what we're talking about. I think it would be very good if we first of all realised that in many places facilities are outdated. We had that conversation with young people from Het Vergeten Kind, in which young people said that they often sleep on very thin mattresses. One of the kids said she even got back pain because they were such bad mattresses. Those are things that I don't think we want to have with each other. I'm open to any solution, but it has to work eventually. That's why I'm filing the motion this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-13.u7	You continue with two motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-13.u8	Yes, that's right, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it has been scientifically proven that the treatment of young people is more effective if they themselves have a say;]] [[Whereas Article 4.1.3 of the Youth Act states that a plan must be tailored to the needs of young people and parents;]] [[Whereas the Youth Act also states that the institutions have the task of informing young people about their rights;]] [[Whereas young people themselves often indicate that they do not have a say in their own treatment process and are often not sufficiently informed about their rights;]] [[calls on the Government to make arrangements with young people and youth care institutions to ensure, in line with the Youth Act, that young people also have a say in their treatment pathway and are adequately informed about their rights;]] [[calls on the Government to invite the AKJ and the inspection to pay particular attention to this issue when visiting young people and institutions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Westerveld and Mr Kuik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31839-647]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-13.u9	And one final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that several action plans on youth have been drawn up, but that there is no financial basis;]] [[noting that it is not always clear what the implementation of these action plans will cost in practice and who will pay for it;]] [[Whereas in order to make these action plans a success, the financial picture must be clear;]] [[calls on the Government to make a financial transfer of the action plans and to indicate how the action plans are financed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Westerveld and Mr Kuik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31839-648]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-13.u10	Mr. Chairman. In general consultation, I asked for the report of the survey on deficits and volume growth in municipalities. That report has now come out and the first amounts have come out: 350 million one-off and 190 million structural. This does not outweigh the at least 420 million that can be explained by volume growth. I would like a response from the Minister. I have two motions. I am particularly concerned about the position of large youth care institutions, some of which are now in danger of falling over. This could have a major impact on the young people who are being cared for there. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that several youth care institutions are currently facing financial difficulties;]] [[Whereas, in the event of a sudden closure of large youth care institutions, many young people need to be transferred to other institutions to ensure their safety and to continue caring for them;]] [[noting that some youth care institutions are qualifying as too big to fail;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate these youth care institutions and their financial health, and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Chicken. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31839-649]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-13.u11	Mr. Chairman. I also drew attention to the large number of transfers. One of the reasons is that many young people are placed together by age. I think we should see if we can break that. That's why a motion on a growth model of living groups. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, within the current model, young people residing in a youth care institution are divided into so-called living groups, which are categorized by age;]] [[noting that the consequence of this classification is that young people have to change groups every number of years;]] [[Whereas the continuous relocation of young people to different groups does not contribute to stability and the opportunity for young people to develop, make friends and lead as normal a life as possible;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibilities for a growth model,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Chicken. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31839-650]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-13.u12	Thank you, Mr President. There are very big problems in youth care, and that is clear from two things: the fact that the trade unions have given an ultimatum to this minister that actions will follow if she does not make money, and the appeal from the municipalities last week, that they are considering returning the task of the youth care they received in 2015 to this minister if there is no more money for youth care. Those are very serious threats, threats. I hope the Minister will take this seriously and I hope he will respond today. I would like to put forward two motions to deal with the problems of youth care. The first one is about the youth ggz. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that medical care is paid under the Health Insurance Act;]] [[noting that the decentralisation of mental health care for young people has put pressure on access to this care and its financing;]] [[Considering that since 2015 specialised institutions and free-standing specialists have had to negotiate with dozens if not hundreds of municipalities, which has significantly increased administration and bureaucracy;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether the Youth-Ggz can be paid under the Health Insurance Act without failing to cooperate between district teams and the Youth-Ggz, and to inform the Chamber in the autumn,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Hijink and Westerveld. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31839-651]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-13.u13	D66 also considers the youth ggz to be a very important subject. We have had a lot of discussions on this subject over the last two years, including with this Minister. Last June, the Minister finally promised to examine the whole system of youth ggz intensively. Now comes that investigation, which is also stated in several Chamber letters in June or July and so we are one month away from the coming of that very large investigation. Nevertheless, Mr Hijink is again tabling a motion in favour of a subsequent investigation. In fact, I would like to ask Mr Hijink if it is not wise to wait now for what is coming out of that investigation and hold this motion for a moment, and then look further.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-13.u14	I'm okay with always looking into things. I'm just listening to what I hear from the people who work in youth care and what I hear from congregations. They say things are about to go completely wrong right now. I'm fine with the Minister investigating that. I hope that he will include this proposal in such investigations, so that we may be able to get a full picture next month. So let's turn it around. In particular, let him take this motion. Um, how do you say that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-13.u15	Take over.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-13.u16	Take over, for all I care, so we can get started with that. Look, I'm not saying that it's expressly not in the motion that it should leave the municipalities right now, paf. I'm not suggesting that. I'm just saying, look now, given all the problems there are, if it wouldn't be much smarter to take the youth ggz away from the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-13.u17	I certainly have sympathy with the idea and I share many of Mr Hijink's concerns, but we have therefore also asked the Minister to carry out a very detailed investigation into it, and that investigation is almost there now. I can already tell you that I cannot support this motion, while you, as a representative of the people, will also be looking for a majority in this House. So I don't understand why we can't wait a month. Then we can all read that research properly and then we can see how we're gonna fix it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-13.u18	Mr Raemakers can very well support this motion. He doesn't have to take it so hard. He can simply say that there will be an investigation by the Minister and that the SP is now proposing an additional investigation to see if the youth ggz actually belongs to the municipalities. I think this is a very justified question that has arisen in recent years. So let's see that question answered next month.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-13.u19	I have a question for the SP for clarification. When I hear your story, I'm thinking bipolar disorders, anorexia, and you name it. A large part of the youth ggz is actually care of dyslexia and adhd, and slight guidance of people with autism. Can you give a reflection on that? Are you considering getting all that out of the Youth Act, or should I be more nuanced?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-13.u20	It seems logical to me that the municipality has an important role to play in helping families with debt or other problems in a family. But where there is a clear medical problem, perhaps the municipality should not discuss it. If you break your leg, you can just go to the hospital. That's what the health insurance company pays for. It is very strange that there is an exception when it comes to medical care, and that is the youth ggz. Oddly enough, the adult ggz is not with the municipality either, but with the health insurance company. You can just go there through the insurance company. It is strange that an exception is made for the youth-ggz. Children in need of specialist psychological assistance do not receive them because the municipality makes or has to make a different choice on the basis of financial considerations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-13.u21	I just can't have that last one. So that should be solved. The point is, of course, that it's all medical. We may wonder if any diagnosis add is correct, but if it is correct, it is a brain disorder. That's very bad, but that's true. That is why I do not think I can support your motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-13.u22	Well, we're done with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-13.u23	You had another motion you'd like to file?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-13.u24	Sure, I have 31 seconds to do that, so that's gonna work fine. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that municipalities have significant financial deficits in the youth care budget;]] [[Whereas this is a direct result of the savings of EUR 450 million by the previous government and the additional need for youth care as a result of decentralisation;]] [[calls on the government to meet the demands of unions and the youth care sector and to release additional budget to reverse the €450 million cut and to meet the additional costs incurred by municipalities due to rising demand for care,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Hijink and Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31839-652]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-13.u25	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-13.u26	Thank you, Mr President. I'll check the motions in the order of entry. One question has been asked by Mrs. Kuik. It's related to the last motion of the SP, so I'll answer that. The motion in part No. 646 calls on the government to make a list of young people's wishes on minimum facilities and then to consult with youth care institutions on how to achieve this wish list. I understand where that motion came from. By the way, a large part of the young people in the closed youth care are really fine in their place where they are. On work visits I find very nice locations. But I also come across locations that I think could be arranged a little more when it comes to: does this feel like home? I actually understand what Mrs Westerveld means. However, I find the request a little curious to get to work on it in this order. Firstly, we are the legislative body here. We have already settled in the law that there should be a client council, where every institution is obliged to have this type of conversation. Secondly, the inspection visits all youth care institutions and certainly the closed youth care institutions. She always has conversations with clients herself. This results in an inspection report on the subject of an institution's mandate. I don't like the order of things if I started now with a wish list of individual young people. I will not be there tomorrow to make sure that is done. That's really something that needs to happen in a location. The inspection shall monitor that location and also monitor compliance with the law. Honestly, I think I'd sit in the wrong chair if I embraced this motion. That's why I'm going to dissuade them, although I understand their background.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-13.u27	The motion in part No. 646 is not recommended. Mrs. Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-13.u28	I just got an app from one of the young people who thought along with me during this debate. She apprehended me that she would have loved to have a clock. Even those are sometimes not present at institutions. I often hear stories like that from young people: no clock, no music, sometimes no notebook, very small rooms; I just mentioned it. If this is not done properly, the question is, of course, what should the inspection monitor? We have not arranged anything about minimum facilities that young people are entitled to, so there is nothing to be monitored by the inspection. I'd like to give you one more thing. I do not really care how we do this, but I would like to point out that there are not enough facilities in many places and that there are not enough activities. I would like us to acknowledge that and do something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-13.u29	I don't think Mrs Westerveld expects me to sit around the table with every individual young person in the Youth Plus and ask: what would you have liked in your room? That is simply not the work of a minister or the work of a Member of Parliament. That's just not what we need to do in this place. What has to be done, of course, is that young people feel at home. We've arranged a few things for that. One of the things we've arranged for that is, for example, setting up a client council. That's just a legal obligation. The inspection doesn't just show up empty-handed. Of course, it will come along on the basis of the standards framework of the inspection. They have a separate standard framework for the Youth Care Plus. This is about a pedagogical climate that requires you to feel safe and at home. That certainly offers an opportunity to have that conversation. They also speak young people separately. They will then check whether young people's wishes are adequately met. In addition, we are working on the renewal of closed youth care. We have talked about this throughout the debate. This also offers a way of making this educational environment particularly discussable. Frankly, I think a lot is happening, but we should leave the roles and responsibilities in the right place. It is institutions and location directors themselves who shape the youth care at that location.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-13.u30	Mrs Westerveld, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-13.u31	So we see in practice that this is not happening in a number of places. For example, I am very much in favour of strengthening the rights of the Client Council, but it cannot at the moment enforce minimum facilities in an institution. The same applies to the inspection. I understand Mrs Tielen's sentiment. She said we shouldn't make lists. But if we don't have lists, the inspection won't be able to check for anything either. That's what's wrong now. That's why I suggested working with a wish list. But the minister says that everything is happening, and he refers to the client council. In this way we are in a circle with each other and there are still no minimum facilities for young people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-13.u32	I disagree. What we do with this is leave the conversation at the place where that conversation should be held and where the questions can also be answered, namely at that location. It's not like we're setting up locations from the Ministry. Mrs Westerveld doesn't want that either. We have made a conscious choice for the decentralisation of care for a reason. I believe that GroenLinks also made that choice. In doing so, we have left that responsibility on the board of the municipalities. Municipal councils check their aldermen. Then, of course, we have the institutions themselves, which shape the care. Legislation lays down framework conditions and regulates supervision, but the idea that you visit every individual location at such a level of detail with a checklist or a wish list to check whether the checks are being complied with does not, in my opinion, prejudice the distribution of responsibility there is. In my view, this also wrongs the opportunities that exist at the very level of location to provide for this in individual cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-13.u33	No, Mrs Westerveld, I see that you want to respond again, but unfortunately I will not allow that. There are still a lot of motions that need to be judged. Mrs Agema also has a question on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-13.u34	I can't quite follow the Minister. On my initiative at some point the Law Baz, the principle law for the health care institutions, came. It was initially included in the Wlz before, well, D66 and GroenLinks broke it out of the law and placed it in an AMvB. That is a principle law for healthcare institutions. What are the principles, what are the right of residence if you reside in an institution? Why wouldn't it be possible to organise something like this in the Youth Act with an AMvB?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-13.u35	Technically, I think it would be possible, but I think it would be unwise to choose. You make it appear in the first place as if from here you can determine nationally what would be best in all those individual situations. Secondly, do you then pretend that a location manager, the staff in such a location and young people themselves in such institutions could not come to that conversation together, to look at: how do I feel and feel safe and at home? The fact that you have a educational environment in which you feel safe and at home is part of the supervisory framework. That's what the inspection checks. We have also said that this educational environment deserves attention, especially when it comes to a too repressive climate in a number of Youth Care Plus institutions. In short, there is work to be done; we know that and we are committed to it. But we are not doing it in the form of asking the question to individual young people at national level what they would have liked to have, and then sending someone, for example the inspection, with a checklist. I don't think that's the way we have to work in healthcare.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-13.u36	The motion in part No. 647.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-13.u37	In the motion in part No. 647 the government is invited to make arrangements with young people and youth care institutions, in line with the Youth Act, to ensure that young people are also involved in practice in their treatment process, and to request the AKJ and the inspection to pay particular attention to this issue when visiting institutions. Look, it's happening. I have also explained to you in general consultation that the inspection is actually investigating all the Youth Services Plus sites and that this will be ready for the summer. But we just had a discussion, and we think that it should come to a good and liveable setting in a conversation between the employees and the young people in such a location. Of course, there has to be that kind of participation. So I can actually follow it up to ask the inspection and the AKJ for some extra attention; that's fine with me. So I would like to leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. In the motion in part No. 648 the government is invited to make a financial transfer of the action plans and to indicate how the action plans are financed. You are referring to the approach of closed youth care. So perhaps you are referring to the approach that we will be discussing in general tomorrow about family homes. I have already promised you that the implication of the costs... I'm looking at Mrs. Chicken, but that must be Mrs. Westerveld. Excuse me. I have already explained in general consultation that the implication of the costs involved is partly to be borne by the programme costs. I also said that the department wears them. That's all you need in project management to implement that program or project. Two is that it will be about costs included in the regular funding. The municipalities receive full funding for youth care. Part of this is closed youth care. What we need to do is to redesign the supply of closed youth care at regional level. This will in principle be done within the resources made available for this purpose. If you're interested in what that could cost, I think I can reflect that about at the implementation stage of the plan. That's what I promised you. I have also promised you that if we reflect these costs, I will be more than willing to make those costs known to you. But it's unfeasible to run all the way to the level of each individual location nationwide. That is not necessary either, because it is not up to us to make that type of choice. This type of choice is being made in the youth care regions. Nevertheless, this type of cost is found in the implementation phase. I'll get a picture of it to you, too. I already promised. That is why I think I would like to see this motion as superfluous and would therefore like to discourage it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-13.u38	The motion in part No. 648 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-13.u39	The Minister interprets the motion a little more freely than I intended her to. I mean that if we get an action plan from the Minister, whether or not he makes it with the field, I would like to see an overview on the last page of what those actions cost and who is going to pay what. In the previous action plan that came to the Chamber or at least that I read, we see that the Minister makes all kinds of arrangements with a lot of players in the field. Then we hear from a number of institutions, a number of partners who have signed up, that they are going to the Members of Parliament to ask: do you then arrange the money? Apparently, they do not know exactly what is going on with the budget. In this way it becomes very unclear for us too. I would like to see a more detailed calculation of how much it is going to cost and who is going to pay for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-13.u40	But we've already had that conversation. If you receive a programme from me, you will always see a financial paragraph in it indicating the additional programme costs that will be released and also what will be financed from the regular funding. The program (Ont) Regulal de Zorg, the program Full life, the program Unlimited participation, the program Care for the Youth et cetera; all programs also have a financial section in which the costs are clarified. Part of it is that program costs you make, just to be able to do at all what you imagine to do and get actions going. And of course, part of it is always paid from the regular funding system. If you want to make care better, that is the concern that is already there and is already being paid for. This is about me not typing my knees under the desk in the department into an approach closed youth care. I have just asked municipalities and Youth Care Netherlands to take an approach to this; we have not devolved care for nothing. Of course, we have helped with that. In fact, we paid the project management to implement that approach. We have also debated this with each other. During that debate, I also explained to you that part of the costs that will then have to be incurred, namely the redesign of the care landscape when it comes to closed youth care, will simply be within the regular budget. By the way, a large part will be less expensive. When you say "less residential care," it usually gets cheaper. Then you're gonna have to make some transition costs at the most. In addition, there are project costs. I said we'd take care of it. You said: I want as much insight as possible. I said that that insight comes at the moment when we make an implementation plan that is part of this approach. That probably won't be at the level of detail you'd like. But as far as that goes, I would like to inform you of that. I'll do it a little bit more succinctly, Mr. Chairman. But I therefore advise against this motion. Then the motion to part No. 649. It calls on the government to carry out a study on financial health. I don't recommend that motion, but actually because of the word "research." Because what I would very much like to commit to Mrs. Kuik is this. I am currently discussing many measures with the UNG, some of which we have already taken and some of which I would like to take. In addition, we will do what Mrs. Kuik wants. We know that a number of institutions, certainly of a certain size, are in severe financial difficulties, and we also know that this has to do with a rather fragmented clientship over several municipalities and the need for some larger institutions to be able to go to a municipality as well. I'm currently making appointments around early warning, so you know early whether an institution is in financial heavy weather. Two. We have introduced the phenomenon of a governing municipality: for institutions of a certain size, a municipality must be the first point of contact. We have a number of actions under way from the youth authority, which has taken over the responsibility of the transition authority. I think it would be good if I mapped out what measures we are taking at the moment. I believe that this will be quicker, and I think that this will give you a better picture than an examination of 6,000 parties, apart from the fact that it is not so easy to design such an investigation. But I understand Mrs. Chicken's concerns very well. I am in the process of organizing measures to that end.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-13.u41	Then I'll hold the motion. When will we get that overview of these measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-13.u42	I am going to give an outline of this at the next progress report, which is due in June at the latest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-13.u43	At Mrs Kuik's request, I propose her motion (31839, No. 649). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-13.u44	The motion in part No. 650 is about the growth model living groups. It invites the government to investigate. May I explain the motion in such a way that I am actually asking this question to the Netherlands Youth Services and the inspection, so instead of asking them what possibilities and what need would there be to ensure that sometimes there is categorization and sometimes not, and the phenomenon of living groups is decreasing, because people actually believe in more family-oriented size? Fortunately, you can also see that the number of examples of family-oriented size is increasing. So if I may explain this motion in such a way that I would like to present it for reflection to Youth Care Netherlands and the inspection, I would like to leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-13.u45	That's how the Minister can explain the motion. I am also in favour of family homes, which we are going to talk about in detail tomorrow, but we have not yet reached that stage. So in the meantime, you have to see how, if that's one of the causes, you can break that. That's how I see the motion. Then she can get into a mood.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-13.u46	The motion in part No. 650 gets judgment, Room. The motion in part No. 651.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-13.u47	I'm deceiving the motion in part No. 651. The motion calls on the government to examine whether the youth-ggz can be paid under the Health Insurance Act without undermining the cooperation between district teams and youth-ggz and to inform the Chamber in the autumn. What you would do with that, if you went that way, is to reverse some of the decentralisation. Yes, Mr Hijink will say that, as I would like to say, because that seems to me to be a sensible idea. But that seems really unwise to me. Procedural argument is the investigation that has indeed been mentioned by Mr Raemakers. I expect that research before the summer and then we can have the debate on it. But a substantive argument not to want this is that it would really be a step back in time. If, for example, we look at the debate on closed youth care, why is it that, fortunately, it is increasingly possible to integrate youth-ggz into youth-plus care? Because of that responsibility of the municipalities. They are jointly responsible. Why is it that the integration of youth-ggz into the neighbourhood teams is getting better and better? Because of the one responsibility of the municipality. What was the observation prior to decentralisation? That because of all these divisions and all those separate responsibilities, the real cooperation never came about between the different areas of youth care: J&D, the youth-ggz and the LVB-care. There is still a lot of work to be done, we know that, but since decentralisation, we have seen very nice new examples of integration of this offer. You also see single ggz, but the route of the GP also remains open. So I do not see how the reversal of decentralisation on this point could be an improvement on the practice which is gradually beginning to move in that direction. That would be a real shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-13.u48	This is the reality of this minister. It has just been said in the debate: there are good examples, it is moving in the right direction in many places. But at the same time we hear the opposite of youth psychiatrists, of municipalities, of administrators and of young people themselves who have to do with the fact that things are not moving in the right direction at all. That is precisely why I do not say: go, take it away from the municipalities at once, but check whether the Minister's story is correct, or whether the story is true of all the experts we hear. Examine it and conclude it more than what is wise for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-13.u49	In doing so, Mr Hijink is nevertheless failing to make his own motion. This motion indeed calls for an investigation, but with a rather clear pre-sorting on what could be the outcome of the investigation, namely that it is paid under the Health Insurance Act. What is of course nice is the enthusiasm in this motion of the SP for health insurance companies. I hope that Zorgverzekerings Nederland listens to this debate, the cake goes on the table there because even the SP is now enthusiastic about the health insurance companies. Seriously, I think you're sending the wrong signal to the sector. You'd make it sound like going back to the old days is a solution to today's problems. In the past, it was precisely because we have chosen decentralisation, and the promise that it had in it is still far from being fulfilled. I very much agree with Mr Hijink. There is still an incredible amount of work to be done, but going back to the past is certainly not a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-13.u50	Back to the past is always said by rulers who have no further arguments. Then it's back to the old days if you're suggesting something other than what the minister wants. If the Minister proposes to house it in the form of a national health fund without the insurers, then be my guest, we are going to settle it better tomorrow than with insurers. I am not asking you to do this now; I am asking you to examine the reality of the minister I do not find in many places in the light of the reality of the stories we hear from experts, young people and youth psychiatrists, who say exactly the opposite. They say it was a historic mistake to place the youth-ggz at the municipality. I think it would be wise to start checking at some point whether that was such a smart decision. That's all this motion requires.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-13.u51	Finally, the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-13.u52	We've had an evaluation of the Youth Act. In addition, this did not come up. Mr Raemakers said at that time that there was a need for more precise zooming in on the ggz and I promised Mr Raemakers an action study. That research is in conclusion, at least I know it will come before the summer. I will send it to the Chamber at that time, and it seems to me that at that time we will be able to draw up the mid-term review of the functioning of the youth ggz and the extent to which the promise has been or has not been fulfilled. I am not avoiding that substantive debate, in fact, I am facilitating it with the research that Mr Raemakers has asked for. I cannot go around the wording chosen by Mr Hijink himself in his motion asking him to examine whether the youth-ggz can be paid under the Health Insurance Act. That was so before 2015, hence my statement that it would be back to the past. It is precisely a statement of substance, because with this decentralisation we have removed divisions that have always been regarded as problematic in all investigations, even in the parliamentary investigation report that the Chamber itself has produced. The entire Chamber always came to the conclusion in all its breadth: remove the divisions between these different forms of youth care. We have done so, but with that the promise has not yet been fully fulfilled; I see that as well. But what you should at least say is that going back to a situation where those bulkheads are again not a solution to today's problems. If bureaucracy is a problem, let's deal with that bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-13.u53	May I interrupt the gentlemen? We are not going to conduct the debate so extensively here. This is a VAO.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-13.u54	Mr President, I believe...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-13.u55	I think it is clear that the Minister's assessment of this motion in part No. 651 has given and the motion dissuade. There's another motion left.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-13.u56	Yeah, that's the motion in part no. 652 by Mr Hijink and Mrs Agema, which combines with Mrs Kuik's question. This motion calls on the government to meet the demands of the youth services unions to reverse the 450 million cut from the previous cabinet period. During the last period, many articles have been in the newspaper on this subject, also following the open letter from the VNG you have taken note of and on which you have asked for a response. That's the reaction you received yesterday. Taking into account what the President has just said, I do not think that, in the context of this VAO on the AA that we have had, we can talk exhaustively enough about the results of these investigations. You have previously asked Mrs Kuik to remind us of this in the AO: give us those investigations, even if there is no policy response yet. I had some hesitation in that, you saw, but I did. I sent those investigations to the Chamber. Two. You asked me last week: give us a response to the VNG's open letter. I sent you that response. What you didn't see in there are two things. One. The numbers that are part of the Spring Note. Two. The substantive agreements we have to deal with. I firmly believe that what is happening is what is happening. Yes, of course, the cabinet has municipalities to meet the financial concerns that municipalities have so that municipalities are able to fulfil their legal mandate. That's one side of the story. But it's en-and, that's what I wrote in the letter. It will also have to be accompanied by substantive agreements. If you see that providers suffer from this increased bureaucracy, money is not the solution. If you see that there are great differences in how municipalities organise youth care and that providers suffer from the size of these differences, then money is not the solution. If you see that a lot of providers have been added and that there is room for improvement in the management and direction of municipalities, then money is not the solution. In short, it will always have to be and-and, as well as money and substantive agreements. I'm still talking to the municipalities about that. Financial decision-making is part of the spring decision-making process, so I expect to be able to inform you of this by a few weeks. I will not hesitate to inform the Chamber another day if we can communicate money and agreements to the Chamber so that we can have the debate on this, because I think it is good to have that debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-13.u57	I find it very strange that the Minister states here that we should not anticipate things, which we have discussed in general consultation. I did say on behalf of my group that there should be enough money and that the Minister should negotiate with the Spring Paper. But we read in the paper that 350 million will be available. My question to the Minister is whether that is true and whether he can confirm that this is not enough. Can he confirm that it's actually a cockfight between him and Minister Hoekstra about who is actually the crown prince of the CDA? Mr. Hoekstra wants to be a little economical as a finance minister, so it's going to be 350 million or a little less. And here we have the minister who is vice prime minister at the same time and who is fishing behind the net with too little money for youth care, because that is the way it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-13.u58	I think it is a very interesting reflection of Mrs Agema, found original too. The money is, of course, part of the spring decision-making process, which comes out at the end of May. Numbers you read in the newspaper, I don't confirm, if only because that conversation is about the money and the substantive agreements we make. I have just told you that as soon as I get there, I will inform you so that we can have the debate at that time. We cannot now have this debate on the basis of every piece of information you receive through the newspaper.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-13.u59	Do I understand that the Minister says that the 350 million is wrong and that there can still be a price on the table that is cost-effective? If he responds with a yes and there may be a cost-covering rate, I will of course support him wholeheartedly in his crown princeials. Otherwise, I'm going for Crown Princess Mona Keijzer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-13.u60	I will be happy to pass that on to my good colleague, Mona Keijzer. She'll receive it in enthusiasm, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-13.u61	I ask the Minister not to be challenged.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-13.u62	I corrected myself, chairman, and went to the content of the question. I don't confirm numbers. I confirm that we are talking to congregations, including following the open letter they have sent, about both the money and the substantive agreements that go with it, because it will always be en-en. With money alone, you can't improve youth care, really.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-13.u63	It has now taken about a year, a year, to get this minister to acknowledge at all that there is a financial problem in youth care. A year. And now we've come to the point where municipalities say they're threatening to send the whole child care system back to the minister. We are so far away that the sector says: we are revolting. The unions say that we are going to take action because it is in danger of becoming a mess under his reign.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-13.u64	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-13.u65	And now this minister is still afraid to comment on the money that needs to be added to make up for the cuts in youth care. I really can't imagine anything about dealing with an entire sector that is in danger of falling apart.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-13.u66	Mr. Hijink, I'm sorry to interrupt, but you know that this subject is on the agenda again at the end of this month. In view of the planning of this plenary session, we are talking about the motion for a resolution tabled by you, Mr President, I would like to ask you to be very brief. Then we can complete this VAO.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-13.u67	Yes, but of course Mrs Agema has a point. If figures can be leaked in the newspaper about EUR 300 million and what they would be available and we cannot say anything about it and the Minister does not want to talk about it, then the figures are in the newspaper. Rara, how did they get into a newspaper? We are allowed to ask questions about that, aren't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-13.u68	I understand your annoyance. I just think that this VAO is not the right time to talk about it widely today. We know that we will have a debate on this at the end of this month, because hopefully these figures will be known. That's all I want to give you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-13.u69	I am concerned about this and I would like to have the Minister's commitment to express his concerns and to tell the municipalities, the trade unions, all those people who work in youth care and the young people who depend on youth care that he will not abandon them and that he will not send them into the field with a few crumbs because he does not dare to draw the wallet. And that while last year there was EUR 11 billion left over from the government budget. And now no money can be found to help the most vulnerable young people in our country. I want that commitment from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-13.u70	I believe that Mr Hijink does not do justice to the commitments we have made here in this House, nor to the commitment I have made in recent times. I told him I'd look into the signals that were there. We've done those tests. I said that I prefer to send those investigations to the Chamber at the time when we can also give a policy response. Your room decided otherwise. Fine, then I will send you the investigations, but then it is also logical that the policy response, which has a substantive and a financial side, cannot be sent to the Chamber at the same time. This policy response is the subject of discussion. That's a logical sequence. I do things in the right order. I hope, as the President says, to be able to give you the outcome by the end of this month and then we will discuss it. That I have said out loud that the cabinet is more than willing to meet congregations, you may see as a sense of urgency on my part. From the fact that I have said that money alone will never solve all the concerns that exist at the moment, you may deduce that I think that it is not only with money that we can do it, but that you will also have to do it with substantive agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-13.u71	Let's get back to the motion before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-13.u72	I'd advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-13.u73	Mrs. Chicken, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-13.u74	Let me ask you a question about the report. Does the Minister recognise that the volume growth includes at least EUR 420 million of the estimated deficit of EUR 1.2 billion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-13.u75	No, but this really requires a better debate. We are going to talk about the interpretation of the figures, and that really requires more text than we can change in the context of this VAO.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-13.u76	But I've asked for this report in general consultation. That was sent then and this is the first moment in the VAO that I can come back to. I ask a very simple question based on 12% volume growth that is calculated. I therefore conclude that it is at least EUR 420 million from the 1.2 billion of the deficit that has now been calculated.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-13.u77	Those are all apples and pears. It's a whole fruit basket together. We really need to have a better conversation about this. Please, on the basis of the letter I will send, let us have a substantive debate on what we see, what the observations we are doing and what we are doing about it not only to meet municipalities financially, but also to find an answer to the content.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-13.u78	I think that's enough for now, Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-13.u79	Then let me conclude. I believe that the EUR 420 million is still very generous. I think it's silly that I'm not getting an answer to a very factual question I'm asking. I hear the Minister saying he's still negotiating. That means that I have to conclude that the EUR 350 million and EUR 190 million cannot be the endgame, that there will be better negotiations in the future, also in view of the amounts that I charge with the EUR 420 million alone, and that the debate will be continued.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-13.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. This brings us to the end of this VAO.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-13.u81	Both the motions submitted to the VAO Domestic violence and this VAO Mispositions in youth care institutions will be voted on Tuesday.
