ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-5.u1	I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan, on behalf of DENK, for his question to the Minister for Justice and Security, whom I warmly welcome. The question is about the millions crossing the party and gift budget with the police. Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-5.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The police have thrown millions of euros of taxpayers' money over the bar. A few examples: €15,000 for catering at Ajax-FC Utrecht in the Amsterdam ArenA, €55,000 for the farewell party of the former Chief of Staff and €31,000 for a welcome party when the new Chief of Staff came. Due to journalistic detective work by Argos, the police became incontrovertible because too much tax money is being spent unnecessarily. Over and over again that amount is exceeded: millions of tax dollars for caskets of wine, gifts, cards for football and even cooking workshops. Mr. Chairman. Does the Minister, like the rest of the Netherlands, believe that this huge expenditure on the police is disproportionate and scandalous? I also want to know from the Minister how much money, exactly, the police in recent years have exceeded that budget for parties and parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-5.u3	I call the Minister for Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-5.u4	Mr. Chairman. Let me say first of all that Community money must be handled carefully and that it must also be accounted for. Transparency on this subject is essential. For this reason, the declarations of the police summit since 2014 are even published monthly on national government.nl. Following the Ruys report of late 2017, measures have been taken to strengthen the monitoring of the police-wide declarations. A four-eyed principle has been applied in the management line. There is a split between external representation costs and, what we call, good employership internally. In addition, there is a better organisation of the accountability of all these costs. To see if these measures have had sufficient effect, the corps leadership initiated an investigation early this year covering the years '17, '18 and '19. It examines the representation costs. We can see a good comparison between before the Ruys report from 2017 and after that, after the measures have been taken. In the meantime, it appears that there are posts with regard to 2017 that could be questioned. I will also be precise: the post representation costs of EUR 2.4 million have been exceeded. Whether or not unlawful expenditure has been incurred, the police department's investigation must now be deduced. I can't anticipate that now. Next spring, in the annual report, the police will explicitly address the accountability of these representation costs and the demarcation. Finally, in the year-to-year account for 2019, I will not only go into this further, but also into the research on '17, '18 and '19.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-5.u5	Mr. Chairman. 2.4 million euros in excess of tax money, which was already known at the beginning of the year. I wonder why the police have something to do with the sykylunge. Who makes the rules? If there's a new chef coming, why are we throwing a party for $31,000? We were warned, because we all remember the example of the chairman of the central works council, Mr Giltay in 2016. Of these, the current chief of police said that expenditure was disproportionate and irresponsible and that it was careless, so this leadership had already been warned. But it's gonna go wrong after that. I find it so special that the Minister is going to do research and then answer for it. When does the Minister intervene?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-5.u6	As I said, there are posts that should indeed be questioned. The extent to which those posts are unlawful must be demonstrated by that investigation. As I said, I'll come back to your room. We are talking about 2017; indeed a remarkable overrun, let us be clear. That's why the investigation takes three years, '17, '18 and '19, because I want to see, and also the corps leadership, that those measures that were introduced in 2018 following the Ruys report, are actually effective. I think I will then talk to your Chamber on the basis of those results, or we think that is enough, or say: no, we need to zoom in on this more closely.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-5.u7	Finally, Mr President. Perhaps even more important than that tax money and that huge cost is what it does with respect for and authority of the police. We have seen that this is under real pressure, because citizens also want to see that the police deal with taxpayers' money in exemplary fashion. I therefore ask the Minister: how does that relate to this crisis of authority? How can those enforcers themselves break the rules? And how will the police, together with the minister, regain that trust?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-5.u8	I cast off the idea that the police would be in a crisis of authority, as I pointed out earlier in the general consultation Police, at the end of last month, in response to the violence against cops. We can say that there is a behavioral crisis in certain parts of society, and I would like to discuss this with your standing committee on 10 October when we have a general discussion again, because that is a clear problem. I'm gonna stand up for the police. He always takes that step forward. Mr Azarkan really has a point that we have to take a critical look at: what happened here, what happened to that overrun and did we take the measures? In that I take him seriously, but I reject the fact that the cop who is simply doing his job should lose some authority.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-5.u9	Thank you, Mr. Azarkan. Then I will go to Mr Van Raak, on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-5.u10	Does the Minister realize how angry and disappointed cops are when they hear this? If a cop has worked hard for a lifetime and says goodbye, he gets a book receipt and the chief of police gets a party of €57,000. I was in the program Argos to comment on these figures and there was also Professor Van den Heuvel, Professor of Integrity. He had a very nice plan. He said, "Give everyone in the police department a neighborhood cop, a detective or a chief of police $1,000 for a farewell party." And if a police chief thinks he's more or someone wants to throw a more expensive party, he'll pay for it himself. €1,000 for every cop, no matter how high or low, and the rest you pay yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-5.u11	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-5.u12	Does the Minister agree with this plan? Can he support this proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-5.u13	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Raak always comes up with a creative suggestion. I would like to assure you that we will discuss this further when we discuss the results of that study. I would like to stress that, in response to Mr Azarkan's oral questions, I would like to return to what I said that we need to have a thorough examination of this, especially in order to be able to justify to the ordinary officer, who is doing his very hard work, that no irresponsible costs are incurred.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-5.u14	That's it. And the Minister will return to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-5.u15	It is always a pity that such a discussion must arise and re-emerge. It's a good thing it happens if it isn't right. But I'm so sorry the cop on the street is facing that. He's got something else to do. I heard the Minister say it's being investigated. It's also good that this happens. But I'm sorry to hear that the department does, or lets. Can't that be put at a little more distance, so hopefully we won't have that discussion for once?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-5.u16	I think this is where the department takes responsibility. I'd like to make that clear to you. She says: we must have gotten to the bottom of this. Then there's someone who's gonna be tough on this. That's me. Then there is an agency, not an agency, but an essential body in our democracy, which checks that I have done well. That is the House of Representatives, in which Mrs Helder is also present. She knows, for she also participates in it, that I sometimes have critical and spicy discussions with your Chamber, or with the Permanent Chambers Committee. I can't say that I'm looking forward to it, but if things are really bad, then we have to have that critical discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-5.u17	Thank you. That also brings us to the end of this Question Time. I shall suspend the sitting until 3 p.m. Then we'll vote.
