ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-10.u1	We will continue with the VAO on reports on the WODC, with the Minister of Justice and Security, who has been in trade-K for several hours today. I shall first give the floor to Mrs Buitenweg on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-10.u2	Thank you, Madam President. You don't see anything wrong with the Minister. He's still in shape. That's a very good quality. I want to talk about last week. That's when we talked about the WODC. I found it very important during that general consultation that the Minister explicitly said there that the whistleblower who brought the whole thing to life was in good faith and went through the proper procedure. I see that as a recovery of honour for her, and I would like to thank the Minister very much for that. A number of measures have also been proposed by the Minister. I like it in principle, but, of course, we need to see how it works out. Everything falls and stands with cultural change. I think that's important. I hope that my next motion can contribute to this cultural change. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it has been found that the Ministry of JenV has tried at various times to improperly influence WODC research;]] [[whereas the report of the Overgaauw Committee describes and weighs the actions of the staff and management concerned, but does not extend to an assessment of the action of the minister responsible at the time;]] [[Whereas this Minister has shown a great deal of involvement in the investigation of international drug treaties and the scope they offer to legalise weed with comments such as "make sure that it is not legally possible";]] [[points out that such wording places employees in a difficult position and is therefore inappropriate,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Buitenweg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28844-170]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-10.u3	We need to be able to rely on the information we get from the Ministry, but that went very badly and it was structural. The Ministry must refrain from independent investigations. That must be the starting point. If improvements or suggestions are made, they must always be verifiable. That's what the next motion is about. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas independent research should also be truly independent and it should be avoided that it remains unclear whether and to what extent ministries influence conclusions or wordings in the investigations;]] [[points out that nuances, objections, comments or policy responses of officials or other stakeholders can be reflected separately, as is customary for example in reports of the General Court of Auditors or the Security Research Council;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that any influence, suggestions and adjustments from ministries to independent investigations are always transparent, transparent and follow-up,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Nispen and Mr Groothuizen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28844-171]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-10.u4	In last week's debate, the CDA referred to the ministry of JenV as a VVD propaganda machine in recent years. That's right, because it was. Today, the NRC gives a good example of this, how Minister Opstelten was not honest about the prosecution decisions. This is what we're gonna talk about next week. But doesn't this minister go on the same road every now and then? So should we also be working with this minister as detectives? Also press releases from this minister were not entirely honest. We have already highlighted two examples of this in the committee debate last week. Fortunately, this minister is now going to stop distributing press releases himself in WODC investigations. That's good. Now, for example, look again at the debate on the crime figures, which Mrs Helder is constantly calling for attention to be given to. Tomorrow, for example, we are going to talk about criminal cooperation, where there is also light between the investigation on the one hand and how the Minister reflects this in his letter to the Chamber on the other. So we have to keep an eye on whether the information we get from the Ministry is fair and reliable. I still find that worrying.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-10.u5	Thank you, Mr. Van Nispen. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Toorenburg. I see she doesn't need it. Then I'll go to Mrs. Van der Graaf. She too does not need this. I think I've had everyone. Then I'll see if the minister is able to answer. The second motion is coming, I hear. Let's wait for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-10.u6	Before I give the floor to the Minister, Mrs Helder would like to make a comment on Mrs Buitenweg's motion. Is that right, Mrs. Helder?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-10.u7	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I would particularly like that, because the motion specifically states that such words put employees in a difficult position. The recitals literally state the quote: make sure that it is not legally possible. Each member of the Chamber is concerned with his or her own wording, but now that it is put in a motion, I would like to make a comment on that. You can't be against that! You can't be against the verdict: make sure it comes out that it's not legally possible. Nobody wants that. Now I'm forced to vote for a motion, when I don't think it should be in a motion at all. In a debate you say: we do not want this. I mean that I feel a little weird here by putting this in a motion when we have had a debate. It is an undesirable situation that everyone considers undesirable, and that is what we discussed in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-10.u8	Perhaps first the petitioner of the motion, Mrs Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-10.u9	I understand what Mrs Helder is saying, and I have wrestled with it a little bit. But I am concerned that, in the report of the Overgaauw Committee, there will actually be a weighting over all the different people. Every time there's a cup of "weighing" and then there's a judgment, but just not about the minister. I don't think that's right, not even to those employees. There is also a director, whose actions are judged, but who says he acted on this instruction. I think it would be a good thing, also to the staff, to just say that as a Chamber. That was the intention of the whole report, at least of the discussion of that report.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-10.u10	But a motion is a judgment of the Chamber. That is something other than that you exchange arguments in a debate. I just don't think this is the usual way of doing things. I don't want to go into the content at all, because... Look, we talked about a propaganda machine, but I also don't want the Chamber to become a motion machine with texts that you're venting in a debate. A motion is a ruling from the Chamber! If you want to make a comment, it's in the Acts. That may also be enough, as several colleagues have said. The Acts then come back to the text and commentary on the articles of the law. That's enough, too. Now that it's being cast into a motion, I'm being forced into a position I just don't want.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-10.u11	You have made your point, Mrs Helder. I shall now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-10.u12	Mr President, if you do not mind, I shall begin Mr Van Nispen's motion in the opposite order. That's the second motion in part No. 171. I must advise against this motion, and I would like to explain it. In the debate I indicated that, of course, it should always be possible for officials or other stakeholders to make nuances, objections and so on, without always being fully named. So I'd like to dissuade that statement from the Chamber. The motion calls on the government to ensure that any influence, suggestions and adjustments from ministries to independent investigations are always transparent, insightful and follow-up. I am sympathetic to the idea and I said that in the debate. I believe that the development of how the WODC will report in future should take into account the need to ensure maximum transparency in the preparation of the report and the way in which it is done. I said that we should also include the OVV's method of working. It is quite an adjustment, but if that statement were to go out of the motion and the request was that the government should bring maximum attention to the WODC that it should be reflected in independent investigations in such a way that it would show transparency with regard to any suggestions made, then I agree with that. Then I can also leave the motion to judge Chamber, because then the WODC can also work with it itself. I do not think that I should give this institution, which we have now said should be independent, this kind of rules of the game in advance. Again, that is separate from that first point, "expresses that adjustments and such should always be displayed separately," because I simply find that contrary to the principle that people should be able to make certain comments over and over again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-10.u13	First of all, to remove the misunderstanding about the last point: this statement does not go beyond the fact that there is currently a possibility of being wobbled in the context of the procedure under the Public Administration Act. Now, for example, it took a request to find out what happened, what changed and when there was any influence from the Ministry. Of course, it is not about the names and numbers of officials; I believe that this misunderstanding can be removed immediately. But then we have to realize why we are standing here: because deep research has shown that for years the Ministry has had structural influence on independent investigations. Now we are saying: make sure, as is the case with the General Court of Auditors, for example, with an afterword, or a policy response from the Minister with an afterword from the Court of Auditors, or as it happens with the structure of the investigations of the Research Council on Security, that you can always see afterwards and that it is verifiable and transparent as to what changes that has led to. The Minister was doing so well last week in the debate. He went a long way this way. And now the door's closing pretty tight again. I'm really sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-10.u14	I would like to make an intermediate suggestion, and that is that Mr Van Nispen will continue his motion until this summer, as I have announced, we can see how the WODC intends to look into and how to implement such an annex to reports, which then includes a number of comments and the like, as the Research Council does; I did say that last week. I think it makes sense at that point to see if we think this is enough or not. But I don't want to do this, because then I'm going to meddle in what it looks like again; that's why I say "dissuade."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-10.u15	I really think the Minister is wrong about that. This motion doesn't say exactly how the WODC should do that. This motion is precisely trying to protect the WODC, namely by saying that influence from the Ministry must be separate and be insightful. The how can indeed be worked out. But with this motion, we're just trying to protect independent investigations from unwanted influence from the Ministry, which we'll have to find out later through investigative journalism, through WOB procedures or through which I know a lot. That's the intention of the motion. I think it is very good that we should make a clear statement on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-10.u16	That's your right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-10.u17	Then I'll stay off the hook.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-10.u18	Yeah? Mrs. Helder.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-10.u19	Mr President, thank you for your patience with me today. The Minister has "dissuaded" the judgment, so I have that in mind, but I ask him: how on earth can you "at least ensure that any influence is always transparent"? I think that's very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-10.u20	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-10.u21	Mr President, this is a question for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-10.u22	Yeah, okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-10.u23	I must confess that, as I have often done, I may be in default in this, because philosophically that is indeed quite impossible. However, I would like to say one last thing to Mr Van Nispen, through you, Mr President, so that I can stop. I understand his point. But what I'm saying is this: let's just wait and see what the transition advisor and the WODC will end up with the new organizational facility. Then I can imagine Mr Van Nispen saying: I would like even more transparency on this or that point. Then a motion would make much more sense. So one more reason to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-10.u24	That's clear. Mr Van Nispen has until Tuesday to think about this. Otherwise the motion will just be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-10.u25	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Buitenweg's motion I leave to judge Chamber. I'll tell you what...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-10.u26	Judgment Chamber is also so understood that you are in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-10.u27	Yes...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-10.u28	But that's not what you mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-10.u29	Well, I'm positive...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-10.u30	It's a question to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-10.u31	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-10.u32	I'm gonna get involved, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-10.u33	I can see it, but this whole thing aside. Mr President, let me put it this way, as I said in the debate last week: I am not going to take up the opinion of the Overgaauw Committee. It can't be. That's in the recital. The ruling that is or would be made by the Chamber if the motion is adopted is that the words quoted "place employees in a difficult position, and therefore inappropriate." I have said very clearly 'zero political direction' and I keep saying that. As a result, I have answered all of Mr Van Nispen's points. I have been attracted to the fact that under my reign there have also been a few press releases that were at least clumsy. This does not distort the figures, because the figures were just there. But the headline of the press release wasn't handy. We're not gonna do that anymore. We need to remain transparent and critical about it with each other. In this context, I would also like to give this motion by Mrs Buitenweg to the House of Commons.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-10.u34	That's good. Thank you. But the motion is addressed to the Chamber and not to the government. But that's okay at all, thank you very much. That also brings us to the end of this VAO.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-10.u35	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I'll suspend the meeting for a few minutes.
