ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-5.u1	The next item is the VSO Response to the opinion of the Health Council on ME/CVS. I would like to welcome the Minister of Medical Care. I would also like to welcome Members of Parliament and the people in the public gallery who are following this debate here, and of course the people who are following the debate at home. I would be the first to give the floor to Mr Raemakers. Mr Raemakers speaks on behalf of the D66 Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr President, thank you for the floor. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that ME/CVS is a serious chronic multi-system disease that significantly reduces the functioning and quality of life of people suffering from it;]] [[noting that at the same time it is still not clear how ME/CVS develops and how the disease can be properly treated;]] [[Whereas the current Cognitive Behavioural Therapy Directive (CGT) and graded exercise therapy (GET) are the first and second choice for treatment while the field is divided between the effects of these therapies and many patients indicate that they are harmed by these behavioural interventions, but the profession does not seem to intend to amend the Directive in the short term;]] [[whereas ME/CVS patients would also have suffered from the fact that they refused to participate in these behavioural interventions because of the potential damage;]] [[Calls on the Government to formally ask the Dutch Federation of University Medical Centres to launch an investigation into the added value of a centre of bundled expertise and information on ME/CVS for the patient group;]] [[Calls on the Government to discuss with healthcare professionals that the latest state of science should be properly applied at ME/CVS and that the profession actively collects new scientific information and, in the absence of results, propose within a reasonable period of time a revision of the Directive as regards CGT and GET for inclusion on the multiannual agenda of the Healthcare Institute, with the final assessment remaining with the Healthcare Institute;]] [[Furthermore, subject to the condition that the re-evaluation does not guarantee any other outcome, the Government invites those ME/CVS patients who have been refused the application for disability benefit to be actively informed of their possibilities of being re-evaluated at UWV,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Raemakers, Mr Van den Berg, Mr Van Gerven, Mr Veldman, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Ellemeet, Mr Ploumen and Mr Agema.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34170-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-5.u3	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday, as a committee with you as chairman, we received a delegation of ME/CVS patients. They gave us a survey. That survey actually sketches a staggering picture of how they feel known and seen in healthcare. That is why many of us have co-signed Mr Raemakers' motion. We would like people to feel seen in care and also to have the conditions for doing so. Mr. Chairman. We have just received answers to the questions put by Mr Van Gerven. These include the recognition of the disease and the practice of UWV. I have two motions on that. I just wanted to read these motions to you real quick. Perhaps later I could talk to the Minister about what we can do together to make patients feel that we are right behind them. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that WHO recognised ME/CVS as a neurological disease in 1969, and that countries such as Norway and Denmark officially recognise the disease;]] [[noting that the Minister has taken over the recent opinion of the Health Council but has not recognised ME/CVS as a disease;]] [[Whereas the Health Council recommended that ME/CVS be officially recognised as chronic disease as early as 2005;]] [[whereas ME/CVS patients feel not taken seriously by local authorities and semi-governments as well as doctors and this leads to many frustrations;]] [[Considers that official recognition of ME/CVS as a chronic disease will contribute to removing many frustrations and obstacles in ME/CVS patients;]] [[calls on the Government to declare that it officially recognises ME/CVS as a chronic disease,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ploumen, Mr Raemakers and Mr Ellemeet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34170-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-5.u4	Yes, I see it, Mr. Chairman. That motion isn't very short, but I'm going to do it very quickly. The Chamber, heard the debate, Considering that an assessment of treatment for ME/CVS patients is of great importance for the sustainability of their work disability; whereas there are indications that UWV insurance doctors regularly fail to act according to the UWV policies and patients do not feel taken seriously; noting that the report of the Health Council explicitly states that failure to follow CGT or CGT/GET treatments cannot be considered as inadequate recovery behaviour; invites the government to instruct the UWV to check whether the assessment of clients with ME/CVS is in accordance with the policy set out and to revise it if this is not the case, and goes to the order of the day. The President shall: This motion has been proposed by the member Ploumen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She's getting No. 9 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-5.u5	Thank you for your coulance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-5.u6	Thank you very much. Mrs Ellemeet, I am happy to give you the floor. No? You will waive your speaking time. Mrs. Van den Berg, go ahead. You are speaking on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-5.u7	Mr. Chairman. First of all, thank you to the Minister for answering our questions in writing. As Mrs Ploumen has already pointed out, we received a petition from patients yesterday, and that shows a huge need to at least look at the treatments and whether there should be no more research. Hence, as a CDA, we have wholeheartedly supported Mr. Raemakers' motion. In addition, Q-fever patients can also get the same type of symptoms of chronic fatigue. In other debates, I think we agreed that the Minister would have another conversation with Q-fever patients and that this would happen. Only, I get back that the agreements that have been made or the report that has been made would not be shared. So I'd like to hear from the Minister how his interviews with Q-fever patients who may have these complaints. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-5.u8	Thank you. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mr Van Gerven speaking on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-5.u9	Mr. Chairman. Some 30,000 to 40,000 people in the Netherlands suffer from ME/CVS. That's a very large number. These people often have an uncomfortable life. That has everything to do with the fact that this disease is very difficult to diagnose and is also very difficult to treat. It is to be praised that the group succeeded in getting that on the agenda of the House of Representatives. I hope that this debate too will help to improve both research and the treatment of those patients, because that is really urgently needed. I shall first read out a motion to further stimulate research into the disease and its treatment. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in the Netherlands about 30,000 to 40,000 people suffer from this serious disease;]] [[believes that care for patients with ME/CVS in the Netherlands can and should be improved here and now;]] [[Whereas scientific research into ME/CVS is necessary to help patients better and the Health Council recommends this;]] [[Whereas the development of a centre of expertise or knowledge may contribute to improving the investigation of the causes of ME/CVS and adequate treatment of ME/CVS patients;]] [[calls on the Government to develop a subsidy scheme to enable such a centre,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34170-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-5.u10	I support this motion because we really have to deliver butter to the fish. We see that the willingness in the medical world to develop a centre for this is not great, and that must be encouraged in terms of the SP and hopefully a majority of the Chamber. Let me remind you of the Lyme Center of Expertise. In addition, a network has been established, also with the support of the Chamber. I call on the Minister to take over this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-5.u11	This is a very important subject. I share that with Mr Van Gerven. That is why we had also said in our common motion: let us start an investigation into this or encourage it. Because the doctors have to do it eventually, as Mr Van Gerven says. And if there's a center of expertise, it's not gonna do us any good if we don't want doctors to take part in it. So I wonder how Mr Van Gerven sees that. Isn't it important to first see what doctors and doctors say about this themselves, and then we try to hunt it down in the first place?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-5.u12	The SP supported the motion because I believe that we need to make sure that we move forward. And this motion, drafted by Mr Raemakers and supported by many others in the Chamber, is taking a step in the right direction. But I'm also looking at the advice of the Health Council. He states: "The Dutch Federation of University Medical Centres and health insurance companies designate some medical centers and so on." That's not really getting off the ground. That's what we've got to find out. That's why I think it would be good to do a little extra, to make sure that those 30,000, 40,000 people who are sitting at home very often now feel unheard and who are not helped offer a perspective, a bit by analogy with Lyme and Q fever. There are similar elements. Support from the Chamber for a facility is urgently needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-5.u13	I see Mr Raemakers still standing at the interrupting microphone, but I also look at the clock. Very brief, finalizing, Mr. Raemakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-5.u14	Then could it be an option to do that investigation first, in accordance with our joint motion? Then you'll hold your motion for a moment. And if that investigation says we can do it this way, then we'll vote on your motion. Otherwise, I find it very difficult to vote on this in two weeks' time. That is simply a huge dilemma for my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-5.u15	Clear. Mr Van Gerven, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-5.u16	I think we can do both, but we'll talk about that later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-5.u17	Thank you. Then I'll look in the direction of the minister. We have come to the end of the House's deliberations. I understand the Minister needs a single moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-5.u18	I am happy to give the floor to the Minister to answer the questions put and to give an opinion on the motions tabled. The Minister has the floor. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-5.u19	The motion in part No. 7 is a broadly supported motion that reflects a feeling that I think we all share. I would like to put that feeling in words as follows. There are many merciless diseases and ME/CVS is one of them. Difficult is always to determine exactly what ME/CVS is, but that is, in Mr Van Gerven's words, when you sit on the couch all day long and can't do otherwise. That seems awful to all of us. So I understand very well that your Chamber has tabled this motion, which sounds and is so manifest. I also intend to give that motion judgment chamber. But I would like to add one more word. There are actually three requests to the government in the motion. The first is to look through the NFU to see if there is an added value of a centre for bundled expertise and information on ME/CVS. I think that's a good idea. I'd like to do that. I also believe that there is not so much a desire on the part of the profession as a question of what expertise should be and what knowledge is needed to pool in such a centre. The motion calls on the government to ask the NFU. I thought of a slightly different route, but I'm fine with this. I had already agreed with ZonMw to come up with a knowledge agenda for ME/CVS in the first quarter of 2020, which will take into account the questions of how to spread knowledge and therefore how to pool knowledge, and what communication we need to do extra. This knowledge agenda should lead to a number of answers. That'll lead to a new investigation. I thought I'd follow that route, but this one's also possible; they're falling apart. I do agree with Mr Raemakers, the first petitioner of the motion, that I would like to do so first, in order to get to the motion later, which states that the Centre of Expertise should have a budget. If the solution is a centre of expertise, then I think it should be budgeted. If something else is needed, such as communication, more research or a combination of those things, then I think the question about the budget is always on the agenda. That is not requested in this motion. The motion is only about investigation on this point. But I promise you, I want to take that seriously. In the second part of the operative part, the government is asked to talk to the healthcare professionals and to ensure that the new scientific information is properly used. It is also called upon to work on the revision of the Directive. This is a good thing, namely that, if the profession is not working on this review itself, we in the government are once again giving a boost in the right direction and saying: are you on top of the new information and new insights from the country and abroad, because there is a large group of people who are looking for a diagnosis, a cause of ME/CVS. That's what's good about it. The revision of the directive is, of course, one of the professionals and not of the government. But there is something else in the text of the motion for a resolution on the directive: 'within reasonable time'. It is therefore a matter of trying to keep pace; I say it very unkindly to the profession. I would, of course, like to do so, so I have no reservations on that point either. I agree with this part of the operative part. Actually, as usual, my question was more in the last point. It invites the government to actively inform ME/CVS patients whose application for disability benefit has been rejected. I think I remember a few years ago that you can't just extract patients' data from the UWV files; in fact, you can't get it out of them. Can I read the motion in such a way that I don't pass it through the individual patient, but through the patient association? There are five of them, so we can approach them well. Then I've gone through all the pieces of the motion. If I may read the motion in that way, I will, I repeat, leave it to the House to decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-5.u20	Thank you. The motion in part No. 7 receives, with the Minister's explanation, a ruling from the Chamber. In any case, I see a nodding in agreement with the first author and I see a question from Mr Van Gerven. Will you keep your question brief? We're running out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-5.u21	It's about the re-examination or the operation of the UWV. I've had the numbers working on me for a while. 30 patients have full disability benefit due to ME/CVS, 30 patients out of 30-40,000. I would ask the Minister if he would like to discuss the claim assessment with the UWV again. Because we can call for a re-evaluation, but if the outcome is black and offers little perspective, then that makes little sense. Will the Minister do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-5.u22	This remark is actually part of the motion on item No. 9, i.e. to order, or to obtain information from, or both of them from, the UWV. There are several reasons why I'm making the motion in part no. 9, so that I can consult with my colleague from Social Affairs, of whom the UWV falls. That also gives me the opportunity to include Mr Van Gerven's question. That does not affect the Court's judgment on the motion in part No. 7, but I'm sure you'll know that I'm on the motion in part No. 9 is going to say that I would like to keep it for consultation with my colleague from Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-5.u23	Then first we go to the motion in part no. 8.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-5.u24	In the motion in part No. 8 The Government is invited to declare that it officially recognises ME/CVS as a chronic disease. I find that difficult, in the sense that a government does not recognise diseases. That's something professionals do. For example, the WHO has done so on the classification list; sorry for the policy language, but they have put ME/CVS on that list. So I'm not going to go on the path as the Netherlands to say, "we recognize ME/CVS," which means that there's some sort of home label that I'm saying would possibly give the picture that claims would improve towards social security. But in the motion in part No. 8 is so much action about all the attention that I think it is necessary that I actually want to make all that attention mine and put the government's active energy on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-5.u25	A question from Mrs Ploumen on this request, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-5.u26	My impression is that we are quite close together and that the Minister, like us, understands where this need for recognition comes from. It's not so much about formal claims, I understand that he says so, but about being seen. So if I changed in the operative part "to pronounce" to "to convey" that it was a chronic disease, would that be possible? I would like to say straight away that I am also prepared to hold the motion, to see if we can meet the demand for recognition of patients in further consultation. For now it is also true that a particular profession, for example, simply ignores the Health Council report.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-5.u27	Your point is clear. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-5.u28	Well, the point is not quite clear to me, because I didn't want to do that recognition. It's a certain terrible disease. Also at my table, patients tell their stories, as do all of you. This can really take a big bite out of a human life. So there's got to be that attention. That is why I think that is well invested in the motion in part No. 7. When Mrs Ploumen says "I have tabled a motion and I want to hold it," of course, always. I am always prepared to discuss it, but I do not wish to suggest that, with government recognition, we will do something to push forward social security claims, for example. If it says "Keeps ME/CVS the active attention of this government," absolutely. That's what I told the patients. I think that is also well decided in the motion on item No. 7.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-5.u29	I'm going to make the motion in part no. Eight, hold on. I would like to ask the Minister if he would reconsider the wording "calls on the government to declare that it officially considers ME/CVS to be a chronic disease'. Then we can discuss this in consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-5.u30	You now state that you have the motion in part No. 8.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-5.u31	Then the motion to part No. 9. I have already said that I would also like to keep it in view of my consultation with my colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-5.u32	I see Mrs Ploumen nodding in agreement, so that motion is also being held.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-5.u33	Mr. Chairman. I'm not ready for a grant scheme for a center right now. I support the suggestion made by Mr Raemakers that first of all the motion in part No. 8 and then come back to this issue. In that context, I have indicated that a subsidy scheme for a centre is possible, but that, if anything else is needed, I do not run away from it in the financial sense. I think that is an important point. Perhaps that also sounds like a form of recognition for the people suffering from this disease.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-5.u34	Thank you. The motion in part No. 10 is not recommended in this form. Mr Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-5.u35	Mr. Chairman. Not quite if I listen to the minister properly. He is prepared to look at a form of subsidy if the outcome would be that a centre of expertise could contribute to solving the problem we are discussing today. Can the Minister indicate something of a timeline? It would be good if there was a certain acceleration. If we have to wait for the investigation, we may be far in 2020. Can the Minister say anything about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-5.u36	I expect the knowledge agenda ME/CVS in the first quarter of 2020. It is drawn up by ZonMw, together with the five patient associations. Let me look at the future of planning at that point, including in the field of research, also in the field of communication, including in the area of dissemination of knowledge, dissemination of knowledge. I would like to include the question of whether there should be a form of centre of expertise, or whether something else should be done. This isn't gonna be a house with a front door that says, "Expertise Center." We have other examples where sometimes there is a coordination function between different scientists from the country. Maybe that will be the outcome, but do you think it's okay that I associate this with the Knowledge Agenda that ZonMw is planning to draw up?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-5.u37	With this commitment we are holding the motion in part No. 10 on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-5.u38	At the request of Mr Van Gerven, I propose his motion (34170, No. 10), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-5.u39	I'm at the end of the motions, but there's another question. Mrs Van den Berg said in my direction that there have been talks with Q-fever patients and that apparently there is an expectation that a discussion report has been produced. I've had several interviews with several patients. I'll check with Mrs. Van den Berg on which group we're talking about. I generally do not promise interview reports because these kinds of conversations are very often about patient experiences. Then I think the conversation is more important than what was put on paper. I'm gonna find out where that need is, and then I'm gonna check, if there's nothing to it, if we can make a report out of notes or recollection. If there's such a need, I'd like to try to provide for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-5.u40	I thank the Minister for Medical Care for his input, as well as the MPs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-5.u41	We are going to vote on the motion not next Tuesday but on 24 September on Princess Day.
