ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u1	The next item is the debate on Chapter XIIa of the Rules of Procedure: Integrity. Ladies and gentlemen. Today we are discussing the important issue of integrity in plenary. This theme concerns all of us. We have had a special committee in this area in the past, the Bröcker Committee, and we have regular exchanges of views with the GRECO on this subject. In preparing this debate, we did not go ice in one night. We have discussed the issue several times in the College of Seniors and reviewed the integrity rules at chamber and group level. In November, we organised a separate meeting of the College devoted entirely to integrity. Furthermore, on 18 December last year we had a round table in this house with a number of experts. With them we have our ear to listen carefully. I would remind you that we have already drawn a number of conclusions and agreed on the issue of integrity at the meetings of the College of Seniors. I call them. 1. We will soon publish an integral gift register and a travel register on the website of the Eerste Kamer. These registers are complementary to the listing of trips and gifts by individual members; 2. All members will be reminded by the Registrar of the request to report gifts and travels made; 3. We have concluded that the disclosure of functions held by members in addition to the membership of the Chamber requires more attention. The ancillary statements shall be up-to-date and correct, and shall also contain sufficient information. In particular, the brief description of the activities carried out by a member and of the organisation for which the member is employed is required in accordance with the rules. We're gonna be sharper on that; 4. The relevant laws and regulations shall be redistributed to members; 5. Following the upcoming Chamber Exchange, an inaugural meeting on integrity will be organised for the new members and for all members; 6. The College of Seniors organises a special meeting on integrity twice a year to exchange experiences and best practices. Having said all this, I shall open the debate and give the floor to Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In politics, imagery plays a crucial role, also in this Chamber, which is often called "la chambre de réflexion," but where the hunch of the Hague backrooms actually hangs. It is often screened with the statement that the senatorship is a part-time job. So it's not a main function, it's a side function. Given the informal determination of the number of hours of work, there would be about one and a half days of chamber work, you could go along with that, but because it's a public office, you're just 24 hours a day, seven days a week, accessible as a senator and you're also judged as a senator for everything you do in everyday life. In this light, the senatorship can be seen as a main function. And that's okay. It is precisely a privilege that you may give your constituents a vote in parliament. Not that the political elite are eager for, for example, the voice of the street, which has been getting louder lately due to the behaviour of the ruling elite themselves. People start waking up and getting tricked over and over again. And that's on the agenda now. Mr. Chairman. The fact that the follow-the-Money journalists examined the extra functions of the senators and wrote a number of spicy pieces about them, while GRECO was also talking about lobbying and such, suddenly a large part of the senators felt that action needed to be taken. The Binnenhof should be wiped clean. Behind closed doors, a large part of the MPs once looked deep into each other's eyes. And in public, a round table was organized with wise men. There, all kinds of things have been reviewed, such as the drafting of codes of conduct with associated sanctions, such as exclusions and suspensions of Members of Parliament, which can, by the way, turn into a political weapon with which you can keep unwanted opinions out of the door. Freedom of speech is already under severe pressure. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is very reluctant about opt-outs in international treaties. While an opt-out on migration is an inaccessible path for the elite, one does not shy away from an opt-out to be able to lobby through. The website of the government contains the treaties database. This database also includes the additional protocol Criminal Law Convention on Corruption. This is part of the Treaty of Lisbon. It is stated that the Netherlands does not endorse Article 12. In short, the Netherlands has not imposed any obligation on itself to address lobbying. If fellow senators really want to do something, they should seriously question this opt-out. And then just out in the open. But, Mr President, I do not see that happening, because this chambre de réflexion can then become a lot less attractive for some of my colleagues, because it is quite possible that senatorship will generate less rewarding ancillary functions. Cleaning the street is just for the stage. Perhaps the by-catch is the melting of unwanted opinions under the benches. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. Integrity is a matter of human behavior. You don't make people respectful by making more rules and then forcing them to. People must be willing to adjust their moral compass. Integrity is therefore the responsibility of the MPs themselves. It is up to the political parties themselves to decide who they put on the electoral list. And it is then up to the electorate to charge a political party for something. The latter only works if the media does their job well, and sometimes it fails to do so. It is not for nothing that many citizens turn their backs on mainstream media. Citizens increasingly turn to the Internet, to the displeasure of the ruling class. Even the government wants to compete with what it calls "fake news," but the biggest spreaders of fake news are the political elite and its profiting minions themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u3	Those are the words of the chairman of the PVV Group. As she herself stated, she has every right to do so. There are twelve political groups in this Chamber. Eleven of them have integrity agreements. They published it on the website of the Upper House. The PVV didn't publish it. Can I assume those appointments aren't there either? Or are they there, but does the PVV not want to share it with us and with the people, who, according to Mrs Faber, are so eager for clear information about how we organise our trade and walking here?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u4	I wonder if people are yearning for that. I think that our constituents are very anxious that we should listen to them here for once and really defend their interests. I think that's what they're yearning for. And they're not waiting for this whole windowdressing here in this house. In addition, the integrity rules of a party are still an internal matter. You really don't make people integrity anymore by putting rules on a website. It's in the people themselves. It's your moral compass you need to adjust. And that doesn't help a website, that doesn't help any rules, you just won't make it. If people aren't willing to adjust their moral compass, then it just stops. Then we can start making stuff up, but that's not gonna work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u5	That is a long answer to the simple question: does the PVV not have integrity agreements and should the citizens not know? As I said, Mrs Faber uses armored language over the elite, back rooms, a hint of, and so on. She may say that of all of me, but it would be up to all of us to respond positively to it as much as possible. Eleven out of the twelve political groups, of course, cannot be right, but it can of course also be good that the eleven political groups have agreed on the way we deal with each other here, on the way we behave here, and that the public should know that. I would like to know from the chairman of the PVV group why the people should not know whether there are agreements in the PVV Group regarding integrity and, if there are agreements, why we should not know what these agreements are. That's not a complicated question, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u6	It is a matter for the PVV Group and for the party itself. I'll stick with that. You can ask three more times in a different form, but I'll stick with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u7	The third time and finally, Madam President. May I conclude from this that the PVV Group does not have any agreements? Can I say that if she does not want to publish those agreements, she will not want to share them with the rest of the population? If so, you can just say yes. But at least we'll know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u8	Mr. Kox can see what he wants. He can see it, but that doesn't mean that something isn't there. Then there are two very different things.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u9	I notice that Mrs Faber is talking about the First Chamber as if she were not part of it, as if her entire group were not part of it, while the media that Mrs Faber refers to are simply targeting the whole Chamber when they are talking about the lack of confidence in the ways in which interests are handled. Why does Mrs Faber not support this Chamber's efforts to ensure that those rules on integrity are better and more stringent and that we also address each other better? Why is it that Mrs Faber and her group remain completely out of the question, as if that was not the same problem for her group?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u10	The answer lies in the question, because Mrs Strik herself is already giving the answer. The fact is that this whole circus of today and of the past few weeks has been launched in response to reports by Follow the Money. I am not going to play the person, I am not going to point out people in this room either, because everyone knows who is mentioned in it. That's when the ball started rolling. We do not have all these secondary functions, so we do not feel addressed at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u11	I therefore note that Mrs Faber feels morally superior to the rest of the Chamber. That really hits me. The whole Chamber, as far as I am concerned, is that the responsibility of everyone should ensure that in the future, on the contrary, there is no need to question behavior. And take it from me: even the PVV Group will not escape the fact that discussions will be about that. It is simply a general responsibility of us to ensure that we can fulfil our role as co-legislator purely.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u12	I'd like to respond to this. We do not feel morally superior to anyone, certainly not above our electorate and certainly not above these Dutch people, although I do experience this differently in this Chamber. People do certain things because they know they can get away with it. If they get that awareness for once, it's gonna be very different. Look, we can talk about integrity for hours, days or years, we can pour a nice sauce over it, but it's just not gonna work. That's just not gonna work! It's just the people themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u13	I saw that Mrs Faber was a member of the Bröcker Committee five years ago, who, on behalf of this Chamber, examined the GRECO opinion from 2013 and made recommendations. You were a member of that committee and you thought about it. This was, for example, about a code of conduct. A certain form has been given to that. I would like to ask Mrs Faber: do you think that in those five years we have progressed as a Chamber? In line with your advice, have we made any progress in promoting integrity?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u14	Firstly, it was not my opinion, but the opinion of the committee. There's a nuance in that. Did we make any progress? I think everyone should ask that question to themselves. I can't judge Mr. that one or Madame that one. I think everyone should look at themselves: Have I done well for the past five years? I can't judge it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u15	You made one exception at that time. This was about whether research could be carried out on, for example, donations to political groups and parties. You have not made any reservations about the committee's wider recommendations. The Committee has also ruled that the reputation of the Chamber is a general interest of all members of the Chamber. I therefore ask you for an answer: do you think we have improved?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u16	You're talking about the reputation. We then stated that we all have an interest in the reputation of the Chamber. That's right, that's what I agree with. That's where we'll find each other. Did we make any progress? Again, this Chamber is composed of MPs. Each MP has his own behaviour and is responsible for his own conduct. I'm not gonna judge Jantje, Pietje or Klaasje. I just don't feel like it at all. I think everyone knows for themselves whether or not he did it right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u17	Finally, Mr. Kuiper.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u18	Mrs Faber, you will, because you say that there is a hint of backrooms over the Chamber. You say that this debate is a circus, when you yourself participated in that committee and advised the whole Chamber on behalf of the committee how we should deal with integrity. Where are you in this whole discussion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u19	I think the Christian Union colleague is confusing things. He's confusing two things. We have the committee and we have this debate. That's two different things. It's true that I was on the GRECO committee. We then indicated that we had put someone from the PVV there to avoid worse. That's how we were in that movie back then. Look, you're gonna stir it up, so I'm gonna respond to it. That makes sense. If I don't respond, I'm told I won't answer the question. Where are we? We ourselves in our own group are discussing what we are doing. The reputation of the Chamber, you are responsible for that as a whole Chamber. That Chamber is composed of individual members and individual groups. That is our political system.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u20	All the way to the end, Mr. Kuiper.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u21	I would like to respond to the phrase that you have 'to avoid worse' on the committee. However, the committee has recommended that we should all support what Mr Kox said about this and make it clear how we deal with integrity in a political group, so that we can use that broad word. Only you do not want to participate, as the only group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u22	That does not mean that we do not participate. Just because you don't see things doesn't mean they're not there. Those aren't backrooms at all. I see Mrs Jorritsma making a gesture from the gallery: if you want to interrupt, you need to walk to the microphone and not sit down again, as you always do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u23	May I just point out that I'm in charge of the meeting?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u24	Yes, you're right, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u25	Thank you, Mrs Faber. I give the floor to Mrs Jorritsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u26	Mr. Chairman. It's very annoying when your integrity is called into question. That's always true, but for someone with a public function it's even more annoying, because it leads to negative publicity and because the consequences go way beyond yourself. It hits, when it's about a politician, the whole politics, it hits your party, but let's not forget that it also affects the person in question. Especially when you're aware of no evil, it's very intense. I can say that from my own experience. In recent months, the First Chamber has discussed the issue of integrity several times, following a number of incidents and publications. In fact, it is a pity that the Upper House, despite the fact that we had more or less agreed, has not discussed this issue regularly anymore. I wanted to say: let us do this in the future, but that is what we have just agreed. After all, it is good to regularly look at the agreements made: are they still appropriate or should we change them? Not with the aim of always tightening the rules, but to see if our rules still protect colleagues sufficiently. I refer to the word 'protect' deliberately, because that is what integrity agreements are meant for. It is good to start with a definition of the word "integrity." There are a lot of different definitions of that. I used Wikipedia, which says about integrity, that it is the personal property, character property of an individual that implies that the person concerned is honest and sincere and not bribeable. The person has intrinsic reliability, says what he does and does what he says, has no hidden agenda and does not fake emotions. An integer person will not let his actions be influenced by improper acts. I'm assuming that this room has 75 honest people in it. This sounds very simple, but unfortunately it is a bit more complicated, because what one calls integrity is not at all for the other. What was considered perfectly normal and honest ten years ago is not today at all. The core of the VVD is always: assessing whether there is a conflict of interest, whether there is a risk of conflict of interest, or whether there is a risk of conflict of interest. Personally, I always use the simple rule: I dare tell a journalist what I do. And in case of doubt, just don't. That's an easy one. Since the first discussion following the GRECO Committee in 2012, the VVD Group has adopted a code of conduct mentioned on the website of the Upper House. Mr. Chairman. Unlike most Senates in Europe, the First Chamber is a Chamber filled with people mostly dependent on membership for their income. Of course, we are all always senators, but many of us have a different main function or a basket with different smaller functions. The question is of course: do you know that what you do in your other functions, keep sufficiently separate or keep strictly separate from the work you do here? In the opinion of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, which we agree on, as I pointed out earlier, we are always trying to protect parliamentarians and also to prevent the Senate from appearing in a negative light. The better the agreements are, the better they provide protection against unfair allegations. At the same time, we must ensure that our rules of conduct make working as a parliamentarians either impossible or so unattractive that we can no longer find qualified people who want to do this important work. GRECO has made a number of proposals, some of which have been taken over by the First Chamber and some have not or have not yet taken over. So far, we have said that the confidant to whom dilemmas can be presented is the chairman of the Upper Chamber. I found that difficult for the members of GRECO, because the chairman is part of Parliament. The VVD Group would like to propose a different way of answering this question in the future. For several years now, the House of Representatives has had an external confidant with this answer, but what strikes me is that this person has never been asked a question. In the meantime, we have also decided, it has just been said by the chairman of the Registry that the Registrar reminds us twice a year that we have the gifts, or travels we get and those paid by third parties, entered in the register, so that it can no longer be forgotten. By the way, I suspect that for the First Chamber this list will always be very modest. Lobby's tend to focus heavily on the House of Representatives. We in the VVD Group do not need to regulate the lobby further. I would like to make it very clear that lobbying is about telling the views of individual citizens, businesses and institutions. Our view is that there can never be enough lobbying in this respect. I mean to say that it is of the utmost importance that parliamentarians, who have to deal with laws, know as many of the views of opponents and opponents as possible, and of whom there is nothing to say about them when they deal with certain laws. Of course, lobbying must never degenerate into bribery, pressure and so on. You hear a lot about that, but I have to tell you that in the 12 years that I have been a Member of Parliament, the eight years that I have been a Minister and the 12 years that I have been mayor have never come across.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u27	Mrs Jorritsma says that we as a group do not need further rules on lobbying. What GRECO is proposing is not so much to lay down substantive criteria about who is allowed to lobby and not, but above all, to increase transparency, so that it is clear who then tried to exert influence. Is Mrs Jorritsma also opposed in principle to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u28	I think it's so special that you say that. I think as a MP, you want all the information, whether you like the people who own it or not. I also believe that some people think that NGOs are not lobbies and that lobbying only concerns commerce. I think everyone should be able to talk to us about commerce, the NGOs, and I don't care who should be able to contact us. We parliamentarians are supposed to have straight backs. We must say, for example, that you are doing it in the wrong way. I've never been there, by the way. You get a lot of letters and people come back and tell you what they all think. Of course, we have a peculiarity that our building is not publicly accessible. In this house, you always have to make arrangements to get in. That's different across the street. That's why they have a lobbyist register there. This concerns the people who get a pass that allows them to walk freely in the building. You can't do that here. Otherwise, I really don't need it. Moreover, I think, frankly, looking at how we are approached about legislation, that I am more often approached by individual citizens than by lobbyists. Then, of course, such a lobby register is far from complete.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u29	I think we are very much in agreement that the form of a lobbyist does not matter. What matters is that the public following the debate also has an insight into who has tried to influence it. I don't see so much trouble registering that. That does not mean anything about limiting this, but it does promote the level of understanding of how the debate and the decision-making process come about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u30	Do you really believe that? I don't believe any of that. When I look at the pressure that is being exerted or how people have tried to exert influence, especially in a number of legislative proposals that we have been discussing lately, I see that many more individual citizens have put heavy pressure on MPs. That was not to move in their direction, but to give information or to emphasize their position. They're not in a register like that. All letters written to the House of Representatives are already in a register. That's why we use that thing I never use, PerfectView. In it you can see exactly who, which relationships, send us all letters. I see the added value of a register again. Who is allowed in it and who is not and are we selective in it or not? Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u31	Finally, Mrs Strik, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u32	We do not need to discuss how that needs to be worked out here. I do find it a difference in existence whether individual citizens write us a letter or organisations or companies that represent a particular interest in society, and that everyone can see that they have tried in some way to inform us or to influence us or to influence us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u33	I think it is a duty of every interested party to inform us properly, so I do not quite understand what the added value of writing them down is. In fact, you would have to write a letter to all those who didn't, if they would please. I think it's such a strange idea that it wouldn't be transparent if people wrote us a letter. I think, frankly, if you keep a story, I'll be able to hear very well who came to see you, and you'll probably be with us. Most of the time, they go everywhere. One might listen a little more to someone who is a little closer to one's own point of view than the other, but in the end we have to make our choices independently at the end of the journey. It's best if you have a lot of people with you who have told you how they feel.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u34	A lobby register can, of course, be a strange idea from a rather paranoid mind. But in this case, the proposal comes from the Group of States against Corruption, an international organisation with which the Netherlands is a prominent member, together with 46 other Member States of the Council of Europe and the United States. That Group of States against Corruption, that GRECO, told us a few years ago: the Netherlands, we would appreciate you creating a lobby register, as we say to the other 46 Member States. We said it wasn't necessary at the time. Now we're a few years ahead and GRECO repeats that. So it's not just someone who has an idea. This is an organisation that we are a prominent member of and which gives us an opinion that it also gives to other Member States. Still, you don't have to take it a priori, but it's more than just advice. I would say: if our own organization repeats that time and time again, why should we not do what they do in other countries? Apparently, they can live well with that. You can also sometimes assume something from someone else, especially if you have created, financed and organized that organisation yourself. Or am I a little too naive?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u35	To be honest, you're a little too naive. It would be very special if you had to take over from an organization that you have created yourself, and in which all the political colors are represented, about everything that says. I am really concerned here that if we do that, that, I would say, is 100% symbolic policy. 100%. I don't see any kind of added value in a lobby register. Then what's to be in there? That is what we must do. Do we have to think: wait a minute, I forgot that Jan also said something to me and that also needs to be in the register? A MP has to keep his back straight. All the letters we get are registered and in a public record. Besides, I don't know if it's completely public, but they usually send their letters with their opinions to the press. What else do you have to do? I still get the lobbyist register because it's about passes. This is about who is allowed to walk freely in the private part of the House of Representatives. I can understand that. However, not everyone is on that and people also make other agreements with other people who come once in a while to represent an interest in a law. Of course, that's the way it's done all the time. I really don't see the added value of such a register. I also learned that you shouldn't do things that are just for symbolism.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u36	Finally, Mr. Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u37	That means that all those Member States of GRECO are those 47 countries plus 1, that is to say 48 countries which have set up a lobby register for 100% symbolic politics. I think that's quite a...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u38	I'm not saying that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u39	The countries that have done so are at least 100% symbolic. If not, then my question is why we are not going to do that. Another comment in the direction of Mrs Jorritsma: GRECO is not a non-binding coffee party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u40	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u41	It is an organisation in which Member States commit themselves to adopt its recommendations. That's why you get a stamp at some point: now it's good. So it's not like the Netherlands can say: we don't see anything in it, so we just don't do it. It's, like, one more time, not a coffee party. It's an organization we've committed ourselves to. When we say to other Member States, for example in the east of this continent, that they have to comply with all these agreements, I do not see why a serious proposal by GRECO, which is also being taken over in other countries, for example having a lobby register, should come up against so much opposition from the VVD at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u42	Well, not in one go. Last time, I believe, the Chamber said in a majority of this: we are not going to do that. It's not legislation either. What you're saying isn't true. It's not an obligation to take over everything. I think you should seriously consider it. Any proposal that GRECO makes, you need to seriously consider. We have looked carefully at this and said that we really do not need it in our situation. We don't have a public building and we're not all busy talking to outsiders all week, not at all. We have to make all the arrangements to speak to someone ourselves and all the letters are sent to everyone. That's why we don't see the added value of such a separate register.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u43	Mr. Kox, really close.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u44	Yes. Mrs. Jorritsma said something I said wasn't true. Of course I can, but I don't consciously do that. I am convinced that the organisation of the GRECO is such that countries are regularly examined, that recommendations are made and that Member States are expected to follow these recommendations sooner or later. Otherwise, I never understood the system properly. I would nevertheless advise Mrs Jorritsma to check that again, because it is more than a non-binding advice from the GRECO. It is a recommendation that a Member State, operating well within that organisation, is expected to take over the recommendations on the left or right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u45	Yes, Chairman, then again from my side, with your permission. I think you should do something motivated with recommendations that the committee makes seriously. I am not going to judge why other countries are doing or not doing something. They must do so especially in their own systems, which are sometimes totally different from ours. We are only talking about this part of integrity today, but there is, of course, much more to say about the political system an sich. I shall come back to that later in the second term. We are motivated because we have a closed building, where someone always has to make appointments. That's also the interesting thing: you don't have back rooms where you can sit, but you make your appointment with whoever you're talking to, almost always in the lobby. That's the lobbyists' spot. As far as I am concerned, such a register is not of added value.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u46	Mr Jorritsma said that every letter sent to this house by a citizen is registered. She also said she never looks at that herself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u47	All movements as well, all companies, all interest groups, all environmental organisations. Everything writes us letters. Fine. That's what I'm supposed to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u48	Exactly. These letters are all registered, but every visit by a lobbyist is not registered. According to Mr Jorritsma, where is the big difference between a visit by a lobbyist and a letter from a citizen? Does Mr Jorritsma think that you can actually abolish that register for the letters? Or does Mr Jorritsma think that the visits of lobbyists can actually be in a register, even if you do not consult it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u49	I find a letter from a citizen as important as a letter from a company, an NGO or so on. Most of the time, after writing a letter about it, the lobbyists come back to explain what they wrote in the letter and what their interest is. I never hear anything else than we already knew on paper, but it is their right to come and tell me again. Sometimes they are large organisations, sometimes they are small organisations and sometimes they are individual citizens. Very often, an individual citizen asks for a meeting with a Member of Parliament. I see that happening all the time in this house. I don't see any difference between them; I don't appreciate them differently either. But if you want to create a register, you don't have to create a lobby register, but then you just have to write everything down. Once again, in the end, we are the ones who have to keep their backs straight. We are the ones who have to make a choice independently at the end of the journey and have to say: when I look at it and hear all those letters, all those ideas and all those opinions, I go that way. Sometimes that is in line with what a lobbyist finds and sometimes not at all. They'll have to accept that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u50	That is clear to me, but I note that Mr Jorritsma says that as far as she is concerned there is no difference between what lobbyists do and what citizens do. My question to my colleague, Mr Jorritsma, was whether we should then send letters to the citizens' register of letters as lobbyists, the same applies to the same thing in relation to the latter. Or does she think it is an extension, because it represents an equal value, to include lobbyist visits in a register?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u51	We have PerfectView, in which all letters received by the Chamber are recorded. I'm not satisfied with that, let me put it this way. It would be very good if everything we got inside could be easily registered. I know that the Registry is currently working on this. If that system is there, I'm fine with it. I think they're all pieces that can be revealed like this. But that is not a lobby register, it is a letter register, which, by the way, is full of lobbyists.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u52	Finally, Mr. Coffeeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u53	Yes, Chairman, at the latest. Mr Jorritsma sees no difference between letters sent and visits made. I note that all these letters are registered and those visits are not. My question to Mr Jorritsma is therefore whether that is a reason to abolish the letter register. Or is it a reason to extend the visit register?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u54	But what is the added value of a visit register in your view? Tell me that! I've never seen any added value that I think I've heard before. And: that's a lobbyist and he knows it so well. Usually they come back with a letter that they sent, explain again and say how important they are. You have these clubs that think themselves very important. That's fine, let's listen to that a lot, but I don't see the added value of writing that Jan was visiting us. What is the added value of this? What do we learn from that? Then what do we do with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u55	Now, all the way to the end, Mr. Koffeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u56	Yes, but I've been asked a question, so I'd like to answer it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u57	And you will be asked that question directly, not through the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u58	Yeah, so it's actually wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u59	Oh, excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u60	But, yeah, it's registered. However, the point is that the colleague in this house who has the most experience with lobbying said at his farewell interview with VNO-NCW: as a lobbyist you are like a heron on the side of the ditch. You're just gonna stand there and wait for a fish to pass by. They can't see you. That is precisely the added value of including those visits in that lobby register: it is nice if those herons are seen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u61	I think it is very special that you think that when a Member of Parliament speaks on a subject, he is not the one fish that has been taken away by a heron who stands on his side, and is going to defend that position. I haven't met them, and I've never met them. No way. Well... Let me not mention it, because you really would not fit that example. So I just disagree because it doesn't happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u62	My question is no longer about the lobby register, but about a point that was raised a little earlier and which I have been chewing on for a while. Mrs. Jorritsma indicated that, at the moment you have to think about your integrity, the norm is: can I tell the journalist, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u63	That's a standard. I realize that's a little short. But at least it's an easy one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u64	Mrs. Jorritsma, may I ask you to do your best to speak through the chairman? That'd be nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u65	I'm gonna do my best.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u66	I hadn't quite finished my question. My question was: isn't that a little thin, a little short? Are there not other values, rules or behavior agreements you could make with each other that give a little more color to that given, than just: can I tell a journalist or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u67	Of course. But if you have seen it correctly, you have of course also seen that we have a whole set of rules of conduct, which we have already published and which we think we should just stick to. These are agreements which relate in particular to the prevention or appearance of conflicts of interest. And occasionally you have to keep it under review; no misunderstanding about that. I was very pleased with the analysis that the Registrar has presented to us this week, in which the various codes of conduct and codes of conduct that we all have as political groups have been put together. I think it is worth an interesting attempt to see if we can make a code of conduct for the Chamber. That's still a job, because they all look a lot alike, but they're not all the same. At a later stage, we will have to discuss this further. Because if you do, then of course you have to agree how to monitor that. Should sanctions also apply if we do not comply with them? This raises the question of whether we should perhaps also have some kind of compliance officer. I have a commissioner with a comprehensive compliance system that you always have to pay attention to. Then you also have to look at which groups you leave at the level of the groups and which belong to the Chamber. And is what we have enough? We should take a closer look at that. I and my group believe that we should take this seriously. That's not a little thing; you're sweet with that for a while. It is probably also part of this that you should set up a committee of the Chamber, a more structural committee. That's a step you'll have to make. Mr. Chairman. We also think it wise to organise a session as senior citizens twice a year in which we discuss a number of dilemmas in terms of integrity. Again, it's not a black and white subject. It's certainly not a static subject. I was just saying that things that used to be accepted and found to be quite normal, can't be anymore. And that goes on and on; those sliding panels are still not standing still. It is therefore also good to consider each year whether a sliding panel has changed its position in such a way that the rules of conduct also need to be further adapted. I am also pleased that the new First Chamber will be given an introduction on integrity. It is also extremely sensible to do so in your group. We do the same in our group, and we have had good experience of it. We organised an internal session not so long ago. We must also do this more regularly, and we have agreed with each other. In addition, everyone can safely talk about dilemmas. And often interesting questions come to you: are we okay with that or are we not okay with that? Finally, Mr President. The lists for the upcoming elections are currently being drawn up. This time, drawing lessons from past incidents, the VVD has chosen to follow a very intensive process of screening and interviews before placing people on the list. It was interesting that the candidates were very happy about that. The panels will continue to slide, and so we will have to have this debate from time to time. And I'm fine with that! Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u68	Thank you. There is another question for you from Mr Kox, Mrs Jorritsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u69	One of GRECO's thoughts is that it would be a good idea not only to disclose what other functions a Member of a Parliament has, but also to mention the merits of this. This can give the public an impression of the importance of this function. I think that is a good idea and GRECO thinks it is a good idea. What does the VVD Group think about that? Here's what I'm gonna do. The members of this Chamber sitting in the Council of Europe are already faced with the Council of Europe's demand that, if you want to operate in it, you disclose your incomes and other earnings. Would the VVD be in favour of doing the same here?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u70	For the time being, we are not in favour of this, especially since many of us have a different main function. And if you're in a place where that function isn't published, it's really weird to do that here. Here's what I can imagine. Honesty requires me to say that I have already suggested this by mistake, but that has been removed again because it was not the custom. I imagine you'll mention whether you get a fee for the position or not, so whether the position is remunerated or unpaid.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u71	What would be against following the approach of GRECO and practice in many other countries and in the European Parliament? Then you say not only that you have a job somewhere, but also that you get a fee of so much per year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u72	It is against us having one day a week in this Parliament. If you spend two days working in the First Chamber, the other day doesn't necessarily have to be a weekday. That's why you usually have, very often, a full main course, except when you're at an age like mine. There is no obligation in this country to make all these jobs public. I would not like to impose that obligation on this Chamber either. By the way, membership of most Senates is a full-time function, along with a slightly different compensation, but that is fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u73	My question is not whether it has been made compulsory by others, but my question is whether it would be a good idea to say: but, of course, you can know that from us. This is also due to the exemplary role of a parliament and also to the need for all publicity. As a result, it is good to strive for as much transparency as possible. Would it be good to say that we have no secrets in this respect? Would it be good to say that I am in the Senate and that is my most important function, at least according to our Rules of Procedure, and I also have a number of other relations and these are the merits of this? What's against that? It's easy to say no, but what's the problem with doing it like that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u74	Firstly, I know quite a few Members who do not have exactly the same kind of merit every year. They have a business. So it is also extremely complicated. For the time being, I would simply like to state whether a job is remunerated or unpaid. That also seems very transparent to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u75	Thank you, Mrs Jorritsma. I give the floor to Mrs Sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u76	Mr. Chairman. My party colleague, the late Ien Dales, the former Minister of the Interior, put public administration integrity firmly on the agenda at the end of last century by stating that you are either integrity or not. She doesn't think there's a bit of integrity. With this, she has had a great influence on stimulating the debate on integrity in the Netherlands. Until then, there was a tendency to think that integrity in public affairs was not an issue in our country. Another party colleague, Ronald Plasterk, the former Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations, later nuanced Dales's firm statement, because the theorem "you are or you are not" is too black and white. Much better is to admit that there is a grey area, according to Plasterk. And so we see an interaction between developments in society and concepts of integrity. After all, integrity concerns behavior according to current moral standards, values and rules. This definition leaves room for interpretation. And this is desirable, because integrity is (partly) context dependent. Mr. Chairman. We discussed integrity in detail in the previous Chamber. The direct cause for this was a report by the Council of Europe's Group of States against Corruption (GRECO) on the prevention of corruption among parliamentarians. As a result, the Bröcker Committee drew up nineteen conclusions and recommendations which led to the introduction of a new chapter on integrity in our Rules of Procedure. Following the recommendations of this committee, most groups have put their own commitments on integrity on paper and made them public. They concern the openness of functions, the prevention of conflicts of interest and the code of honour of the PvdA for my group. We have signed the latter upon acceptance of our duties. My party also has a Committee on Integrity, which has the task of keeping the debate on integrity up to date. This debate is also topical in our Chamber. To this end, the College of Seniors discussed the issue of integrity in detail and an expert meeting took place. And the PvdA Group considers it important that we have a plenary debate on this today. Mr. Chairman. Members of the First Chamber usually perform other functions in addition to the membership of the Chamber. This enables them to look at legislative proposals and policy files with different glasses than the members of the House of Representatives, for whom membership of their Chamber is a full-time function. It is precisely through the appointment of other posts that Upper House members are in the middle of society. At the same time, this combination of functions makes senators vulnerable to the risk of conflict of interest. And that makes constant attention to integrity in our Chamber extra urgent. We are extremely grateful that a number of experts have given us some valuable advice during a round table on integrity in this Chamber. For my group, these make it clear that further rules of conduct are desirable. The rules on registration, such as those applied by individual groups, should be standardised in order to make them as transparent as possible. However, we believe that a distinction should be made between functions and roles arising from those functions. I will take myself as an example, to avoid the risk of pointing fingers at others. I am a professor of economics and within my professorship I fulfil the role of Vice-Dean of Education. Transparency about this role is important, as it would allow for a personal interest in certain higher education legislation. After all, having a job in a particular sector still tolerates being a spokesperson in the First Chamber in that area; having an administrative responsibility less or sometimes not at all. That is why transparency about roles is desirable, but it must be made clear that I do not carry out two functions, namely professorship and vice-deanship. The integrity agreements of my group also require that it be stated whether a job is remunerated or unpaid. This is also relevant in order to clarify a personal interest. For maximum transparency, it would also be possible to give kunnen or pay that remuneration. If I may give myself another example, I am a member of the Atria Supervisory Board. That's a paid job, but I'm paying that salary to my employer, Radboud University. Moreover, the fact that I am transferring that money to my university personally makes me less directly interested in financial matters, but not in general terms. The purpose of the additional code of conduct is to ensure that members of parliament serve the general interest and not the personal interest. That requires registration and communication of interests if there are any. At the same time, rules of conduct should clarify which functions are not accepted. The British Code of Conduct states: "No Member shall act as a paid lawyer in any proceedings in the House. (...) Taking payment in return for advocacy a particular matter in the House is strictly forbidden." It is therefore important to define the concept of "conflict of interest." It is therefore important to consider a highly personal financial interest of a member of the Chamber in a particular matter. Such a conflict of interest should be avoided as far as possible. If there is a conflict of interest, the result should be that the Member of Parliament concerned should refrain from dealing with certain activities in relation to the subject on which the conflict of interest arises. In this context, it is also useful to consider how decentralised representatives deal with this issue, because these are also part-time parliaments. For example, Article 12 of the Municipal Law provides an overview of acts that local council members are not allowed to perform, for example the conclusion of an agreement with the municipality on the taking of work for the benefit of the municipality. Relevant is also Article 28 of the Municipal Act, on the non-participant participation in votes. The State Committee on Parliamentary System therefore recommends that both Chambers should as far as possible align themselves with the rules already in force for municipal councils and provincial states on acts which are not admissible and on non-voting. We would like to see an elaboration of that recommendation. Mr. Chairman. Adequate enforcement of rules of conduct is essential to ensure the effective functioning of the supplementary rules of conduct in our Chamber. This requires a trusted person, to whom the members of the Chamber can ask for advice on integrity issues related to the membership of the First Chamber in the broadest sense of the word.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u77	Mrs. Sent is linking enforcement to a trusted person. I see the function of a trusted person more as someone to whom you can question whether certain functions are compatible and that kind of thing. But that's all working behind the scenes. In Mrs Sent's view, how does this relate to the enforcement function, which should also monitor practice and be able to act in it when it goes beyond the limits of the rules?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u78	I'm going to talk about that. There are actually three levels: confidential advice, public advice and enforcement. I will be speaking about that third level in a moment. I'm gonna go back for a second. This calls first of all for a trusted person to whom members of the Chamber may seek advice on integrity issues relating to membership of the First Chamber in the broadest sense of the word and which concern themselves or of which they are aware. This role has now been invested with the President of the First Chamber, but this has been criticised by GRECO because the President is not politically neutral and it is her/his role to lead the First Chamber. Where a trusted person acts in confidence, outside transparency plays an important role in integrity. For example, an opinion made public can contribute to legal certainty. In addition to confidential and public advice, supervision is necessary for compliance with registration obligations and the assessment of complaints about integrity violations. Such supervision of the code of conduct may be transferred to a standing committee from the Chamber or may be carried out by an external independent officer appointed by the Chamber. If internal regulation is sufficient, the risk of politicisation arises. That is why the House of Commons and the House of Lords have a Parliamentary Commissioner in charge of monitoring the registration obligations, explaining and explaining the rules of conduct and their evaluation. In the event of a complaint, the independent official concerned shall investigate and report to a standing committee responsible for compliance with the code of conduct. This system of maintaining the code of conduct has been functioning satisfactorily for years, says Professor Bovend'Eert. The advantage of involving an external body is that independence is strengthened. On this point, we feel supported by the recommendation of the Parliamentary Committee that the First Chamber should make an adequate provision for monitoring the completeness and accuracy of the registers. We would like to discuss an appropriate enforcement mechanism with regard to this code of conduct. And then it must be clear what sanctions can be imposed. The Rules of Procedure already make it possible to impose sanctions on members who disturb order in the Chamber meetings. As a result, it would also be possible to impose sanctions such as a reprimand on members who violate rules of conduct. This raises the follow-up question of appeals. Mr. Chairman. Where many of the above recommendations have previously been chosen to be held at group level, and many political groups have followed suit, the expert meeting will learn why these recommendations should be secured at chamber level. After all, integrity strengthens the trust and authority of our Chamber as a whole. As Professor Bovend'Eert writes: "The current party political approach to establishing and maintaining rules of conduct for Members of Parliament is non-binding and offers little guarantee. In today's practice, there are serious shortcomings due to the lack of a clear approach." Moreover, political parties formally have little or no control over MPs. GRECO also insists that it should not be left to the political groups themselves to ensure compliance. First of all, because there is no equality of treatment and, secondly, because you run the risk of politicisation. Of course, groups should continue to pay attention to this, but there is also a need for a regulation at the level of the Chamber. To this end, a uniform, thought-out and effective approach to integrity issues at the level of the Chamber should be formulated. What can count on consensus within the First Chamber needs to be unified. More generally, transparency is a minimum requirement in order to allow for a necessary discussion. And with the emphasis on the importance of dialogue, I come to a conclusion. Mr. Chairman. Because integrity is about moral standards, it is difficult to fully comprehend integrity in some rules. Enhanced integrity rules will not be sufficient to provide an appropriate response for each individual case. They will always be the starting point for a discussion or discussion on how to implement integrity in a concrete case. And the debate on integrity must always be kept alive. Integrity isn't just in rules that are neatly ticked off. Integrity is an attitude. That is the best thing for the time and the most topical if we, Members of this House, never avoid the discussion on this subject. My group is happy to contribute to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Sent. I give the floor to Mrs Baay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u80	Mr. Chairman. Today we are debating the concept of integrity in relation to the rules of the Rules of Procedure and the integrity codes already in force in the political groups. The concept of "integrity" is comprehensive and therefore somewhat vague. Ask a random person if he is integrity and if he considers integrity important and the answer will usually be affirmative. However, objectifying the concept of "integrity" remains difficult. In my search for its definition I came across this description: "Life is like newly fallen snow. Every misstep you make leaves clear traces." Does this mean that, when you apply a personal standard of moral and ethical values, to which you remain faithful at all times, you are guaranteed to make no mistakes and are therefore integrity? A variant of Shakespeare also appealed to me: no legacy is so rich as integrity. This reflects how essential integrity is. Mr. Chairman. 50PLUS supports the added value and importance of clear lines of integrity and has therefore drawn up an integrity protocol for its First Parliamentary Group last year. Subject to the codes of integrity determined by political groups, the integrity of the members of the First Chamber shall also be safeguarded by formal rules in the Constitution, the ordinary law and the Rules of Procedure of the First Chamber. Nevertheless, the Group of States against Corruption (GRECO) of the Council of Europe made recommendations to the Dutch Parliament in its fourth review round. Although the recommendations are not binding, the Netherlands as a Member State has an obligation to report from time to time on the level of compliance, so-called compliance, of whether or not to implement those recommendations. According to the second compliance report from the GRECO report dated 23 March 2018 the outstanding recommendations include the following: explicit guidelines on the interaction between First Chamber members and lobbyists, appropriate measures to ensure supervision and enforcement of Members' rules of conduct and the appointment of an external confidential person, whether or not in combination with a supervisor. My group believes that simply introducing a lobbyist register in the First Chamber has limited effect. Like other political groups, 50PLUS is in regular contact with persons or organisations who wish to explain their views on the legislative proposals to be dealt with. After all, a Member of the European Parliament should be as well informed as possible about the possible consequences of legislation in practice. It is precisely by gathering necessary information that a senator can take an informed view. When introducing mandatory registration of all conversations with lobbyists, etc. third parties will also have to be informed whether or not the original views of the Member of Parliament have changed after the discussion. But how is this measurable? Professor Bovend'Eert was right to ask the following questions during the round table of 18 December 2018. Can a Member of Parliament also act as a lobbyist as an ancillary function? Can he also use his lobbying activities for his parliamentary work? How do you prevent any appearance of conflict of interest, even if there is no direct or indirect influence? In principle, 50PLUS is certainly not against the adoption of further directives on dos and don'ts, how parliamentarians should deal with lobbyists, so that at least there is a uniform policy for all groups. Mr. Chairman. There is already a rule that a Member of Parliament should refrain from spokespersonship if it is also active in the sector covered by the legislative proposal, in order to avoid the appearance of conflict of interest. This does not have to be problematic in the case of larger groups. Then a member of the political group can speak. But that is not appropriate in smaller groups or one-man groups. Because that may mean that participation in a plenary debate is not possible, which means that you cannot speak on behalf of your constituents, which does not benefit democracy. I would like to hear how other groups are looking at this. This is also the case, mutatis mutandis, with a abstention from voting in the event of a personal interest. In such cases, the smaller or one-man groups are disproportionately affected in the performance of their role as representatives of the people. Of course, there must be uniformity in regulations for First Chamber members, regardless of the size of their group. The proposal to abstain from voting on a possible direct personal interest, which was discussed extensively during the round table, raised the following questions for my group. First of all, it is extremely difficult to differentiate what is or is not a "direct personal interest." Where is the boundary between the general interest or the individual interest? Is it sufficient to have a secondary function in a particular sector? Does this mean, when you work in, for example, the medical sector or the social lawyer, that you should abstain from voting on legislative proposals relating to them? In recent years, we have regularly experienced in this Chamber that with only one vote difference, so a very tight difference, a legislative proposal was passed. How does this relate to abstaining from a vote? Is there not the danger that having secondary posts could be exploited politically in order to deprive a Member of Parliament of his right to vote? My group wonders whether, in such a case, an explanation of vote can be sufficient. The relevant MP reports his involvement in the present legislative proposal, because he or she works in that sector. This promotes transparency, but does not prevent participation in votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u81	I share the questions and also the concerns of Mrs Baay-Timmerman. But at the same time, the state committee recommended this. Furthermore, in municipal councils and provincial states you also have the situation that it sometimes hangs on one voice. So all the questions you ask are also at local and regional level. Is Mrs Baay-Timmerman prepared to look into exactly what the differences and the possible justification would be to do differently here? Or does it exclude in advance that the First Chamber will work with such a system, in accordance with the recommendation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u82	I think there's a difference between local affairs and here in the Upper House. Indeed, the secondary functions of many senators raise the question of when to mention them or not, so that they become transparent. However, my group thinks that abstaining from the vote is in fact too far-reaching. As I pointed out earlier, at such a time, you are in fact excluded from smaller or one-man groups. Moreover, we are, of course, talking about legislative proposals which have a slightly different effect from, for example, in municipal councils.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u83	My group believes that this is a far-reaching measure. That should really be a high exception, but I am still looking for a better basis for a fairer situation. I am in favour of looking at what is precisely the difference when we go down this line of thinking and look at the recommendations of the State Committee. Because at regional and/or local level, it may as well be that a side function becomes very close to the subject on which the vote is based. There too, it can be decisive whether or not someone can take part in the vote. So I am not entirely convinced of the great difference between these situations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u84	Like Mrs Strik, I am looking at how to fill in the presence of ancillary posts. But voting is so essential that there should be very serious arguments for this. There should therefore be a completely personal and direct self-interest before my group would consider it. I was talking about giving an explanation of vote in order to indicate transparency that you may have a certain involvement in the legislative proposal. Or would such an explanation of vote raise more questions about the exact degree of involvement? But there is another question from my side to the Chamber as such. Would such an explanation of vote not raise more questions about the exact degree of involvement? Mr. Chairman. I come to the second recommendation on monitoring and enforcement mechanisms, linked to the question of whether intra- and inter-collegial monitoring is sufficient to ensure compliance with the rules. At present, a Member of Parliament may be called upon by his own group members or political party in the event of a breach of the rules of conduct, with the ultimate sanction being expulsion from the group. Yet the outside world interprets this internal supervision as "the butcher approves his own flesh." To remedy this, it is recommended to appoint an independent, external person appointed for a fixed period. Its task shall be to provide an advisory committee to be set up in the event of a breach of rules of conduct and conflicts of interest by or from members. On the basis of the non-binding opinion given, this Committee shall take a decision and have the possibility of linking sanctions to it. Such a form of external supervision strengthens the image of independence. However, my group raises the question of who should sit on such a committee. Are those MPs, for example, from each group one? Or persons from the organisation of the Chamber? And what happens if the opinion of the external person is not taken over by such a committee? Is the credibility and independence of the committee not affected in such a case? The Lower House has chosen to set up an independent, external confidant who has the task of advising MPs when they run into dilemmas. These opinions shall be confidential and shall not include sanctions. My group certainly sees the advantages of setting up an external trusted person, but at the same time notes that this does not break the image outwards, which lacks independent supervision. Mr. Chairman. Finally. Mr. Kleijssen noted during the round table discussion that as long as GRECO's recommendations have not been implemented by a country, this country will remain in a compliance procedure. Each time it is examined whether the country has now adopted the recommendation, as is currently the case with the Netherlands. However, once all recommendations have been taken over, GRECO will no longer report compliance. There is therefore no evaluation of whether the recommendations made are actually effective. This would be of added value in order to understand whether implemented recommendations actually deliver results for which they were designed. 50PLUS clearly recognises the essential importance of a uniform integrity standard for all MPs. My group will, if necessary, support its further development in the Rules of Procedure of the First Chamber. However, my group is in favour of this House itself carrying out a regular evaluation of the effectiveness and compliance with these additional rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u85	Thank you. Mrs Baay, you have to go back to the chair, because you will receive a question from Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u86	Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u87	There was a moment of confusion, but at least you're there. If I understand correctly, you are in favour of setting a code of conduct and, if necessary, guaranteeing it in the Rules of Procedure and so on. We have, of course, also discussed voting rights in this context. Here are democratically elected parliamentarians, who have been given the mandate of their electorate. Then it can't just be taken away from the right to vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u88	In fact, I have already given more or less an answer to that. The proposal is to deprive the right to vote if there is a direct personal interest in the present legislative proposal. My group is absolutely out of line at the moment. What I have already talked about in detail: especially in the case of smaller groups or even in the case of one-man groups, the democratic content is affected, because they will no longer be able to speak on behalf of their constituents about a legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u89	However, every time we vote on 75 Members of Parliament, we should check whether there is any direct personal interest. That seems very unworkable to me. Isn't it just a lot more convenient when parties think about who they put on such a list so you don't have any conflicts?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u90	Of course, I assume that each party will carefully draw up its list and also look at the side functions that someone has at the time. But you also know that people can change side functions during their term of office in the Upper House. I personally think that a side function can be perfectly combined with the First Parliamentary Membership. There is absolutely no need for friction. Once again, it is a matter of personal interest. That needs to be weighed up. My group proposes to make this transparent by giving an explanation of vote, so that it becomes clear to everyone that you do have a certain commitment but that you do not prevent it from voting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u91	Finally, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u92	I would just like to say that I think it is very far-reaching to withdraw the right to vote from a democratically elected parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u93	But that's not what Mrs Baay said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u94	Oh, sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u95	Mrs Baay didn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u96	Excuse me. You're right, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u97	There is confusion between Mrs Faber and me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u98	The confusion is now resolved. Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u99	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The First Chamber has been in existence for more than 200 years, but over the years this Chamber has changed its character. From conservative stronghold to the King, she has evolved into a final check on legality, effectiveness and feasibility of legislation designed by government and House of Representatives. Whether this is the best guarantee in 2019 can be discussed. We are going to talk about it when we come here, hopefully soon, to deal with the opinion of the State Committee on Parliamentary System. We're not doing that today. Today we are discussing, given the current task concept, whether our functioning can be better, more understandable and more transparent. The world outside this Chamber is asking us to do so. Reports since last summer from, among other things, Follow the Money have drawn attention to the special nature of our Chamber, with its indirectly elected and few well-known members, who together have a lot of political power and often occupy prominent places in relevant networks. Apart from this house, it is unclear to many whether there is or may be a conflict of interest and sufficient separation between legislative, judicial and executive powers. That raises questions. Are senators sometimes guided by other interests in their actions? Or are they perhaps using their function to influence decision-making? In short, how pure is that senate? Madam President. The flag did not immediately go out for the recent interest from outside. There was a slight moaning about the media and supported about misunderstanding. What was wrong with the jobs we all have here? Are these activities not the result of a part-time parliament? If you are no longer allowed to advise a minister on something you know or are involved in, then this Chamber can only be filled with babies and people who have never done anything, the chairman of the VVD group said a bit bossy. Needless to say, in the opinion of my group. If, at some point, Follow the Money counts 439 jobs and relations alongside Parliament's membership, then there are really a lot of them; and perhaps there are a lot too many. If more than half of the jobs and relationships that Members of Parliament have here are in addition to their membership, supervisory or administrative functions and concerns a significant part of the rest of the consultative work, then there is real reason to see whether this is and must be done. If some Members of Parliament do perform a lot of functions, it is fair to ask whether that is wise. We're grown-up people here. Then we must show no hedgehog behavior to avoid self-rection in this Chamber of reflection. As de Volkskrant wrote last year: "Now that the First Chamber is increasingly crucial to the effectiveness of the government, First Chamber members should not be surprised if voters want to know how they vote." Even at earlier times when comments were made on us from outside, some hedgehog behavior became visible, for example all around what I call the "wet-Irrgang." It limited the number of administrative positions in important companies and thus also touched quite a few members of this Chamber. Later, reports from Volkskrant, NRC, Nieuwsuur and EenVandaag on possible conflict of interest and controversial advice called for similar hedgehog behavior. When in 2013 the Group of States against Corruption, GRECO, in which the Netherlands cooperates structurally with the 46 other Member States of the Council of Europe to combat government corruption, commented on our functioning, the first reaction was also somewhat prickly. Fortunately, we quickly learned and set up a working group to closely review the comments made by GRECO and to adopt the recommendations where necessary. Last year's report by GRECO shows that this supervisor believes that our Parliament, and in particular this Chamber, has really improved its functioning in recent years after the previous report. That is good news and a good example for other GRECO Member States. On the other hand, however, we can and must improve even further, according to the same GRECO. Following the 2013 GRECO report, we have extended our Rules of Procedure to include the integrity chapter and most groups have drawn up an integrity code. This is appreciated by GRECO, but we do not yet have rules in this Chamber on how to deal with lobbyists. We do not yet have an obligation to disclose revenue associated with functions exercised by Members of Parliament in addition to membership. We do not yet have a monitoring mechanism for compliance with integrity provisions in our Rules of Procedure. We do not yet have an external confidant where MPs can go if they have questions or comments about integrity. It has to be, says GRECO. As I have already said, the recommendations of GRECO are not without obligation. Madam President. My group agrees with the recommendations made by GRECO and proposes that all the remaining recommendations be complied with in the short term. So we need to make public earnings that belong to functions that are performed alongside Parliament's membership, we need to make agreements on how to deal with lobbyists, we need to define how to organise supervision of our functioning and we need to decide who to appoint as an external confidant for questions of integrity. All this under the motto "why do difficult when it's easy." Madam President. It is claimed by some in this house that membership of the First Chamber is part-time. My colleague group chairman of the VVD is one of those who takes that view. That may be true, but my group does not see it as such. The Constitution doesn't say anything about part-time parliamentarians. According to the Constitution, the States-General represent the entire Dutch people and the States-General are divided into a Second and a First Chamber, with the last Chamber having all the powers of the former Chamber, with the exception of the right of initiative and amendment. Even though members of the First Chamber do not receive the same remuneration as members of the Second Chamber but 30% of them, all 225 members of the States-General are elected by the electorate and have the unique right to vote only for them on any national law proposed in the Netherlands. Not the number of hours spent preparing for that vote, but being allowed to cast that vote as such, is the essence of parliamentary membership, on the other side or here and every day of the week throughout the mandate. Even though we usually meet in this Chamber only one day a week, in my group's opinion, you are a Member of Parliament every day. In that light, any other function which is exercised in addition to the membership of the Chamber should be tolerated by that membership of the Chamber. That is exactly what the integrity chapter of our Rules of Procedure states: "Every member is aware of the interests he has other than as a member of the Chamber and is careful that these interests do not lead to the improper performance of his duties."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u100	There was one element in Mr Kox's speech that struck me. He started out, and I thought that was very nice about the Constitution. It gets forgotten sometimes. I think, from the point of view of his speech, that I should distill the following. The Constitution, the constitutional basis for the States-General and both Chambers, would result in that in any case it was not established that membership of the First Chamber was a part-time function. That's right; the Constitution doesn't say anything about that. In addition, the spirit of the Constitution should be interpreted in such a way that it would not be possible for a member of the First Chamber to carry out ancillary functions, simply because he is supposed to do so seven days a week, or let's say five days. I'm not sure that's what you meant. That's why I'm asking. I would find that a very interesting interpretation. I am looking at it in such a way that you may already suspect that this is not entirely mine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u101	That would certainly be an interesting interpretation of law scholars like to interpret it, but I didn't mean that and I didn't say that either. I just said that the Constitution does not have part-time parliamentarians and that an appeal to 'we are here but in part-time' for my group and for the Constitution has no value whatsoever. How much time you spend on your membership, you decide for yourself. That doesn't affect your responsibility in any way. My interpretation is so and no different, fellow English.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u102	I think it is from Mr Kox's remarks that he thinks that I do not agree with him on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u103	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u104	Okay. Because until now, I fully agree with you. You started by saying that we were not entirely in agreement, but I agree with this. Thank you, Mr President, for letting me ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u105	Through me, through me. Mr. Kox, proceed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u106	I referred to the statements made by Mrs Jorritsma who stressed in a number of interviews that being a Member of Parliament is part-time. In my opinion, this is not the case in any case under state law. But if we agree on that, Mrs. Jorritsma...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u107	There is a difference between a part-time job and the part-time performance of the First Chamber in terms of the functioning of the First Chamber. I have just said in my speech: on average, most Members will spend perhaps one or two days preparing to do so, but then you will have time. You can also spend it on another main function, albeit you are always a Member of Parliament. I agree with you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u108	If we agree that being First Parliament is not a function, but an election by the people, that is my line of reasoning above all. That is why I also quoted our Rules of Procedure, which indicate that all other activities must bear the responsibility for membership. It's not the other way around, that membership of the Parliament has to fit in a little bit. No, the membership of parliament is essential. Mr. Chairman. It is a fact that members of the First Chamber often have a lot of sense of business. We don't have to be ashamed of that. It's nice if we use that sense in assessing legislation. But if there's any doubt as to whether it's rubbing somewhere, then parliament should prevail. In that case, either the abrasive job, job or occupation, or the membership of Parliament, must be stopped. Even the appearance of conflict of interest must be avoided. If Members of Parliament join, they should therefore clean up their own and their party's requests with potentially difficult jobs and relations alongside Parliament's membership. Once we are here, we should be extremely reluctant to take on new jobs and relations. According to research by Follow the Money, almost half of the jobs and relationships given up after joining Parliament. That concerns my group. It is a fact that the government often appreciates the advice of expert members of the First Chamber. We do not have to be ashamed of that either. But these opinions should be heard from the government here, in the legislative process, and not through the participation of senators in government advisory committees. Also there is the case for us: when it sands, it has to stop. We think it is better that from now on ministers no longer ask senators to sit on advisory committees and that senators should say 'no, thank you' if they are asked for it. As Professor of Integrity Hans van den Heuvel says: Senators should not advise ministers; they should just check them. Or, as Professor Voermans says, if you advise the government as a Member of Parliament, there are double hats. That's right. Madam President. My group believes that they and other groups, together with their individual Members, are the first to be responsible for the actions of Members of Parliament. It is good that most groups now have integrity agreements that are public. It stands out and it is disappointing that the PVV does not consider such agreements necessary. It is advisable that we all take a critical look at whether we can improve these agreements on points. My group also likes to learn from other groups. That is why it is a good thing that, in the preparation of this debate, we were able to compare the integrity agreements of 11 of the 12 political groups. I ask the PVV once again to reconsider whether it would be better to say: yes, that is a reasonable requirement, especially if you have so many comments about the functioning of a parliament. It is a little too easy to say: we of toilet duck say that the standards and agreements the PVV has are good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u109	My question to Mr Kox is whether he considers it appropriate to establish such agreements at the level of the Chamber rather than at the group level.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u110	If that were possible, it would certainly be worthwhile, although I have the specific responsibility of the individual Member and the group very high. That fits our system, but Mrs Sent herself spoke of consensus. There is the problem, with the PVV: if the PVV does not participate, you cannot make decisions by consensus. Hence my serious appeal towards the PVV to comply with the recommendations made by ourselves with the support of the PVV and not to say after a number of years: we have recommended it to all of you and we think it's actually right that you all do it, but trust us on the color of the eyes. Is that color blue? No, green. That's a little too easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u111	I wholeheartedly support that call.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u112	Thank you. I am convinced that the PVV can also talk about moving insights. Madam President. People's representatives will be given their mandate by the electorate and will act as they see fit. Only the electorate or their party may terminate that mandate. That's good, too. Our Rules of Procedure can give direction, but can only force little. We could also find it difficult to live with the idea that one parliamentarians could sanction the other. I know parliaments where they can. That often leads to incorruptible scenes. What can and must be done is to ensure optimum transparency so that voters and the media can see how a Member of Parliament acts. That is why, as far as we are concerned, in addition to an overview of remuneration received by a Member of Parliament for his other jobs and activities, it should also be indicated whether and how a Member of Parliament has interests in companies through shares and bonds, not because that is prohibited but because it is good to know. If contact is sought with us to promote or prevent a particular legislation, it is appropriate and in line with GRECO that we mention it in a lobby register, so that everyone can see it. It is often a coming and going of people, especially on Tuesdays. In itself, everyone here is very welcome. A representative of the people should not be excluded from the outside world, but should not be allowed to be wrapped up in it. Where industry and civil society are working hard on professional lobbying, we must be professionally opposed to this. That starts with openness. A lobby register can help with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u113	I have to ask a slightly less sympathetic question; I'll say that in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u114	I can't imagine you asking a non-sympathetic question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u115	Yes, even I can, exceptionally. I take note of your remark that parliamentarians, including First Members of Parliament, ultimately derive their ultimate mandate from an election; in other words, from the electorate. Then you have a whole line of reasoning about functions, ancillary income and so on, but if that value of the basis of a people's representative, namely a mandate of the electorate, is at the forefront, then how am I supposed to rhyme with the system in your party that people's representatives are obliged to pay their income to the party, for which they will then get something in return from the party? Is this not contrary to the free mandate which people's representatives, including in your own words, have in principle on the basis of that democratic mandate? How are we supposed to see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u116	Perhaps Mr Engels should see that a little better than he is now saying, because, of course, the payment of part of your compensation to your party is always essentially a voluntary matter. There's no other rule imaginable that you should. I also thought that D66 had such an arrangement, as well as the Labour Party, GroenLinks and perhaps also the CDA. But this is always a voluntary matter. If a MP says "I won't," he won't. The fact that you are then outside the rules of that organisation may be a consequence, but you had a good view: payments are always voluntary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u117	It seems, therefore, that it is a misunderstanding and that it is also up to me to say that it is an obligation to give that to the party and not a voluntary contribution. So that's based on a misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u118	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u119	Anyone who fails to comply will therefore have no consequence whatsoever.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u120	I find that strange. If you meet in your party, perhaps in Mr.English's too, it is considered reasonable to make a certain contribution to the work of that party, which also makes it possible for you to be elected, that you can do your job, that you can have your education and so on, and if you don't keep that agreement, it seems to me that that will have consequences in your organisation. I can't imagine it any other way if you meet with all of them. But that's different than making you have to give up your salary or part of your salary. But I can recommend D66 to consider whether a voluntary arrangement is conceivable in the party to finance the party's activities, because you have a lot of advantage in this and I am very proud that the SP has had such a scheme since it was founded.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u121	Still, I don't quite understand, because you have a free mandate, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u122	Can Mrs Faber explain what the fine slogan she says, "you have a free mandate" means?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u123	Mr. Kox said you make appointments in your party and you have to stick to that framework. But you're here with a free mandate, aren't you? That bite each other, doesn't it? So I don't quite understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u124	By saying something, it's not true yet, Mrs Faber. I'm here as MP of the SP. I have been chosen for my party and in my party I make agreements about what I think, what I say and what I want. I don't think of all that here on the spot. We have an election program for that. We also make agreements about how we are organised, as other parties do, as I said. The big problem is that I cannot check how that is done in Mrs Faber's party. There they do not make agreements or agreements, but one thing is certain: we will not be allowed to know. Instead of asking Mrs Faber on the basis of which I am standing here, I would rather hear from her why her party wants to be so secretive that we should not know whether there are any agreements in that party about integrity and why, if those agreements are already there, we should not know them. That's a really more serious question. As far as "a free mandate" is concerned, read the Constitution again. It lays down exactly how we should perform our duties here. That's one of my favorite books, the Dutch Constitution. Finally, Mr President. My group knows that integrity is a beautiful but also difficult concept. Not everything can be caught in rules. You don't have to. Parties that run for election are the first to be able to speak for the virtues of those people, in addition, of course, to those involved themselves. It is up to the electorate to take care of those parties who use it. That is also the main sanction, and we must keep it that way, but in the opinion of my group, GRECO's proposals are all reasonable and can be designed by us in our own way. Between doing nothing and rigging up a lot of bureaucracy, there's more than enough room for reasonable solutions. Well, let's do it, then. My group is very much in favour of making arrangements to meet the wishes of GRECO as best as possible. In doing so, we are setting an example to other Member States. I would prefer to see our Parliament as an example rather than a parliament that is lagging behind.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u125	I would like to ask Mr Kox a question about dealing with lobbyists. That point has now passed a few times. You, too, call for a register, for registration. That's what you're pointing out very strongly. The discussion might be more about how you deal with lobbyists. This has just been discussed in this debate with Mrs Jorritsma's contribution. You can register, but then what? It's about how you deal with it in the end. The House of Lords Code of Conduct says that lobbying can sometimes lead to the suspicion of inappropriate influence on parliament and that you should therefore be aware that such perceptions can arise. We now have in our Rules of Procedure that famous Rule 12 is: be aware of conflicts of interest. Would it not be enough if we had some sort of rule of: are you aware that dealing with lobbyists can create the picture of an inappropriate influence on parliamentary work? That's what it starts with. I think that beginning is more important than having a register. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u126	I think it starts with that. Mr Kuiper is right about this, but GRECO said it to us five years ago. GRECO believes, also on the basis of its experience elsewhere in Europe with other Member States, that the Dutch Parliament could take a step further. The House of Representatives is currently examining the possibilities for this. I think we should do the same. I can't tell you exactly what that's gonna look like. I'm not an expert. I also have the impression that my party is being lobbied a little less than other groups. So maybe that's where I can learn. But I think we should do it. It's a little naive to think as a parliament that we're free from outside pressure. There have recently been a number of legislative proposals and there are a number of legislative proposals that we are being approached to see if our voting behaviour can be affected. It's okay. Anyone can do that, but I'd like to have it transparent. If GRECO constantly insists that we really have to do better than we do now, then throwing your ass against the crib is not the right attitude. You can say: tell us how to do that. We can go to Belgium, France, Germany and Spain to see how they did it there and see if we can take it over. All this taking into account that our Senate is a different Senate than elsewhere. But to say 'we're not doing it, because we're not ready for it' I tasted that a little bit in the discussion with Mr Jorritsma, I find too easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u127	We have also discussed it in our group. It is rather complicated, because there are all kinds of ways in which we are in contact with people who say something to us or want something from us in the run-up to dealing with a bill here. Do you have to keep track of all that and what kind of administration doesn't that take? So we find that complicated, too. I'm not against it. If a road can be found, I say, well, let's look at that. However, I think it is even more important that we should express a kind of general principle about this, in the sense that I just read it here. It was then noted that there is still a difference between lobbyists who pay for it and others who are unpaid here for a certain social interest. That, too, should be taken into account in dealing with lobbyists, and you should also be transparent about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u128	I agree with Mr Kuiper that it is not so simple yet, but we are not really in politics for simple things. Then you could really just leave it to the people. So we're here to solve difficult problems. I would point out that, according to GRECO, it is a reasonable desire of a Member State or parliament to do so and that there is therefore a whole series of Member States that have done so. I would like to think that we actually know a little bit better than people in other countries, but in this case I am prepared to just listen to how it is organized in other countries and to see if there is a model that does not create a huge bureaucracy but otherwise meets the wishes of an organisation that we ourselves are part and parcel of; we have created it ourselves. So I think that saying no in this case is not a good directive. To say that we do want to and ask how we should do it, using best practices, I think is the best way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u129	There is no doubt that it is important to consider whether and how such a lobby register should be established. I've gotten a little confused myself. Mrs Jorritsma mentioned this afternoon that a lobby register is nothing but a pass register. When I hear Mr. Kox, I sense that he thinks: it shouldn't be rigged too much, but you should actually call everyone who comes along at some point. But do you have to do that once, when an organization is mentioned once, it's okay? Or do you have to keep track of it all the time, which gives a much better view of the strength and gravity of a lobby? In other words, what would Mr Kox's idea be about such a provision of a lobby register?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u130	My thought would be to say to GRECO: yes, we want, do you have for our best practices of a parliament that is similar to us in its nature, size and manner and do you want to inform us of that data? Jan Kleijssen has offered it here: you are a Member State, so if you want to have advice on how things can be put into practice, we are prepared to give it. No, of course I'm not gonna tell you exactly how it should be. If GRECO wants it from us, we may also ask GRECO to give us some examples from which we can choose. On balance, it is better to say: we want it; tell us how it could be done, then we can consider it. We are allowed to shape it ourselves, Jan Kleijssen of the GRECO also said here. That is better than saying: we do not yet see it in front of us, so we do not do it. The recommendation has now been repeated for the second time. I would not be in favour of being reminded of it a third time, but I would like us to say instead: we have listened and we are working on it. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u131	Thank you, Mr. Kox. I give the floor to Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u132	Mr. Chairman. Today we are holding a special debate in our Chamber, namely about ourselves, our integrity in relation to our role as co-legislator and representative of the people. The fact that we are debating our own integrity today, openly, is a good step towards a more transparent and conscious way of working for senators, now and in the future. Our group believes that the search for maximum transparency and the prevention of conflicts of interest, including their appearance, are fundamental principles for this debate. This debate has not exactly arisen out of nothing. The integrity watchdog GRECO has been particularly critical of integrity enforcement in the Upper Chamber for years, in particular the lack of a code of conduct and enforcement mechanisms and the lack of internal controls on political parties. In addition, the First Chamber has recently been regularly consulted on alleged conflicts of interest and lack of compliance with the registration obligations. Integrity violations by representatives of the people and their appearance contribute to the waning confidence in politics. We therefore welcome the first steps taken by the Chamber with the measures mentioned by the President at the start of this debate. This shows that it is good to take a critical look at ourselves, at the codes and at the rules. As far as our group is concerned, this public debate could be a next step in a process in which we jointly lay down our rules on monitoring and enforcement mechanisms. This will not only increase confidence in this Chamber, but also ensure that senators play their role as co-legislator as purely as possible. At present, integrity rules are largely left to the political groups, with different disadvantages. Firstly, there are divergent rules and practices: what is acceptable in one can be not done in the other. This creates confusion, because there is no uniformity or equal treatment, and because its own codes of conduct are often generally drawn up. In the absence of a detailed explanation, it is not clear what these rules mean in concrete terms: when a group thinks that there is a mix of interests, what ancillary functions are exactly permissible or what activities are considered undesirable in relation to our legislative task. In most cases there are no substantive standards: the codes of conduct regard procedural rules in particular as communication and consultation. Because the outcome of the case discussions which then take place within a group is usually not understandable to the outside world, it often continues to be guessed at the substantive standardisation that a group uses. Nor are there always internal control and sanction mechanisms, which can increase the risk of politicisation. Perhaps, because of fear of the resignation of a member of the political group, groups would like to avoid a sanction as a result of a change in political relations. Secondly, it lacks an adequate way of addressing each other in certain ways, while the entire institution of the Senate bears the consequences of acts or behaviour that are at odds with the required integrity. The confidence in this Chamber, and in politics as a whole, therefore depends on individual choices and actions of members. By establishing common rules, we can better fulfil our shared responsibility for that trust. Rules can also help to ensure that our role as legislator is not hindered by other interests, so that the examination of legislative proposals can only be based on substantive and political criteria. The process of drawing up such rules alone will increase awareness of the different roles and interests and thus contribute to a professional attitude. Our basic rules are now mainly related to the disclosure of ancillary functions, gifts and financial interests. As far as our group is concerned, we in the Chamber are considering extending these rules, for example as regards the communication and updating of financial, special or other interests, a lobby regulation and a definition of types of side functions which are by definition not desirable, for example paid lobbying activities. The Code of Conduct of the House of Commons could serve as an inspiration. Mrs Sent has just explained a number of criteria. When asking what is admissible or not, one of the criteria is also what a "resasonable member of the public" thinks of something. Is something acceptable or not? Mrs. Jorritsma mentioned the media. What does a normal thinking person actually think is logical or pure? It could also be considered whether information on the level of remuneration of ancillary activities should be provided. Mr Kox has just argued in favour of this. I admit immediately that a financial interest represents only one form of interest. In addition, standards are in place on the extent to which we allow senators to be involved at an earlier stage of a legislative process. My group believes that a direct advisory function prior to the submission of a legislative proposal can no longer allow a senator to carry out his task of scrutiny freely and independently. But what criteria exactly do we apply? How direct should this involvement be? A further concreteisation and tightening-up would be helpful here. The question also arises as to what consequences a possible involvement might have. Should this lead to the waiver of spokespersonship, participation in a vote or even the waiver of parliamentary membership? In this process of thinking, we will also have to discuss the proposals of the Remkes Committee, which suggests, among other things, that they should be linked to the rules of municipal councils and provincial states. There too, by definition, there is a combination of political and other functions. In this Chamber it is said quite quickly that this comparison is flawed, but why exactly? What's the distinctive criterion? We will have to look into that and account for it. If we choose different rules, then it is logical that we argue and justify the differences. Behavioural rules have never been laid down in concrete and will have to be interpreted in each individual situation, because the purpose and not the rule itself is central, and because the standards too are often said to be able to breathe with the spirit of time. Case studies, for example on conflicts of interest, will enable us to achieve a more concrete implementation of standards. We will then come to the question of who is at the forefront and how best to ensure compliance with these rules. Of course, my group holds politicians first and foremost responsible for making the right choices, supported by their group, but sees an important role for the Chamber as a whole to ensure that this is done properly and that this is reflected in public. Then it is ill-advised to leave it alone with the possibility of speaking to each other as colleagues about compliance with it. It is in our DNA that our legislative proposals not only check the content of rules, but also their enforcement. Why would this be different with our own rules? The importance of compliance is too great. Doing so would also give the outside world the opportunity to get rid of possible complaints or signals from a superior supervisor. This not only contributes to a more conscious or impartial approach, but also to a more open communication with society. I am thinking not only of the media such as Follow the Money of Lubach on Sunday, but also of individual citizens and even other Member States of the Council of Europe. The credibility of the Netherlands in criticising other countries for not adopting recommendations from the GRECO is no better of an attitude that the GRECO has nothing more to tell us. Implementation of its recommendations would be important just to support the much-needed authority of the GRECO. These recommendations leave enough room for an interpretation that suits our institute. Surveillance is one of them. In the view of my group, supervision should ideally be organised in a committee of some Members of Parliament, in cooperation with an independent office holder who is, among other things, rapporteur and advisor. This independent officer could also monitor the registration obligations and provide an explanation and explanation of the rules of conduct and their evaluations. The independent official concerned could investigate a complaint and advise that committee of MPs. That prevents colleagues from investigating each other's behavior. That is not only unpleasant, but it can also give the impression that one is holding one another's hand over another or that it can lead to a mix with political interests. Independent research and advice would also provide the necessary transparency for society. Such built-in independence will hopefully lead to a reduction in the appearance of conflict of interest and a greater awareness of integrity among politicians. This ultimately contributes to greater confidence among citizens and to the authority of this Chamber and the public office we carry out. Such supervision also enhances the legal certainty of representatives of the people, as they are given greater clarity as to the correctness of a side function or an act. If the Chambers Committee or the independent office-holder concludes that there is no conflict of interest, there is an objective view that a possible public debate may stop or preferably close. Maximum transparency of the whole process, including the complaint procedure, is very important in order to promote that legal certainty for politicians and to avoid the appearance of conflicts of interest. We cannot do this by secret procedures or merely with the figure of a trusted person working behind the scenes by definition. A trusted person has another valuable role, for example for politicians who want advice on a particular choice. As far as we are concerned, we also follow the recommendation of the GRECO that it should be an external figure. The current practice, in which our President does it, also creates an impression of 'we among ourselves'. Moreover, it may also be a matter for the Member of Parliament himself. Why should we not join the trust committee of the House of Representatives in this case?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u133	I fully agree with what Mr Strik says, but I would also like to say here that at least I have the impression that the way we have done it so far, with the President as our confidant, has actually worked very well. Otherwise, the impression is that things have to be different now because things didn't go well. No, I think there's another way, because it's better now. I would have liked to have said that we should not do something because it is not good, but that it can be better and that is why I would like to see it happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u134	I very much welcome Mr Kox's intervention, because I fully support it. This has nothing to do with the personal functioning, but more with how an outsider would look at it and what the importance of such a trusted person is. That should, by definition, be an external person, because that is why all Members can go there. Otherwise, one is already concerned with the fact that she holds that position. Thank you for that intervention. Moreover, as far as our group is concerned, it would be up to the committee of the Members of Parliament itself to decide, on the basis of a report, to warn or sanction an affected Member or to give an opinion on certain behaviour or an act. Although sanctions are common in other parliaments in Europe, the Netherlands is reluctant to respond to them. Well, that's understandable. In response to the GRECO recommendations, the Dutch Government has argued, inter alia, that, although both Chambers have considered the issue of monitoring and enforcement of the integrity rules, it would not be constitutionally possible to suspend or force MPs to resign for breach of the integrity rules. The GRECO has criticised this position and indicated that it is incomprehensible that less far-reaching sanctions, such as rebuke or suspension of participation in certain sessions or meetings, could not be imposed as is possible in the case of infringements of the Rules of Procedure of both Chambers in respect of breach of the obligation of professional secrecy. Here too, we are obliged to the authority of the GRECO and our own interest in complying with the rules in order to examine more closely why such sanctions could not be applied.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u135	I have a question about these sanctions. I'll just say right away: I'm an economist, so I like stimuli. But that is of course not entirely relevant in this discussion. What is relevant, however, is that there are often remedies for sanctions. I am very curious to see how Mrs Strik sees that in mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u136	I agree that it should always be possible for a Member of Parliament to appeal or oppose such a decision in any way. But that can also be in case of a judgment, for example. Someone may have the need to want something. That doesn't just have to be the case with a sanction. As far as I am concerned, there should be the possibility of hearing and hearing in that process itself. That should not therefore take place only after a judgment has been given. That, I think, is very important. But of course it is true that the more intrusive such a decision becomes, with sanctions, the more important it is for someone to be able to oppose it again, perhaps with another body or figure. I haven't worked that out here at all. But I think it is important that if we go out of that direction, if we go further, we should consider how best such a enforcement mechanism could look. Let's see where I left off. How do you maintain without the threat of possible sanctions? Why do we think, unlike many other countries, that we can be satisfied with judgments without further consequences? Such intrusive questions require a satisfactory answer. Which means I haven't finished right here. Our chambers are not characterised by corruption scandals; we are an example for many countries in this respect. But that does not, of course, justify the fact that we do not have a mechanism in case things go wrong. Enforcement mechanisms also have a preventive function, because they show that we take our rules seriously. Mr. Chairman. My group welcomes this debate, which we see as an important step towards common principles on integrity guarantees for the exercise of the First Chamber's membership. A second step, as far as we are concerned, is the establishment of substantive and procedural standards and the way in which we protect, respect and enforce these standards. If we provided the Chamber with an adequate system for this term of office, we would be doing the new Chamber a great service. I understand that this is a very high ambition, because it requires a lot of thinking. It can leave the current discussion behind and devote itself to the legislative task, knowing that they are protected and corrected in matters that affect their integrity. The power of the First Chamber lies in the actual practical experience that we bring. After all, we are all one-legged in society, and that benefits our key role. At the same time, this strength can become a weakness if we are blind to the vulnerability that it brings. So let us take the legitimate concerns in that same society seriously, so that our unique strength and added value can be even better realised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u137	Thank you, Mrs. Strik. I give the floor to Mr Engels.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u138	Thank you, Madam President. During this period of office, it has been found that the First Chamber is not a quiet sitting place. The increased debate on the position and role of the Senate has proved to be the starting point for the establishment of the State Committee on Parliamentary System, which has recently issued the final report entitled "Low Thresholds," high dikes. One aspect which has attracted a great deal of attention over the past year is the question of the integrity of Members of Parliament, particularly the risks of conflict of interest or its appearance. My group was co-initiator not to linger as a First Chamber in defensive reactions to the vented criticism, but to pick up the gauntlet and reflect on how we as a Chamber deal with whether or not supposed integrity violations and conflicts of interest. Today's debate is an important part of this process. Why is it important to have this debate? The confidence of citizens in parliament is not self-evident. When the suggestion is raised that senators do not act with integrity and are asked questions about a bias of legislative decision-making by direct or indirect interests, this affects confidence in the Upper Chamber. As a result, there is a risk of loss of authority and public trust. In that light, the question arises as to whether we can be satisfied with references to the special nature of the First Parliamentary Membership. As a chambre de réflexion, we are pleased to announce that we are focusing first and foremost on the legality and feasibility of legislative proposals, drawn up in an impressive list of test criteria such as treaty conformity, constitutionality, principles of proper legislation, consistency and enforcement. Against this background, it seems difficult to imagine that members of the First Chamber would have the slightest contest to be guided by prejudice of any kind. But there's a complication that puts this assumption under strain. Also to the outside world has now been pushed through that in this house is also done politically. And this political reality relativizes the long-cherished self-image of a senate of great independence. In my view, this means that it is not sufficient to refer, in the case of questions raised about the integrity of senators, to the special nature of First Chamber membership and the special position of the First Chamber as an institution. Mr. Chairman. Within my group, too, it has long been thought that purity of action is primarily a question of internal group hygiene. In order to increase self-reflection and self-limitation of external activities, we have developed and published for ourselves a directive on integrity in order to avoid conflict of interest and the appearance of conflict of interest. This Directive lays down internal control arrangements on personal circumstances which pose a risk to the integrity of the exercise of parliamentary membership, on the avoidance of spokespersonships which directly and/or in a personal sense affect main or secondary functions, on commercial or interest-bearing functions which may lead to a public debate on the combination with membership of the First Chamber, on contacts with lobbyists, on work visits where a member of the political group can reasonably suspect that such a discussion may arise and on financial contributions to foreign work visits and on the taking of funds under First Chamber membership other than legal fees and the taking of gifts or gifts. Finally, integrity and the risks of conflicts of interest or their appearance constitute a fixed point for regular discussions. This has certainly helped to improve transparency and, above all, clarity within my group. Mr. Chairman. In our ranks too, there has long been the belief that the autonomy of political parties is a great asset and that self-correction would be sufficient to manage discussions about the integrity of the group. Of course, my group supported the internal agreements submitted in response to the GRECO reports and supported the amendments to the Rules of Procedure. So far, my observation is that, as Chamber and Members of Parliament, we have trusted that we know our responsibility for acting with integrity and that we know what we can and can not do. As a result of the discussions we had as group chairmen on this subject and the views given to us during the round table with external experts, I have to say that there is nevertheless a need for further reflection. On this point, the Committee on Parliament's Rules of Procedure has proposed, among other things, that the monitoring of the registration of posts other than parliamentary membership should be improved and that the Chamber should comply with existing rules on non-acceptable acts and voting, as laid down in the Province and Municipal Laws, for example. That has rightly been mentioned here before. In other words, the way in which we ourselves are trying to protect the integrity of the Chamber and Members of Parliament from the outside is not convincing in every respect. There is some doubt as to whether the First Chamber does not rely too much on its own strength and the wise insight of members of the political groups, of the party, and on the self-cleaning capacity of the Chamber itself. This doubt is detrimental to the stature and image of the Upper House. Now that we are completing a process of rethinking today, it seems to me appropriate, on behalf of the D66 Group, to try to make some proposals on how the First Chamber can strengthen the monitoring of its integrity. These proposals can also serve the rest of GRECO's outstanding recommendations. The first proposal is to come, it's not original, fortunately I've heard it a lot today, so that looks promising in one general code for the Chamber and the Members of Parliament. My group would like to make an agreement with all the other groups today that we, of course through the chairman, ask the Registrar, on the basis of the various internal group directives and suggestions put forward by a number of experts on this point, to draft a general code of conduct for the First Chamber, which can serve as a tool for monitoring integrity and avoiding conflicts of interest, or the appearance of conflicts of interest. This, in our view, provides the possibility of achieving uniform rules of conduct with as clear a definition as possible, regardless of political parties. This institutionalized form of self-regulation by the Chamber accentuates the fact that, as members of the First Chamber, we are not only representatives of the people with a free mandate, but also public officials with an external responsibility. Moreover, codes of conduct do not have the status of a general binding rule. They can best be characterized as decisions sui generis with a primary self-binding character. Therefore, a specific basis of competence is not necessary, but may be established, if necessary, by the power conferred on it by Article 72 of the Constitution to adopt a Rules of Procedure. I see Mr Kox, a great connoisseur of the Constitution, nodding. I'm glad. This raises the question of enforcement or compliance with such a code of conduct. My group does not feel that, in order to enforce the rules of conduct, it should be possible to impose formal sanctions in the sense of reprimands, suspensions or the exclusion of meetings. At first sight, that sounds very attractive from the point of view of effectiveness, but it presents a not insignificant risk of politicisation. Politicisation through internal protection within the political groups, politicisation because compliance with established rules of conduct is influenced by the fear that a member of the political group might split up on the basis of the free mandate, politicisation because coalition interests could be compromised and politicisation by otherwise party politics through integrity issues. However, we are sensitive to the suggestion put forward in the expert meeting that we should not confine ourselves to peer review. In this light, we believe that a form of external and objective review or monitoring could be of value. On this point, my group does not yet envisage a detailed modality, but is very much in favour of the figure of a committee of conduct with external members, which can give opinions on the interpretation of the code of conduct and assess complaints for possible violation of it. A general or more specific form of a reporting obligation may also be considered in this context. A second proposal from the D66 Group is therefore to have, through the chairman, the Registrar develop a concept for this figure, if necessary with some variants, which can help us to come to such a figure in the end. Mr. Chairman. I shall be happy to take the views and proposals of my fellow Members to my attention today. I've already done some of that, but we're not done yet. Of course, I hope that my group's proposals or similar proposals from other groups will be accepted and can lead to a result that we all say we have started something with this process, but we have also come out of something. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u139	Mr. Engels makes positive proposals, in which we also see a lot. However, I do have a further question for those external actors who need to report and advise. Could Mr Engels elaborate a little more on the relationship between MPs and external actors? For example, should there be a committee to which these external actors report? And who will ultimately have to take a decision as a consequence or as a conclusion from such reports and opinions?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u140	It's very simple. I have tried to indicate a direction, because I think we should try today to make a decision that could lead to further steps. We're about half the debate. So far, at first sight, I have seen similar proposals in all kinds of modalities and variants. Also some I hadn't reflected on myself at all. So I'm very reluctant to respond immediately. I have decided not to fall into this case, but also not to anticipate too much of certain modalities. I want to keep my own freedom to think about it. I want to keep the freedom to talk to my group about it. So I would like to indicate the direction in which we should think, but I am open to possible variants other than those I myself have in mind or whose contours I have shown. I am not going to discuss this with you now. That's in your own best interest, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u141	That last one, I'm glad. I feel really protected by Mr. English. But I can imagine that in thinking about these possible constructions or models, the relationship between MPs and externals becomes a very important one. Let's start exchanging wise things with each other on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u142	You're absolutely right about that. I understood the questions very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u143	Through the chairman, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u144	What do you say, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u145	Through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u146	Yes, Madam President. I would like to give sufficient weight to Mrs Strik's questions, because they are relevant and important, I think, but I have not yet been able to crystallize enough for myself what specific direction we should take. If we can first come up with the proposals that have been made today and then we should have a further process, then I am prepared to talk about all kinds of variants and modalities in that direction. I have already noted that I will give a certain priority to your suggestions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u147	I'm very happy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u148	I think this attitude is good. Today we don't make decisions. Today we are discussing in plenary the problems that have arisen. We offer suggestions for possible solutions. I wonder what we're gonna do in second term. Mr Engels' proposal to consult the Registry through the chairman is a possibility. A working group GRECO-II could be another possibility. This is how we dealt with the problem last time. I would like to ask Mr Engels about something I have raised and what has also been in the publicity, namely to what extent it is wise for members of the Senate to participate in committees of opinion in the government. Nothing is forbidden, but the question is whether the legislature should advise the executive power, after which the legislature must decide. This has been suggested several times in the media. My suggestion to the government would be: ask the senators for advice, but here. To the senators, the suggestion would be to say to the government: if you want advice, please, but that's what we're doing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u149	I heard you say that; I also understand why. By the way, in the preliminary stage as a Seniors' College, we have been able to speak quite freely about all kinds of suggestions that have been made about how senators deal with this. As I said, I intend not to be drawn out of the tent today in order to return to it and publicly give all kinds of judgments about case positions. This is a theoretical case position. I have indicated what our integrity directive looks like and how we deal with it. I would like to say this in advance, because I believe that we need to take further steps now. To the extent that such a case would be discussed in our group, I can assure you that the D66 Group, as long as I am the leader of the political group, will handle it very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u150	I like that answer. I didn't bring them in, and I don't want to come up with what happened now. My proposal concerned the future. Let's see if we can get a clear line: if you want advice, government, you're very welcome to ask us. That is what the legislative process is for. If we are asked, we can say to the government; thank you, but wait for the debate in the First Chamber. I think it would be a good idea for all the groups to think about it, because if we can give a clear signal, not now, but in the near future, it is clear to the government as well. Once again, I said that we should not be ashamed that we understand many things and that the government would like to involve us, but that we have our separate roles. The government should not ask us what it should not ask us to do. That's my line of thinking.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u151	Secondly, I am giving the same answer here, or perhaps something else, as to Mrs Strik. I think the question is absolutely relevant. I don't want to make any misunderstandings about that. It's a question you can't just answer one-two-three with a yes or no. Every case is always different. That's the problem. If you say that you certainly want to raise this point when we come to a follow-up process, you will have to accept from me that I have promised Mrs Strik that, as far as I am concerned, her points will be at the top of the list. I'll put yours right under. No problem. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u152	Thank you, Mr. English. I give the floor to Mr Brinkman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u153	Mr. Chairman. It is a good thing that you wanted to set up our life as members of this high house in consultation with the members of the Senior Encounter. Trust in politics and its minions is not self-evident. Unfortunately, but true. Perhaps someone in the public gallery will say: why do you start by using the word "handler"? Well, Van Dale is the first to give a positive meaning, namely to assist another in his professional work. That is, therefore, in our case, to serve general and not self-interest in the performance of our duties, our duties. So according to the ancient rule of Horatius: integrity vitae scelerisque purus. That is: of unspoken walks of life and free of guilt. Since the beginning of our era, there has been a great deal of talk about this moral rule, and that should not stop, because rules and codes and review committees, however useful and necessary, must always be tested for their practical effect every time ordinary people of flesh and blood are examined with their public actions or omissions and the light of public opinion and their accomplices. Time and time again, it can be seen whether there is clear approval or disapproval in place. In the meantime, political companies are not completely neutral, however much most people have a certain picture of what is notoriously good or bad. But one considers climate policy superfluous and the other cannot wait. There are those who see too many immigrants around them and there are those who want more. Some want cows in the meadow and on their plates, others want to reduce the livestock. And so on. Then what is the right moral judgment towards those who are on either side? Over time Horatius' old rules have been summarized as: keep "wickedness," evilness, far from you. But how to deal with such a term now "wicked" in our despite the Brexit increasingly anglophile society can also be described as "excellent" in a fashionable, contemporary use of speech as "that performer, that human, is wicked, you know?" I am not going to indulge this debate with linguistic ambiguity, but I would just like to call for clarity on our further ambitions on this bumpy path. Concepts such as "honestity" and "transparency," "keyability" and "comparability" require concreteisation and, preferably, not in ever thicker manuals, because the various cases are probably not sufficiently helped. As a little boy in an office house, I had to open the door and tell the visitor that my mayor-father told me to tell him he wasn't at home. Was that the beginning of my much-discussed life walk in a glass house or a little white lie? Later, I worked with my group colleagues and so many others on the basis of a recent party profile with associated code for reliable CDA directors and CDA representatives who have to work from a basic attitude that translates into seven behavior values: engaged, incorruptible, courageous, communicative, transparent, thoughtful and respectful. For this debate, let us assume that these kinds of principles are in themselves honorable in assessing our administrative and political actions. Then there are still questions to answer. We are not getting away with an assumption or even with reports that politicians in our country are not so bad on average on international lists of public fraud, abuse and misuse and that we should therefore avoid shooting a cannon at a mosquito. No, where it can be done better, it needs to be done better, from the point of view of credibility of ourselves and also in a possible critical assessment of others. At the same time, we must guard against exaggeration and one-sided moral condemnation or creating confusion about what we are actually talking about in a debate like this. Let me start with that last one. From the professional lobbyists, I object to secondary activities or to senators' own professional experience, which would be disproportionately likely to be involved in the political balancing process with less well-established interests, citizens' initiatives and less capital-intensive organisations, and which, if I taste it correctly, even the professional offices for public affairs would occasionally be in the wind. Now I am not going to raise the pile of literature about the expanding circles of the powers of The Hague, but at the heart of the search for more permeability of our increasingly complex government, our group does not think that it is an increasingly literate demarcation between who can say what when or not, but more precision about what is for decision when in public. We must try to prevent any detail, insight, incident or alleged incident from being sprinkled with salt at the time of an already complicated process of policy development 24 hours a day, while it is not even clear which main meal is being prepared and whether it will be served. And for good understanding, we are still standing here in the First Chamber at the end of the review series with precise, but also limited powers. The current climate policy may well be called a deterrent example of this. It is clear to our group that in such a decomplication and clarification of what lies ahead of us, it is preferable to have extensive knowledge and experience from a professional practice among our kind of democratically elected people. This permanent position of our group leaves open the question of whether interested senators, with their expertise, cannot be tempted to put personal interests above general interest. A small tour d'horizon already gives a practical clue to the dilemmas that many of us may face. Doesn't a person involved in a vegetarian butcher's shop have too much of his own meat when he uses his butcher's knife against traditional livestock farming here behind the rostrum? Does anyone who used to serve the general interest of builders get a home easier or cheaper than someone who has unfortunately been on a waiting list for years? Are waterboard drivers here only on other people's clean and dry feet or also on their own benefit in their main function? Is anyone who wants to leave migrants in primary and secondary positions sufficiently aware that differences of opinion on this can not only be invested with negative appreciations towards colleagues?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u154	I hear Mr Brinkman asking how a vegetarian butcher relates to a senator who advocates a reduction in livestock farming. That seems to me to be entirely interrelated, so I cannot imagine what the problem might be.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u155	Well, then we have one less dilemma. I have referred to the example, I have mentioned even more, in order to point out that we can all, or almost all, come up with questions about whether there is an appearance of interest or bias. I haven't mentioned myself as an example for nothing, without mentioning my name.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u156	Okay, then we agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u157	Yeah, I'm glad. I hope that will be the case with the conclusion later. Mr. Chairman. Are those who make their living in health care and education sufficiently aware that there are other interests than how to prevent school drop-out or pay for expensive medicines? Is a judgement here sufficiently independent if a colleague is also involved in decision-making as an employee on the other side? Does a simultaneous membership of Provincial States provide sufficient objectivity if we can vote in favour of an appointment of ourselves here? Anyone who wants to judge whether a fish can be eaten salty or sweet, does not lack some knowledge of inland fishing. Those who try to understand the spider web of national and international tax practices should also have their own knowledge of the loopholes in the legislation in question rather than be mainly guided by a bias on income relationships. Madam President. This kind of functional life, to be drawn from today's functional life, shows that we are constantly faced with trade-offs that cannot be eliminated by imposing a kind of ban on trade. As a society, we wouldn't like to see only individuals from high to low public bodies, from departments to VNG and IPO-based ones, advising each other and testing each other for accuracy. Periodic refresher courses for us, senators, should meanwhile take place in order to be able to continue to ask the relevant questions. Indeed, in case we should not, wanted or unwillingly, feed the appearance that we as butchers will judge our own flesh. But these aren't debates of anonymous robots and the camera doesn't burn away for nothing. Jealousy does not belong on this playing field to considerations. We can learn from each other and suspicion is not prohibited, but better placed on the board of the competent and competent authorities than served as feed to those who can always be found for a round of authorities on and around the Binnenhof. That is something that a politician and a director should be able to deal with, but whether the content of a decision in the public interest is always served by it remains more than a question of conscience for our group. As far as we are concerned, from the recent useful round of experience elsewhere, our group can imagine that this Chamber should be assisted by a committee of social and administrative experts, which, on request and on its own initiative, advises only this Chamber, political groups and individual senators on how to deal with possible conflicts of interest in concrete cases. Any complaints from third parties about too limited independence of individual members could also be raised here. On a further occasion, we could discuss the further development of such a committee of experienced outsiders, as far as we are concerned, preferably with this new Chamber, in order to be able to make a fresh start from the beginning of the new parliamentary term. I repeat it for the record. We continue to attach ourselves to the rooting of this house in society. Not because it looks good in the senators' curriculum vitae. No, precisely as a lifeline with society in the regular consultation here in the house about what new or updated rules are offered to society. We are not dealing here with individual licences, subsidies, deductions and the like. Our group will not have to judge the award of a sealock to a contractor, even if I think we should find something of it. In the debate on the rule of law, we should and should also consider the position of social lawyers. How reluctant are colleagues when they exercise that profession themselves? Regulation in the public interest is not served by decision-making by people who have little or no knowledge of and experience in different policy areas. We all want to be treated by a doctor who knows our bodies inside and outside and can't just talk about them properly. Not only for ourselves, but also for all of us in this country for whom we want to be in the weather! It is precisely at a time when the social usefulness and legitimacy of rules is so much questioned that we must keep that lifeline open. That is not mysterious, because the arguments and interests exchanged within it are expressed orally and in writing here and there, are also examined in debates and can and can and can be duplicated by third parties with either different views, or approving or rejecting opinions. That is both the burden and the charm of our democracy. And a potentially more varied, upcoming election result will only increase the value of that public debate. This does not need to be dealt with in advance in registers with whom or how many times exactly have been discussed. This is going to be new bureaucracy and what conversation is and what is not registering? Again, let senators here comment on their sources and arguments in front of the camera. If it were to continue to be about an almost impenetrable iron ring of people who show up everywhere and nowhere in the state, the incompatibility regime for public functions could be further examined. Only in one place at a time serve a public office or its direct support. Not majoritying on a case where immediate personal interest is evident, deserves further study to help fight the image that the government is still a small coterie of people playing the ball at each other. I suspect it's not too bad, even if you don't stumble on active mayors or aldermen here in the Senate, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u158	A short while ago, Mr Brinkman mentioned that he was in favour of an external committee advising on issues such as possible conflicts of interest. In the part that Mr Brinkman just said, he mentioned a number of rules that we should think about. If there is such an external committee, you must have something of a measure. A number of groups have expressed their support for a code of conduct in different keys this afternoon. Are you also in favour of formulating the things you mentioned at Chamber level in a code of conduct?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u159	I've heard that, too, but I want that to work for me. Our group has not yet delivered an opinion on this. I also said in the senior congress that I really want to have the opportunity to discuss the outcome of this debate in detail in the group. We are not against it in advance, but first we want to see how that goes further. That is why I have also built up my contribution as I have built it, with a number of concrete suggestions. There's some in there that haven't been heard yet. I would like to hear your comments on this later or at another occasion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u160	However, the examples mentioned by Mr Brinkman should, of course, be accepted by all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u161	Sure. The same applies to the proposals made by others.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u162	Well, we're gonna have to deal with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u163	Sure, but we all have to work with that. I don't think I'm the only one who's being called to obligations. Mr. Chairman. In general, prevention is better than cure. The question is whether the remedy would not be worse than the ailment if it were to be proposed that there should be an overall exclusion from either ancillary functions, or that the term and majority of members should be used in conjunction with experience from the exercise of an occupation and First Chamber membership. I say it repeatedly and with emphasis that this House does not decide on individual cases, either in the case of grant allocation or in the case of deduction arrangements, licence applications and so on. That makes supposed conflict of interest in itself more improbable. Whether or not to close a coal power plant or open a wind farm, just a few examples: how many shares in a particular company set up for that purpose should then be an obstacle to majority voting here? How many party political congsi's should, or could, be banned from doing so in order to be able to make an independent political judgement here on the basis of the well-known legal assessments of usability and legality? We must not turn the world upside down by assuming distrust. Sometimes things go wrong and sometimes people are doing wrong for their own benefit. But then let's focus on that and on them. Stricter and faster investigation, and where necessary prosecution or exclusion, is, where appropriate, more effective than veiling a haze of suspicion across the entire public decision-making process here. Self-polluting doesn't help to come to terms with society. Anyone who likes to live in a clean land with our group must help to catch up the filth and try to prevent the fall from repeating itself. If there is suspicion of bribery, fraud or other intolerable evil, the police and the judiciary are competent and competent. And an AIVD is there for a reason. We can help them anonymously or publicly. So we don't want to look away, but living under permanent abstract suspicion doesn't make the ministry more attractive. We should not want to do that to our democracy. Are there then all the objections that have been raised here and there with the objection of this kind of practical objection? Is the threat of undermining public authority not present here? You'd like to hope so, but first of all let's consider the question as to why a secondary function "paid" would give too little openness. This country rightly does not have any disclosure of tax returns. They must have been "truthfully' filled out, and they can be judged by tax and criminal law if necessary. The question of how much such a thing might possibly be, may be interesting for everyone's curiosity, is relevant whether a possible senator in question in terms of Horatius is "of undisputed life walk and free from guilt." Fortunately, our country still knows the rule that only a conviction counts. And as annoying and inescapable as newspaper columns or public gossip may be, there is also the possibility of a public existence to hear and hear relevant facts, even the assumption of such facts. There is no need for those concerned to want to avoid this and, from a preventive point of view, it is therefore possible, where appropriate, to consider setting up an advisory committee for our senate, which I have just indicated, and not to avoid the internal discussion about it. It is also clear from those who advocate further limitation in order to prevent "fault behavior" that partners and other family would also like to be added as relevant to the list of undesirable or undesirable behavior. prohibited relations. This seems to us to be an undesirable and unexecutable idea in an otherwise very individualized society. Candidate Chamber members themselves are now being assessed for possible obstacles with the help of the services of the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice. And we are not aware of any objections to this understandable course of action before entering the gate of democracy. Perhaps we should look again at whether our credentials committees should just step up their investigation before giving their opinions to our Chamber. And on such occasions it may also be necessary to consider whether privacy protection has not been overshot in our course of justice where taps and other possible means of proof cannot now be used, while for insiders it is obvious where the hare lies. In general, this does not stimulate the feeling of justice, but certainly not where public (candidate) officials are concerned? If and to the extent that direct family relations should be involved in such investigations, a candidate or membership should, where appropriate, be called into question, primarily by the political party concerned, in consultation between the said ministers and the party chairmen concerned. In short, active and preventive action in the case of specific individual indications of wrongdoing in the personal interest, not with a machine gun full of suspicion shoot at a benevolent group of people who want to serve democracy here in the public interest, with all their heart and dedication, even outside the supposed few days a week. Madam President, concluding. This brief contribution alone indicates that it is difficult to conclude this debate with a single Chamber statement on the right or wrong with a yes or no. Senators should also not charge suspicions either in their ordinary lives or in their public function that, apart from around €30,000 a year in fees for their Chamber work, they will be better off serving the public interest here. Those who are caught in the scraps by journalists, the Public Prosecutor's Office, should not squeak, but first consult themselves. He/she is entitled to discretionary powers, but should not discredit the office. That is different from going aside from any critical remark from outside or inside, while the self-imposed facts at least deserve discussion. After all, who in this house and for many opinions and the debate on it, is the exclusive right to the right judgment? A discussed walk of life is not bad, as long as neither you nor this Chamber suffer from it in your conscientious voice. Alert is in place, even in this house. Undermining behaviour is not necessarily just something far away. Therefore, Madam President, after and in addition to the group views expressed by Mr De Vries-Legge in 2014 here on the GRECO report, we wanted to re-examine the topicality of the matter. That is why, Madam President, we would like to welcome the fact that you would like to add regular consideration of the state of affairs in this matter to the regular public agenda of the Chamber and to promote the further examination of the outcome of these discussions as soon as possible at the beginning of the next parliamentary term of the new Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u164	Thank you, Mr. Brinkman. I give the floor to Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u165	Thank you, Madam President. As you know, there's a chess board in the SGP group room. Once every two or three weeks my colleague Diederik van Dijk makes a move. And a little later, I'll move one of the pieces. I usually do that a little unthinking, I often say afterwards. Anyway, every week I take a picture just before I leave, because it happens very often that a chess piece is put in a different place in the week that we are absent. Yeah. Who would do that? My colleague Diederik? No, I trust them blindly. Besides, he usually wins. Any other parties sitting in the hallway with us? The SP? I don't know if they play chess at the SP. Green Left? Well, I don't know; it's pretty conservative moves that are done in secret. What about the Party for Animals? Madam President, only the horses would be given a protected spot, but that pattern is not visible. Anyway, this chess game is the integrity debate in a nutshell. After all, there are rules for the chess game, and the opponent and anyone who can get to the board should not misbehave. Rules and behaviour: that's what it's all about, at least at first sight. 'Cause what if you're making the wrong rule and someone's behaving according to that rule? Then you may do what has been agreed, but it could be completely wrong. Therefore, a deeper layer or something of higher order is needed. After all, rules and behavior are not in themselves; they are when it is well anchored in values and standards. And that set of values and norms is part of our identity. And, Madam President, for the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, these are the biblical values and standards, which are quite simply laid down in the ten commandments. You know, the first four commandments are mostly about love to God, and the other six are mainly about dealing with the neighbor. In fact, in those last six, everything that is good for people is expressed: attention to authority, respect for life, love and faithfulness, keeping away from the things of another, not gossip or backslapping and, finally, not desirous. Madam President. If we all, and everyone in our society, succeeded in keeping to this set of commandments, then there was no issue of integrity. That sounds pretty obvious to me. However, we are dealing with it. And why is that? Do we dare to see that this is the result of failing in the field of fixed values and standards? Or are we just blaming all those people in the country who are not a senator and therefore wouldn't understand that we do and leave as we do? That would be a very naive reaction. Doing and letting us be must be such that one can see and judge whether our actions are integrity. If that is opaque, then one can start to doubt his or her integrity. And that can even be linked to his or her identity. So we all have to realize that a personal misstep also emanates from the Upper Chamber as a whole. A misstep in your integrity affects the identity, but also the image of this Chamber. Integrity, identity and image: three elements that need to be seen in conjunction. That is why it is important for each party to agree internally on what is to be done with integrity for a Member of Parliament and how that integrity is to be guarded. Much appreciation that almost every party has recorded this, including 50PLUS, which has recently put this in order. And a call to the colleagues of the PVV is just in place: just put on an A4' that everyone within your party has to meet. In fact, there are now eleven different identity documents. My appeal at the Seniors College was to put these documents next to each other, to see if there's some kind of big common denominator to pull out. I would like to thank the Registry, which has already taken up this work, at least by classifying and classifying it in any case. But I propose that we then consider whether there is a set of common rules of conduct out of all those documents. This can help us to keep all of us sharp and to appeal to each other over the parties for integrity. Maybe it's an idea to hand out a small, handy ticket to all the MPs. Madam President. Another point is how we as a Chamber deal with the recommendations of GRECO. Let us consider again why we have not followed some aspects. Take as an example the confidant. Of course, at the time, we were able to conclude that the President could also play the role of a trusted person. I think everyone who was in the Chamber at the time remembers that she was elected by 75 votes in favour. In other words, a broader trust was impossible. Even the President had confidence in himself! Well, this President will be retiring shortly. We cannot yet assess who will succeed her, but does the next President automatically have that broad confidence again? I do not know yet, but we should not wait and then come to the conclusion that it is possible or not. My group therefore proposes to appoint an external confidant in accordance with the rules that GRECO proposes. In addition, my group proposes to appoint an internal committee on integrity, which can once again act as a point of contact and as a question mark for integrity issues from the political groups. At the expert meeting, the suggestion was made that everyone should report their particular interests and draw conclusions from them, but how far does it go? When you're married, can you talk about marriage? When you have a family, about family policy? When you pay taxes, about taxes? When you work in health care, about maintaining health care? Or should we seek special interests in the sphere of work in one of the other functions of a senator? But what about the knowledge and experience that led him or her to become a Member of Parliament? In short, it is difficult to provide an appropriate answer to the question of what particular interests should be reported. In the end, it is mainly about abusing the position of MPs for personal gain or for a business interest. Therefore, it is particularly necessary to keep a careful and clear track of where a Member of Parliament is employed or has administrative or advisory involvement. That is already happening, but my proposal has, of course, been mentioned many times already: let us schedule an update twice a year, with perhaps within each group the chairman of the political group or the secretary of the political group watching and the internal committee acting as a question mark. One of the experts also suggested that a solution to integrity issues would be to abstain from voting on certain legislative proposals. That seems problematic to me, because once someone abstains from voting, there is only one interesting question: what did this person say in his own group or not say about the bill? In doing so, we are moving the problem to the twilight zone of the closed group meetings. In short, in the opinion of my group, this is typically a subject where very personal choices have to be made. Resuming, Madam President. During my speech, I made four concrete proposals. 1. Set a code of conduct. 2. Name an external confidant. 3. Form an internal committee of integrity. 4. Schedule an update of side activities twice a year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u166	It's nice to be able to take these proposals. This raises the question of a possible fifth proposal, which has already been made here, namely an external person who operates in public and, for example, is going to monitor how we comply with the rules, who can draw up and advise reports. Now Mr Schalk of the SGP Group is primarily based on an internal chamber committee, but how does he see it that an internal committee can draw up its own reports and advise itself?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u167	Thanks for the question. First of all, of course, I referred to an external confidant. You can give that confidant a certain role. That can only be: you can report something there if you have something to report or think you have to report. But that confidential person can of course also be a question mark, for example for a committee of integrity within this Chamber. Now there's no such committee. I can very well imagine that a first step could be to set up such a committee. Why? Because we have also heard that there is an outside confidant across the street, who has at least not had a single question in recent years. So let us first see if such a committee of integrity might be able to capture enough of what is happening. But such an internal committee, and I could accommodate Mrs Strik, could, for example, provide some sort of back-up, outside the house, for very complicated issues. It could be done through such a trusted person. But our group has not in the first instance thought of an external committee which would have to assess everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u168	I think it is indeed a first important step, and you may wonder if you should do everything at once. But an important limitation for a trusted person is, of course, already in the name, that it all happens confidentially. People can submit things there, test them, and so on, while the importance of transparency at that expert meeting was stressed in such a way that the outside world can actually lodge complaints, that is clear what is happening with them and that public reports can also be drawn up on this issue. Of course, a trusted person can't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u169	I agree. In any case, a trusted person cannot come out with all kinds of reports. In fact, maybe we shouldn't even know that on the other side, no one has ever turned to the confidant. That's how confidential it should be. But with regard to the transparency of what is happening within the Chamber, an internal committee can help within our own functioning to see if there are any issues or issues that we can address each other. If we had a set of rules of conduct and it could sometimes be complicated within a group, then you could go to such an internal committee. But I don't know if all that should be on the street right now. At the moment when there is something special going on which one of the Members of the European Parliament is in dispute and should be investigated, I wonder whether the internal committee should be involved in this. It's possible that that's where the D.A.'s office comes in or something like that. I wouldn't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u170	The D.A.'s office is a big step right away, and you're gonna pull it right into the criminal justice system. The disadvantage of an internal committee is, after all, what I have already said in my speech: then you will be checking each other out. Of course, that could also be the interest of someone out there. He doesn't seem to be holding the other hand over his head either, and he can just present his findings completely freely. So maybe it's worth considering after all and we can involve it in our closer reflection process.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u171	Absolutely, we will. For all the proposals that are being made will also be weighed extensively in my group. I fully accept the suggestions made by Mrs Strik in this regard. Madam President, finally. I assume that every Member of Parliament, if he or she is asked about the man or the woman, whether he or she is in integrity, will indicate that this is the case. But integrity is something very fragile. The Apostle Paul gives a very compelling advice: if then, he who thinks to stand, see that he does not fall. Back to the chess game: not everyone can play chess as well, but if you're in the game, the players have to follow the rules and all bystanders must be able to see and judge what moves are made by anyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u172	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. I give the floor to Mr Kuiper.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u173	Mr. Chairman. I wish the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats much peace in its chamber. It is a good thing that today, in a public debate, we are thinking out loud about our position as members of this Chamber. The status of the First Chamber as part of the States-General is linked to the integrity and professional performance of the office of representative of the people, who speaks and acts on behalf of and for the Dutch people. For us, the special circumstance is that we are a sub-Parliament, although our office is 24/7. But we are a sub-Parliament, and the Members have all kinds of relations, work and therefore interests elsewhere, in addition to the work as a parliamentarians. That circumstance requires clarity, including because members from those other relations sometimes maintain relations with the government. The starting point for my group is that a member of the First Chamber carries out his or her work as co-legislator and controller of the government transparently and as purely as possible and should be able to justify it. In view of the special nature of the First Chamber as a part-time parliament, in my group's view this includes a code of conduct at the level of the Chamber itself. That makes it clear to ourselves and to the outside world about the dos and don'ts of functioning as members of this Chamber. Mr. Chairman. My group is also in favour of mirroring ourselves to interparliamentary standards that the GRECO is dealing with. In 2014, a temporary committee of this house, the Bröcker Committee, reported on previously made recommendations by the GRECO, which led to the addition of a chapter 12a to the Rules of Procedure. That new chapter is about being aware of conflict of interest and recording gifts, travels and side functions. However, the temporary committee, the Bröcker Committee, did not go along with the GRECO five years ago on the issue of a code of conduct at the level of the Chamber itself. At that time, she felt it was up to the political groups and individual Members and since then, political groups have been working on integrity rules for themselves. This has been an important development, but not enough. The temporary committee still considered that the proposed measures "met the recommendation of the GRECO to establish codes of conduct for First Chamber members." But the GRECO made it clear in the compliance report last year that this is not the case. Rules at group level are not a code of conduct for the whole house. Mr. Chairman. What we have done so far has been a good first step. This step is about transparency in the exercise of our function by registering side functions, gifts, travels and so on, and monitoring it, so that these registrations are also correct and complete. But that can be done even better, as the State Committee on Parliamentary System has pointed out. It is also a good thing that the groups have moved on to the subject, each for itself. However, the overview of the rules used by groups shows how diverse the approach is. Although I also agree with colleagues who say that these rules, which we have at group level, can still be looked at further in order to see if we can distil a more general code of conduct from there. But it has also been pointed out that those rules which the political groups have are often on the formal side and, in substance, do not always give sufficient explanation of the way in which we carry out our task here. Mr. Chairman. What has been added to the Rules of Procedure is therefore not yet a code of conduct. We would be in favour of the Court developing a limited number of guidelines, to speak in the terms of the GRECO, which concern behaviour. The code of conduct of the British House of Lords talks about principals as a basis for secondary rules. That is their structure: there are principals and you have rules. So those principals are the guidelines the GRECO is talking about. Those guidelines and even implicit rules of conduct are already in this house, such as the rule that a member of the Chamber does not speak on a subject in which he or he is involved and may be interested by reason of another function. That example shows that in a number of cases it does not have to be difficult to explain what we already find. Another example of this is the rule that a member of the Chamber as co-legislator does not directly advise the minister on any part of legislation. This means not taking part in a committee set up by the Minister or accepting an advisory mandate from the Minister. There are therefore already principles and guidelines on the prevention of conflicts of interest. Let's not keep it implicit, but just write it down. Mr. Chairman. Such a code of conduct may include disclosure requirements and the use or misuse of information, including contact with third parties, of course, including the handling of lobbyists. We've just had some discussions about that. So I do not need to explain my position in this; I have just done so when interrupting Mr Kox's speech. In almost all of these areas we have an idea of what we do and do not find fit with the functioning of members of the First Chamber, where we take the time that may take months, up to and including the installation of the next Chamber, to work this out in the College of Seniors. Mr. Chairman. As far as our group is concerned, it will also be necessary to consider which functions or the accumulation of functions are not considered appropriate in fulfilling the membership of the First Chamber. I am thinking in particular of membership of the judicial, executive or legislative authorities elsewhere. In particular, the dual membership of Provincial States and the First Chamber is problematic. Mr Brinkman also pointed out this because of the current system of elections. Mr. Chairman. There are also desiderata that are more complicated, such as the right to change, i.e. not to take part in votes in the event of a possible conflict of interest. It has been pointed out earlier this afternoon by some colleagues, but it does not seem to be a consensus on this, although the State Committee also believes that there should be rules for the First Chamber on this point, similar to the rules that exist for municipal councils and provincial states. The State Committee does not consider the difference between these bodies to be such that there should be a different legal regime. It will therefore require a constitutional change. My group will leave the discussion to the time when we will be discussing the report of the State Committee in due course. Another point concerns the monitoring of compliance with the rules and the possibility of obtaining advice from individual members on the implications of a code of conduct. The temporary committee gave the chairman of the First Chamber a trusting position, but the GRECO certainly objects to this, as the President of the Chamber also leads this Chamber and then doubles it. This is totally unrelated to the appreciation of the current President's person, but it is also our group's belief that it is right to entrust this confidence function to a person who is external to the Chamber. The House of Lords has such a figure with an independent official. In our situation, that is also possible, although such a person should not operate at a long distance or too isolated. In our group, the discussion on the further design of supervision and advice is still ongoing. I have no clear proposal for that. My group can imagine that there will be a small advisory committee, at least with an external member because of its independence, which will monitor both the matter of proper and complete registration by the state committee and can act with an advisory vote. A code of conduct will also have to contain binding elements. Not everything, but it will also contain binding elements and sanctions, otherwise a code will become a wash. But sanctions can only ultimately be imposed by the President of the Chamber on behalf of the Chamber. We do not know exactly how to do that, but we do think it is right to consider sanctions at least, indeed in the sense of having a conversation. Then you could scale up to heavier shapes, but let's hope that never happens. Sanctions should be applied exceptionally, but the sanction instrument should be available.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u174	I have the same question for Mr Kuiper as for Mrs Strik, namely: how does Mr Kuiper see the possibility of appeal in the case of sanctions?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u175	There should be, but I do not really have a clear picture of that either. So I'm just gonna let the discussion about that happen for a while, for the time being. If you have rules and you also want them to be taken seriously, you're gonna have to do something with sanctions. So you are indeed going on the path where something of a profession should eventually be possible. But I really have no idea how we should shape that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u176	May I ask a question on this point through you to Mr Kuiper, but also to others who have raised the issue of sanctions? I understand that in itself, but at least there is the question of whether the Chamber can be competent if it is such a serious offence, or whether you should say: here the criminal is at stake. In the debate, which I have also contributed to, I have also highlighted other elements relating to the more or less accidental coincidence of administrative activities, for example in education, in construction and here. But if it were really a matter of mafia practices, such as those in my opinion also live a bit in the thought world of GRECO, which I can certainly imagine and which we unfortunately also have examples of in the local nowadays, you come at the moment that you would be confronted with here too, which we all hope not to be faced with, of course, whether you would be competent as the First Chamber if the person concerned had already been elected and appointed. I have made the suggestion that the services concerned should be given the authority to go ahead, so I shall at least raise that question, as we move so easily into the idea that, if that case were to arise, the Chamber would only play a judge in that case. I would have liked to have looked into whether this is even one of the potential powers at all. Or do you say that's not what we're about, that's what the police and the justice department are about?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u177	Our debate is about our code of conduct. It's about behavior. I assume that they are not conducts in the sphere of criminal law. If that is the case, we are, of course, talking about a very serious category of behaviour, in which justice is also at issue. I am thinking of our behaviour in our capacities as parliamentarians here: the dos-and-don'ts of us are acting here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u178	But that confirms my fear that we still live in two worlds. So that doesn't mean anything about normal life. Let us take the seemingly innocent example of a position in education and be spokesperson education here, where there appears to be something about the school that we are the director of. That is a theoretical example, and it is also wrong in itself. But if there are general suspicions that it is a small coterie here that plays each other the ball and also leaves a nice penny on it, I have the feeling that it is not just a permit for a school.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u179	No. Again, it is about our behaviour in parliament. We do have a common understanding of what can and cannot be done. Let me take another example: the disclosure of information which is confidentially made available to us here. It happens from time to time. If someone breaks that rule at that point every time, you have to have a way to talk about it. That's the type of thing I think about in the first place. You are thinking of very great things, but I am simply thinking of our behaviour towards each other as parliamentarians. By the way, it is also very important that we can explain why we are doing what we are doing, so what our rules contain. We should also take it seriously if we have to, of course, I hope that we do not have to have a conversation, after which perhaps even a reprimand will follow. That is the type of thing I am thinking of when it comes to sanctions. Mr. Chairman. The subject of "integrity" can no longer be ignored from our world, in which public trust is a vulnerable asset. Integrity in dealing with information, money and influence has become a big theme, and sometimes people have made it a big theme. In sectors where confidence has not been called into question until recently, such as the banking world and science, there are now integrity codes and rules of conduct. Let us not allow politics to be an exception to this. Let us give an example in this House and make it very clear how we are shaping a more honest way of dealing with information, interests and influence. Mr. Chairman. The point of a code of conduct at Chamber level is very heavy for my group. I would very much like that to be a result of today's debate. I am considering tabling a motion in the second term, purely to say, hopefully, with the greatest possible majority, that that is the movement we would like to make. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u180	Thank you, Mr. Kuiper. Before I give the floor to Mr Ten Hoeve, I would like to say the following. We're running a little late, but I think it's important that we discuss this subject very well. The meeting of the General Affairs Committee starts at five minutes after the debate has been suspended in Commission Room 2. The BDO commission will start at 5.45 p.m. in Commission Room 3. I now give the floor to Mr Ten Hoeve.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u181	Mr. Chairman. We have thought for a long time that the monitoring of our integrity is in good hands with ourselves and with our groups. Maybe it is, but that somewhat complacent attitude is no longer defendable to the outside world, and that is not for myself anymore either. The discussions we had with each other, but above all with the team of experts on 18 December, convinced me that it would be better not only for the public but also inherently to tighten the reins, to give GRECO the right in its recommendations, to draw up a code of conduct and to allow outsiders to look at our actions. The press does this now and then, and rightly so, as a watchdog of democracy. It is good if we, for our part, try to find an impartial supervisor, or whatever you call it, who, with authority, is allowed to judge our choices. I shall come back to that, but that is, as far as I am concerned, a conclusion. More is needed, because of course the beginning lies in a kind of regulation which lays down what we are obliged to do to create transparency and what we are obliged to do to prevent us from taking advantage of our position. The obligations that are needed are, in fact, those already established, which have already been settled, but which are not kept up to date and are under control. Indication of functions, where of course it does not really matter whether these are called main or secondary functions, but rather whether such a function is paid for or is purely voluntary. Indication of gifts received in function above €50 or, if applicable, a ban on gifts above €50. Indication of in-service journeys paid other than from own resources. We already arrange for the notification of gifts received in function and travels made in function, but the problem with gifts and traveling is of course also that they can be paid by third parties, in view of the function of the MP, but with the intention of not making that clear. In addition to registration, a general rule is therefore required that a Member of Parliament may not gain an advantage for himself or for family members by issuing his or her vote, either financially or in any other form, other than only benefits for wider categories of population. So a general arrangement in the category "what is not allowed." Such a general rule should be sufficient to answer the question of how to deal with lobbyists. Lobbying is inevitable and is not wrong, but should not lead a Member of Parliament to become a conflict of interest. However, the rule that we have formulated does not yet provide transparency about contacts, which can influence them even without leading to preferential treatment. That transparency is really necessary. Something could be thought of, for example, a rule that contacts with commercial parties with regard to regulation are reported, as travel is also reported. That's a lobby register. It is not a lobbyist register related to passes, but a register of activities.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u182	I can now hear you say that it must be mentioned with commercial parties and not with all the others. If you do, how different can they be?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u183	The difficulty in assessing this kind of thing seems to me to be in the difference in all the contacts we have. You have talked about this in detail. We have a lot of contacts, we get a lot of letters and we often have conversations. In my opinion, there's always a division in that. On the one hand, we have contacts in which opinions are given, and on the other hand we are trying to reach an opinion. On the other hand, there are contacts that represent an interest. That is generally a material interest. I'll take that as something else. But I admit that the separation between them is often very diffuse.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u184	I continue to find it a little difficult, because it suggests that we get that kind of temptation more often from the commercial angle than from the non-commercial angle. I don't think they're really present, but as far as they're present, I don't really see the difference either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u185	I would therefore like to see this difference in the fact that, on the one hand, it is about opinions and, on the other, it is about commercial interests. There's a difference between that and that. But where the border is...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u186	May I ask...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u187	Mrs. Jorritsma, let Mr. Ten Hoeve speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u188	... I won't tell you exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u189	What do you think if a country does that, if a foreign country invites us with an interest?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u190	To talk us into an opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u191	Yes, to lead us to an opinion. We also have a Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u192	I would not initially see a commercial interest in that, not a material interest in that sense. But the importance of that can be very great. What else should we do with that? The fact that it is reported, that it is clear and that there is transparency about it is, of course, also highly desirable in that case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u193	I find it a little tricky because it's so theoretical and because I've never seen it happen here. That's kind of why I always have a problem with it myself. But I also find it very scary to suddenly treat commerce differently from all those beautiful NGOs, who supposedly have no material interests. Come on!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u194	In my opinion, opinion and interest are a difference. But again, I admit that sometimes the difference between them is difficult to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u195	Could I still help the honourable Member in his further thinking by also taking the example of a region, a city or cities that come to defend an opinion, but also an interest? Think of the construction of a rail link or the closure of a coal power station. These are matters where we are often approached more often than we like to be, to use that neutral word, by municipalities. They often also organise a cozy dinner, a nice party evening and so on. You know what I mean, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u196	I won't work out an exact arrangement here. You can't, and I'm not capable of that. However, I also feel that there is some difference between speaking about political opinions and wishes, which may indeed be of interest to a region which can represent an interest, and to typically commercial interests, which have a different background to the political interest that could play in a country, in a region or in a city. I would like to make a difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u197	In support of the distinction that Mr Ten Hoeve wants to make, I would like to draw your attention once again to the dissertation of Wimar Bolhuis, which has already been discussed here a few times. Bolhuis points out that collective burden relief for companies is always greater than the sum of election programmes and that this collective burden reduction is borne by citizens, who are faced with a collective burden increase, which is higher than the sum of election programmes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u198	This is, however, an extremely important part of the reflections because a distinction is made here that I do not appreciate well from long-term professional practice. If the EEA could be located in Amsterdam or in Leiden, for a while, it would not be just an opinion of a city government of Leiden or Amsterdam? Then there is also an interest of that city and its inhabitants. It shouldn't take us hours, but this doesn't make enough sense in my perception, my colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u199	But here, in my opinion, we are talking about a purely political decision: what do we want with this and what are we in favour of? That's a decision. You can have an opinion on that: I find this or that. But in commercial interests, that commercial element of a company plays an important role. I still experience that as a degree different. But in all cases it is about interests; I agree with my interrupters.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u200	The example of EEA is also purely commercial. There are important interests for the region in terms of employment and investment. So there is not only political importance to let Leiden become more important than Amsterdam. It already is, but that's a lot. You are, of course, trying to make a distinction in such a reporting system. Why a political institution and companies need to be judged differently if you are already starting to do so, I am still not clear. In any case, you will hear the critical attitude of our group on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u201	Maybe we should think about where you'll draw the line. Of course, it is not appropriate to register all the contacts that Members of Parliament have. Then we will indeed have a bureaucratic circus that is no longer an end at all. But where explicit interests are, in my opinion, that commercial interests play a role in the first instance, so it is important to have transparency about how influence has been exercised, I think it is important to be able to verify that. This will allow transparency to be created in the form of recording and making it public. Where we have to draw that line, I'd like to stay away from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u202	I keep finding it very complicated. I'm going back to our position as First Chamber. We only deal with legislative proposals in this Chamber, so no policy proposals and things that need to be devised. Nor should we submit any initiatives. We deal in second reading with what has been agreed by a majority in the House of Representatives. How hard would it have to be to add an interest, a commercial interest, to the Supreme Court to do something different or better? We cannot amend, so we can only vote in favour or against. But how do you see that the commercial interest can still penetrate the treatment of legislation, which has already reached an agreement in the Lower House?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u203	Perhaps that means that it is true that it is not necessary at all in so many cases to take this measure, because most of the decisions taken here are, of course, decisions taken on the basis of political considerations which are not directly related to commercial interests at all. But where they do have to deal with this, it seems clear to me that transparency is useful.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u204	If you could give me a few examples... Through you, of course, Mr President, if the President allows me to ask Mr Ten Hoeve to give real examples of what happened, in which that commercial interest got in his way and in which he thought 'I don't want to do that at all', then I start to think about it. It's never happened to me that they came to me with a commercial interest to do something else. Yes, you hear people who are against legislative proposals, but that goes equally well for individual citizens who say to you "are you going to increase the burden again?" Or I don't know what. I find it really very complicated what you want right now, and I don't really like the suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u205	I can't give you any examples. I must therefore remain guilty of the answer in that regard. As a general rule, as a general principle, it remains to me that the fact that the public has or may exist the idea that members of parliament can be influenced by commercial interests, which is, of course, something that plays a major role in the outside world, indicates that it can be useful to create transparency in this area. If we say to each other that this is hardly the case, this obligation, if we impose it on ourselves, will remain quite limited in scope. Perhaps that is the case; that may be true, but the principle remains for me that where commercial interests are explicitly presented to us with the question of deciding to their advantage, transparency can be useful. This point will be reflected in the further examination of the measures. We'll find out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u206	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u207	I'm looking for where I left off. The most difficult point is probably to settle how to deal with conflicts of interest in general. Although some of the problems that may arise from wearing two hats or being involved in multiple interests, either personally or in a family or other context, can be caught as a rule on the prohibition of preferential treatment, this is not always the case. It seems to me that only the general rule of the House of Commons can be used here: Members must base their behaviour on an assessment of the general interest, avoid conflicts between general and personal interest and decide in the event of conflicts in favour of the general interest. But this is inevitably the case; it is not always possible to give a clear opinion on which no more discussions can be held. If these discussions are to be conducted in such cases... Mr President, I come to the last point: enforcement. It is essential, I think, to check where possible, but that is limited... and discussion, training and also the possibility of sanctions, within the legal possibilities. The latter option is therefore also limited. In fact, it is also appropriate to point out that there is no point in sanctioning criminal cases in the Chamber. In the area of enforcement, the point I started with should also be taken into account: an external, authoritative advisor, trust or supervisor. It depends on what you want to emphasize. In any case, this should be to provide external, authoritative and with the possibility of advising Members of Parliament on their choices and to the Court on any necessary action, laying down rules or, for example, the imposition of sanctions. Mr. Chairman. In doing so, I opt for full implementation of the GRECO recommendations. Reliability and integrity of politics are of enormous importance to society. We are responsible for each other, not only for ourselves, but also for each other. This is best done by making the boundaries as clear as possible and by seeking out the discussion where those boundaries are less sharp, and by not hesitating to let anyone else look at them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u208	Thank you, Mr. Ten Hoeve. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Koffeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u209	Thank you, Mr President. The integrity of politicians is not beyond doubt. The annual integrity index, printed last weekend in the Volkskrant, shows that the largest party in terms of national representatives has also been the party with the highest number of integrity violations for six years in a row. The moral compass on which politicians sail is apparently not always reliable. In particular, in the part of the parliament that is part-time and many of which have other activities as their main function, the possibility of conflict of interest should be monitored in an extra secure manner, with the making of agreements proving difficult, because the members are chosen without burden and many agreements are therefore not enforceable. In debates like this, former Minister Dales, who has already passed posthumously today, has become proverbial with her statement that "a little integrity" does not exist. She was the first politician to try to break the current taboo on integrity discussions. In 1992 she pointed out that we should not be blinding ourselves to clear cases of fraud and corruption, which can be prosecuted under criminal law. Dales also felt that a less tangible problem should be considered, which she called "power ruin." "Mighty decay," said Dales, "is wider. It carries in it the element of dissolution, decay and blurring of standards." It is not time-bound and in continuous development, as was suggested earlier in this debate. Integrity has no time; integrity issues are about right or wrong. The element of dissolution was literally addressed in 2005 in a report by the National Police Corps, which talked about the interlinking of politics and the livestock sector. The police department spoke of "structural lucrative crime in the livestock sector, thus affecting administrative integrity." In the meantime, we are a large number of scandals and the Safety Research Council had to ring the bell about the safety of our food in relation to livestock farming. When it comes to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, the main cause of this, livestock farming, is carefully kept out of sight by politicians from coalition parties. Something like that raises questions. I highly recommend to you the opinion article that Lammert van Raan wrote about it today in the Volkskrant. Of course, the risk of power loss increases as the relationship between government and business becomes closer and deeper. The market has long been seen as a solution to all social evil, with which self-regulation and privatisation have taken a huge turn. More and more public bodies are also going to behave like they were companies. Of course it is wonderful when we have a gift register in the First Chamber in which gifts are reported to senators of more than €50, but much more than symbolism is not. Once, the Amsterdam City Council devoted two meetings to a decision to return tickets for Artis to the municipal administration in order to ensure the integrity of the municipal administration. The prudent handling of gifts and favors is no longer common practice in the public administration. In March last year, GRECO, the corruption watchdog of the Council of Europe, published another critical report on the Dutch Parliament. GRECO concludes that there are still no plans to impose and enforce integrity rules and calls them "sadly." Great gifts to politicians, when done in the private sphere, still do not need to be published. That raises questions. Integrity is the right thing to do, even if no one sees it, but politics must be done in full transparency, not on the basis of trust or assumptions. The fact that membership of the First Chamber is a part-time function is a truth like a cow, but nowhere is it established with how many other part-time jobs or full-time jobs the membership of the First Chamber can be combined. The House of Representatives has a duty to report additional earnings, but in the House of Lords, other main or secondary functions can be earned without any obligation to do so. The number of commissioners is not yet limited to any limit. You can keep so many gifts and travel registers for members of the First Chamber, but that system is not conclusive when these gifts are associated with other side functions than membership of this house. If members of this house are invited by the Defense for submarine trips to the North Sea, with an aircraft carrier take up the North Sea or fly a helicopter to Germany, that could affect their view of the armed forces, even if Defense didn't mean to. Lobby talks are also intended to influence the voting behaviour of members of this house, but there is no lobby register. I would suggest that such a public register be established for the First Chamber, in which all lobbying visits are recorded. The most experienced lobbyist in this house, colleague Van Kesteren, the man who according to the Volkskrant for 25 years ensured that various prime ministers listened to entrepreneurs, debited two years ago at his farewell as VNO-NCW chairman the following two wisdoms: "acting is often inferior to waiting" and "you stand like a heron on the side of the ditch and wait for the fish to pass, they shouldn't see you." In particular, my group calls for such a public lobby register: names and back numbers of all herons who are more frequent in this house, not just for the protection of the fisherman. At the time of the debate on a ban on unsedated ritual slaughter, it was a crowd of lobbyists who wanted to maintain this cruel slaughter method, but it was not clear which lobbyist visited which spokesperson and for what purpose. And that happens with countless legislative proposals, recently on the bill on organ donation. Transparency is the most important tool for preventing or paralyzing suspicions and suspicions. There is an individual responsibility for the members of this house, but there is also a common interest of these members in the reputation of the Chamber as a whole.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u210	About those two examples that Mr Koffeman mentioned, namely the ritual slaughter and organ donation. Is there any confusion with him about who came lobbying for what? Not with me. With me it was perfectly clear who were for and against in both cases. By the way, I wasn't in the Chamber when the subject of ritual slaughter was dealt with here, but without being here, I know who they were.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u211	Both these groups haven't been to me. So it's unclear to me. I like to know which lobbyists have been to which parties. Looking at the unsedated ritual slaughter: in the Lower House there is a two-thirds majority supporting this law, but suddenly, after the visit of a lot of lobbyists, that law can hardly count on support here. Then it is good to know which lobbyists have been there and what arguments they have used.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u212	I find it so fascinating that you are so naive that you do not know who this is about without them visiting you. Come on. Then you have a very bad information facility. You don't need a lobby register for that, do you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u213	I have to say that our information is reasonably in order, but if I see all kinds of people in the hallway who are here as lobbyists to talk to all kinds of groups about that bill, I would find it interesting to know exactly who they are and what their motives are. It doesn't seem unreasonable to me to want that. Mr. Chairman. Here too, there is a determination on a very non-binding basis. How should individual responsibility be weighed when agreements are concluded between opposition and cabinet through cow trade and group discipline in exchange for non-public consideration of any kind? They're elusive because of their nature. Next week we will be discussing the Gambling Law in this House and during our debate on integrity, the Minister in question will speak with members of this Chamber in the hall. It's public, but it's unclear what it's about. There are several ways to ensure integrity and this can be done at different levels. In the light of the Constitution, the possibility of coercion and sanctions against senators is limited but somewhat present, especially at group level. It is precisely those possibilities of coercion and sanctions at the group level that could be affected by the individual responsibility of Members in this House. The focus should not only be on influencing individual parliamentarians. It should be assumed that political parties as a whole will also be influenced by financial support from entrepreneurs and pressure groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u214	A brief clarification question. Earlier in this debate, I said that I noticed that there were different thoughts on the lobby register. I have the impression that Mr Koffeman is adding something to it, not only with whom we have spoken, but also with what has been discussed. Maybe he can indicate if that's what he's talking about, because that makes things much more complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u215	I understand this would be more complex. I do not have that as a detailed proposal. I'd be happy to know who's been there. If there can also be a report on what has been discussed... Maybe that's a good idea and maybe it's too complex, but I didn't work it out. The way in which large parties finance their election campaigns is particularly intransparent and even risky, said a former party chairman in 2012. This seems to have improved little since then. The Animal Party is calling for a broader discussion on the integrity of politics, a discussion that may last longer as far as we are concerned than this debate. Not only the opportunities to promote integrity but also the opportunities to be identified better than is currently the case. It is suggested that Members with a particular interest or background should not be allowed to speak on a particular subject or not to vote on such a subject, but it is not clear how far that should go. Can a teacher not speak or vote on the education budget, the subject in which he has great knowledge and experience in particular? Mr Schalk had a lot of examples in this context, which I will not repeat for the sake of short. Can a person with strong ideals not speak or vote on a particular subject, even if those ideals form the basis of his party or his candidacy? Or is it mainly about material interests such as paid consultations in the area of legislation and its implementation? That discussion has been raging for a long time, raging like a moonflake and constantly re-emerging in the media. Without a clear policy of integrity, it will harm the standing of the people's representatives. Although the subject is still so uncomfortable, it should not only be discussed from time to time, but it will also require clear guidelines, more than has already been announced. The main sanction for infringement should be passed on by the electorate, but such a link does not seem to provide sufficient guarantees for the time being. For this reason, I propose that we appoint a committee from among ourselves to examine further the recommendations and concerns raised during this debate and to report on them in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u216	Thank you, Mr. Coffeeman. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Then I'll suspend the meeting until 7:00 p.m. You have already heard from me when the committee meetings that have been postponed will take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u217	We continue with the discussion on Chapter XIIa (Rules of Order): Integrity. We're due for the second term of office. I give the floor to Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u218	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The PVV Group remains in the position that the responsibility for integrity lies with the MPs, the political group and the party. It is striking that no one in this Chamber has responded to the failure to ratify Article 12, 'trade in influence', of the Criminal Law Convention on Corruption protocol. If it's about something, it's about that article. On the other hand, there are many proposals for a code of conduct for the whole Chamber. So we do not see that at all, if not control and the enforcement mechanism with possible sanctions. The question is also whether sanctions in the form of, for example, suspensions or withdrawal of voting rights have a legal basis. It can't be that house rules are put above the law, can it? Surely it is not possible for a democratically elected representative of the people to be sidelined by house rules? The only person who can put the representative of the people aside is the one who gave him or her the mandate, and that is the representative of the people himself. Sorry, that's the voter. Excuse me. That's the voter. Of course, the representative of the people can also say: I am not doing it anymore. But that's another story. Let us be honest: the First Chamber has become a political body and it has become an extension of the Second Chamber. Then I come back to the PVV thesis and also the theorem that Mr.English of D66 has, I was able to read in the newspaper from the weekend, and that is: the abolition of the First Chamber. Any technical review we could just invest in another organization.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u219	Mrs Faber has not yet answered a question that has been put from various quarters in her second term. That is not: will the PVV agree to a general code of conduct? That is a new idea that is developing here. We're gonna have to talk about that. The old idea, formulated in the opinions of the Bröcker Commission, which the PVV also participated in, was: make integrity agreements per group and publish them. The PVV then supported it, agreed to it, and the preparation of it was part of the process. We are now four years away and the PVV is the only group that has not delivered. Then the question is right: why doesn't the PVV deliver? Is that moving insight, has something come through? Or did you just advise us: you all have to do that and we don't do it? That's weird, isn't it? That's a legitimate question, isn't it? Is there a reason the PVV Group doesn't? I just want an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u220	Of course, Mr. Kox can always ask what he wants. That's fine, of course. Of course, that was the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u221	You were in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u222	I was in there. That's right. But it's not like you always agree with everything when you're on a committee. I think it's obvious. I have already said in my first term that the drafting of integrity rules is something of the group itself. That's an internal matter. I haven't changed my mind about this in the last four or three hours.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u223	But Mrs Faber has changed her mind in recent years. I think I remember the discussion and the opinion very well. You have made a reservation, but not on these points. The PVV Group has worked on the preparation and presented it to our Chamber. If the PVV Group changes its mind now, I agree, but that has to be said. The PVV should not say: we then distanced ourselves from it. The opposite is true. That will be evident from the documents of this Chamber. If there's any reason to change your mind, I'd like to hear it. Otherwise, I note that the PVV as the only group did not deliver on what was proposed by the Bröcker Committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u224	Once again, we had the same opinion during that committee, but we did not put it that way. Once again, it was the opinion of the committee and not of the group itself. There is a fundamental difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u225	I have a procedural question. Suppose all Mrs Faber's colleagues would need a code of conduct or a code of conduct. This will probably be done by a majority of votes. It will then be accepted. How does the PVV group then relate to those rules of conduct which we have accepted as Chambers?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u226	I would like to point out that I am speaking on behalf of my group. You can assume that I represent the group's position here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u227	That has become clear to me today. That's not the question either. The question was next. Suppose, as a majority chamber, we accept a code of conduct. How then will the members of the PVV relate to such a joint decision that it may not have been supported by its own party?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u228	It's not that far. Maybe it doesn't come to that, so I don't have to get ahead of myself. By then, I will certainly vent our opinion on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u229	Thank you, Mrs Faber. I give the floor to Mrs Jorritsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u230	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. However, I would like to say that today we have only actually talked about integrity in terms of the functioning of this Chamber, but, of course, integrity is a very layered concept. Our integrity is, of course, very closely linked to our political system and that political system is also closely linked to the integrity of the society in which that system is anchored. An integrity politician cannot function in a political system where integrity is not secured, but an integrity political system cannot work unless integrity is regularly high on the political and social agenda. I say this because, of course, all the things we discuss in the international are sometimes in that layered area in a different way than when we talk about it here in this house. That is why I also think that there may sometimes be reason to draw different conclusions. Then I get to what we've all talked about. I have made a proposal to look at the independent confidant. I think we should take that back. I am therefore happy to make this proposal again. I think it's good we're gonna talk. I would like to discuss the content a little more closely. If we go to a code of conduct of the Chamber, I also think that we should do so within the law. That probably means that, if you use a sanction system, you can't go much further than a reprimand, because I don't think the First Chamber should decide that someone shouldn't speak in the First Chamber. Then we cross a line, I think. I'd like the following if we had a code of conduct as a chamber. As far as I'm concerned, you need to think about who's gonna be in control. Who is enforcing this code of conduct? It could be a committee of the Chamber. I'm not sure it makes me so happy. It could be an outsider. You could also have some external involvement. The most important thing I think is that it is there to protect ourselves. Then, when there is an alleged conflict of interest or there is an infringement of the code of conduct, there is another one who can say: we simply do not agree with it. Now we do that internally. Unfortunately that is not accepted, I notice in the publicity. We have always done this with integrity when we are working on it. Maybe it's better if it's a little more independent. If we have a clear code of conduct and every Member of this Chamber is just sticking to it, then someone can attack us, but then there is someone who is protecting us. I would like to emphasize that, so I am very interested in that. I said what I said. Gifts and travels are now well arranged, I think. I'm also allowed to say that it shouldn't be more than €50. I have never managed to get anything of €50 at all. I had one bottle of wine put on it because I found an empty list so pathetic. Anyway, it's good to name that maximum amount. I believe that this is already the case in all the parties. And I said about lobbyists what I said about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u231	Thank you, Mrs Jorritsma. I give the floor to Mrs Sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u232	Mr President, I would like to put a question to Mrs Jorritsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u233	Mrs. Jorritsma, would you mind going back to the chair?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u234	Mr Jorritsma spoke in the first place about the fact that integrity is an evolving concept over time. I've been thinking about that for a while. I don't quite understand that. Isn't it true that integrity is just a fixed value that you can't say: Yes gut, that's what we used to think about and now that's how we feel about it? If that is indeed subject to change in time, does Mr Jorritsma have examples of what, for example, was not integrity ten years ago and is now, or vice versa?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u235	It's the other way around. I think, quite frankly, that there are few examples of which we are now saying: that is so integrity, we did not think so at the time, but that is all allowed now. For example, it used to be very common for directors to go to the Tour de France, with a bank or with an interest organisation. That didn't happen with the intention of bribing people or anything. That was before I was a ruler, by the way. That's a little over ten years ago. No one saw evil in that. Well, that was non-integer at the time. If you were to do that now, at least the newspaper would, but I think we, too, find: hm, here is a sign of conflict of interest. I also think it's been a long time since you participated in dinners and that kind of thing. It hasn't been that long since people thought it was normal. Yeah, that's not normal anymore. So it doesn't happen anymore, and that's a good thing. It's fine that we've gotten a little tighter on that. So they are indeed sliding panels. Something that used to be considered normal is no longer possible today and is immediately placed along the ladder of integrity today. That doesn't mean those people weren't integrity back then. Not at all. I don't believe they were bribed. But it did happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u236	So I understand Mr Jorritsma well that she does not think that the integrity of time is changing, but our appreciation of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u237	No, of course not. Then it was considered integrity to do so. And it was integrity, too. And now we're not saying that anymore. Now it's not integrity anymore. So it is definitely a sliding panel.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u238	Clear. Okay, thank you!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u239	Thank you again, Mrs Jorritsma. I give the floor to Mrs Sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u240	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Integrity can't be caught with just rules. It's a subject that touches on the values and norms that you need to discuss with each other. After all, morality by its very nature is pluralism and consensus arises only by the grace of dialogue. That is why the discussions we are having and the culture that prevails within our home are of great importance to the integrity of Members of Parliament. That is why my group welcomes the extensive discussions on the issue of integrity that have taken place within the College of Seniors, on the expert meeting that we have held and on the public debate that we are having today. During the previous parliamentary period, the Bröcker Commission made a number of recommendations to promote an integrity culture. For example, the issue of integrity should be discussed in the College of Seniors at least once every parliamentary term in order to exchange experience and address bottlenecks. It has taken us a long time to implement this recommendation and we are pleased that it has finally been implemented. Furthermore, the Bröcker Committee advises our Chamber to organise an introductory meeting on integrity after the arrival of a new First Chamber. This recommendation has not yet been implemented, but the College of Seniors has agreed to hold an introductory meeting on integrity when the new Chamber takes office in June 2019. Of course, we very much support that. In this respect, I shall now begin to distil out a number of proposals on behalf of my group from my first term. We would like to see a more detailed code of conduct which calls for a definition of the concept of conflict of interest. We prefer to have the registration rules on functions, roles and any financial interests, clarity on incompatible roles or tasks, the obligation to state any conflict of interest and to refrain from any action. We would like to see a further development of the appropriate enforcement of rules of conduct. This calls for an external confidant, from whom members of the Chamber can seek confidential advice. This calls for the possibility to request public advice and to monitor compliance with registration requirements and the assessment of complaints about integrity violations. This can be entrusted to a standing committee from the Chamber, where it would be preferable for us to give outsiders a supporting role in this. And that includes sanctioning and appeal. In line with these proposals, we have signed the motions to be tabled by Mr Strik and Mr Kuiper. They concern the formulation of a code of conduct and the organisation of an effective and transparent enforcement and monitoring mechanism. Mr. Chairman. But above all, we look forward to keeping the integrity debate in this Chamber alive.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u241	Thank you, Mrs. Sent. I give the floor to Mr Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u242	Mr. Chairman. I do not know what happened to you and to colleagues, but I think this is a good debate. We can actually talk about important matters in public without the government. I said earlier that our initial reaction was a little bit: don't touch us. Today we are really taking a step and going much further; we are going to see for ourselves how we can do it better and we have outside input. Whether it comes from GRECO or from public opinion, we would like to take that input with us to see how we can make our working methods more transparent, better and more reliable. I would point out the situation, which has also been reported from outside, in which the role of this Chamber becomes more relevant, not because we have changed the Constitution or because the State Committee has been working, but because, given the circumstances, this Chamber has a role to play in the political process. If our role becomes more important, we'll be looked at more. And that's not bad, that's good. I believe that this debate has helped to make it clear to the outside world that we want to face this with open vision. I said in the first term and I stress it now: we have also delivered as a Chamber. Our temporary committee GRECO has issued opinions and the Chamber has responded with amendments to the Rules of Procedure with an integrity chapter. All political groups except one have entered into and published integrity agreements. I'm not saying it to nag, but I want to underline that the PVV is really invited to do it. They advised with us. If Mrs Faber says 'I was on that committee, but I am not responsible for it', that is a total novelty: that you can sit on a committee, give advice and then say 'yes, but I did not agree'. Especially since the PVV indicated exactly what it did not agree with. So I think it would be good, also with a view to finding further consensus, for the PVV to make an integrity agreement and publish it. That can't be too hard. I do not think that the PVV group will have greater difficulty with this than other groups, but do it above all! I said in the first term, and I stress that the GRECO recommendations are not free. They're not for nothing. The intention is that we should follow up on this. But we are free when it comes to the form in which we do so. So I hope that, in the coming period, we will be able to work on GRECO's comments on having a code of conduct, monitoring our behaviour, dealing with lobbyists, dealing with a trusted person and providing insight into jobs, interests and rewards. I think we can agree on that. We may not agree on everything, but it is already very important if we are to take a firm first step. There's gonna be two motions later. I welcome the fact that the Chamber has tried to design motions for which there can be a great deal of support. I hope there is unanimous support for this, because I believe that it is precisely to see how we can develop a general code of conduct and organise monitoring properly. It has to be said that my group will never agree to external supervision of the parliament that is above Parliament in the drafting process, because that does not respect our constitutional views. The Supreme Court is above parliament, you could say, as the Public Prosecutor does in criminal matters. But otherwise we can't go above parliament. I wouldn't go looking for sanctions too much. They will, in their nature, always be very limited and must be, because we cannot go back to the rights that the electorate has given directly to a Member of Parliament. I agree with the chairman of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats that the code of conduct and the rules of protection are there to protect ourselves: that you can be called upon, that you slow down in time and that someone else can say: hey, that's what it says. That's better than looking for sanctions. I don't think that's necessary. If necessary, after today's debate, the First Chamber will be going to summarise how far we can also decide to set up a temporary working group GRECO-II, or whatever we are going to call it, after the first, because it has done a good job in a relatively short time. If that were necessary, my group would be happy to participate in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u243	Thank you, Mr. Kox. I give the floor to Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u244	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I agree with the previous speaker that I am pleased that we have had this debate following the repeated GRECO recommendations, after the public pressure that has been exerted and after the discussions that have taken place. I am pleased that, after a number of internal meetings, we now have a broad public recognition that integrity must be secured and that we have a shared responsibility in it. In this sense, therefore, we are abandoning the position that we leave alone with the individual groups or even Members. This is good for trust in our institute, good for its functioning and authority. It is precisely because we are part-time politicians that it is important to show how we separate our roles and that we fulfil our role as co-legislator. A code of conduct has just been mentioned and there will be a motion. I hope for broad support for this. We don't know what those rules will look like yet, because we will have to develop them together. I do feel that Mr Kox's suggestion is to create another kind of working group for it. It can see if they can be made material, because that always remains difficult. Depending on the content of the rules, the codes of the own groups will always remain important. I see it in front of me that we can find a common denominator as a sort of minimum rule, but it may be that some groups would like to put another tooth into it. We're gonna have to check that out. In any case, they will be a kind of living instruments, not only because of the spirit of time, but also because they only start to live and get more detailed when we start discussing and applying them on the basis of cases. Only then will we find out exactly what the rules we have agreed with each other mean. That is all the more reason to draw up proposals on how we will then comply with the rules. As far as we are concerned, there will have to be some sort of committee or something that is receptive to complaints and signals and that can investigate and test the case. Perhaps in this way it can develop a kind of case law for that further interpretation, although it is not entirely a correct comparison. This also makes it clearer to the outside world what exactly happens to the signals. It also provides legal certainty and protection for ourselves, the senators and the individual members. I fully agree with what Mrs Jorritsma and Mr Kox said about this. The motion on the code of conduct is therefore still before us. It has our full support. We would also like to table a motion which we hope will also receive broad support. It makes a proposal to the Registry to draw up proposals for monitoring and enforcement. What monitoring and enforcement should be exactly............................................................................................................................................................................................. You can already see that there are differences of opinion. Mrs Jorritsma clearly indicated that an independent person must be involved, as an objective investigator who does not give the impression that he is holding someone over his head. Mr Kox has just said that this is going to look like supervision of the Chamber. This motion doesn't say anything about that. I think we should work that out together. It's gonna have to be a mix. Members of parliament are, of course, about what they consider to be integrity, but sometimes it may be necessary to have someone from outside who reports on this or gives advice. But in the end, of course, politics is the move. The President shall: Mr Strik, Mr Kox, Mr Kuiper, Mr Ten Hoeve, Mr Sent and Mr Koffeman proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the integrity of the senator's office is a basis for the proper functioning of the First Chamber of the States-General and thus serving the general interest;]] [[Whereas the political office of Senator and the Institute of the First Chamber have an interest in an adequate integrity policy with safeguards for compliance;]] [[Considering that integrity issues and their enforcement are largely left to the individual members, political groups and political parties and not to the Upper Chamber as a whole in current practice;]] [[Notes that since 2013, the Council of Europe's GRECO Commission has repeatedly pointed to the lack of implementation of its recommendations on, inter alia, the need for a public code of conduct and an effective system of monitoring and enforcement;]] [[calls on the Registry to draw up proposals for an effective and transparent monitoring and enforcement mechanism to ensure compliance with and interpretation of a new code of conduct,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-CX-E]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u245	The request is addressed to the Registry, but that is, of course, in cooperation with the entire Chamber. We're gonna have to do it together. As far as our group is concerned, we are also going to elaborate the proposals on how we can comply with the other recommendations made by GRECO, including those on the external trust.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u246	Please stand still, Mrs Strik, because Mr Schalk has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u247	I have a question about the operative part, in which you ask the Registry to do so. Mrs Strik asks the Registry to do so, Madam President. If the code of conduct were to be developed by, for example, a working group, which has already been hinted at, should you not allow the Registry to be free of it, so that it can support it in all possible ways, rather than develop it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u248	I agree. I think the Registry can make good moves by figuring out how things are going elsewhere and the like. This will provide an important support function. In the end, it will have to be a working party of Members of Parliament which will at some point tell us which form or model is most workable and desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u249	In the end, it's a decision of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u250	Yeah, sure. Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u251	Thank you, Mrs. Strik. I give the floor to Mr Engels.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u252	Thank you, Madam President. I have noted that, although we have a debate, we do not have the same views on all points. I didn't really expect that either. It's pretty clear that the theme is alive. That's good, too. My group wants to try to make arrangements today for a good follow-up, because we are not ready yet. This debate is a stage and must lead to something. I think in two weeks' time we'll have to make a move in the Chamber for a sequel. I made two proposals. One to come up with a code of conduct along a certain path, linking it with a form of external judgment and advice. This proposal seems to be in line with political groups which, in my view, rightly believe that we still need to take some steps. That is the first proposal. But also in political groups which, as far as I am quite rightly concerned, think that there is still room for reflection and discussion on certain modalities that might be at stake. I think it is important that there should be an address to the House in two weeks' time. We have also tabled a motion on this subject, with only two signatures, but I hope that the Chamber will be able to support its submission.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u253	Let me read to her first, then we can ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u254	For the sake of interpretation, I would like to add that this motion is intended to do the first thing, the preliminary work. We do not reject the idea that a working party or a committee from the Chamber could actually come up with real proposals on the basis of that preliminary work. But that would be another phase after that for us. This is for a proper understanding of the motion. The President shall: Mrs Engels and Mr Backer tabled the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considers that, in view of the authority and stature of the First Chamber as High College of State, it is important to minimise the risk of non-intelligent action, bias and (the appearance of) conflict of interest;]] [[calls on the President to ask the Registrar to draw up a draft general code of conduct for the First Chamber so that it can be decided on the basis thereof;]] [[invites the President also to ask the Registrar to develop a note for the establishment of a form of a rules of conduct committee with external members, which may issue opinions on the interpretation of the appropriate code of conduct and the handling of complaints referred to above,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-CX-F]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u255	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u256	Thank you. Mr. Schalk has another question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u257	Mr. Chairman. I'm sorry to take time out of the meeting. I have the same question as before: why the Griffin?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u258	Quite simply, because I think it is important that before the idea of setting up a working group from the First Chamber will be operationalized, we first objectively identify what lies ahead. That inventory has already been done, but then there could also be a draft. This external variant of a form of a behavioral regulation committee could also be shown in various variants. It is therefore purely administratively objective, so that, if we decided to set up a working group, there would immediately be material to get to work on it and then look at the substance of what we come up with. That's why you're doing the right thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u259	The motion was, of course, read out quite quickly, but I had a bit of a feeling that the Griffin almost had to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u260	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u261	In fact, the Warrior.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u262	Yeah, okay. Thank you, Madam President. That reinforces my question. We will, of course, have to consider the motion. It was an important aspect, because then we have a piece of the Registrar lying down and not of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u263	Can I say something about that? It's kind of the same thing that played on Mrs. Strik's motion. A request was also made to the Registry. Here it is a request to the President to ask the Registrar. The question is whether you should not discuss this in the College of Seniors and in the committee, and so on. Anyway, it's a motion. That is what we are going to vote on in 14 days' time, and we can find all sorts of things.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u264	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. That is why this was the time to raise that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u265	Yes, but there is also a committee à la previous committee GRECO, namely the Bröcker Committee. You're thinking more in that direction, if I understand you correctly. Then Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u266	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a question for Mr. English. To what extent does it affect that our Registrar, Mr Nehmelman, has previously carried out orders for GRECO? To what extent has that affected the making of your motion, the filing of your motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u267	I would like to reply as follows: that is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u268	Then Mrs. Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u269	I have a question for clarification. I understood that in the motion for a resolution the petition is for the Registrar to draw up such a draft code and set up such a committee, but in your explanatory statement to Mr Schalk I hear you say that different modalities need to be examined and that a working group can then work with it. That was also the idea of my motion to bring together proposals and models so that Members of Parliament can decide for themselves. But in your operative part, you're talking about drawing up a design code. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u270	Yeah, a design.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u271	I don't have the motion anymore. He's gone for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u272	I wonder what the function of that working group is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u273	My intention is a two-phase story. In any case, I would like the Chamber to give a ruling. That the College of Seniors finally decides, is all excellent. I thought I would do it through the President and not directly to the Registrar, then it will also come to the College of Seniors. That's the procedure. If this isn't good, I'd be happy to adapt to it. The important thing is this. I believe that in two weeks' time we will have to reach a decision on a follow-up, otherwise we will have had a non-binding debate, shared views and achieved nothing. When I look at what has passed through the debate today, I see that it is not all in line. I have heard a number of groups that are already wanting to fill out very far-reachingly in advance what should be in a code or what kind of committee should be and what should be done. My group is not yet ready, and I understand that a number of other groups are not in a position to do so either. I would, however, like to see a number of groups which I have not understood are in any way ready to go with the Chamber to say that we must take a step, more than what has been going on so far. What I would like, then, is for the first time to be mapped out, following the inventory already made by the Registry, purely official and purely technical, as we often ask the Registry to make notes for us, which we could all think about and think about on the basis of what lies ahead. This includes GRECO, which includes the external opinions and includes the directives drawn up by the political groups in different ways. So that's one preparation. Then the other one. There are very different thoughts here, just in terminology. Then it's about supervision, that's about advice, that's about complaint handling, that's about trusting people, and that's about registering. That's a bit different. I would be pleased if we could first identify, in the event of a form of scrutiny, a code of conduct, which would then have been put forward and which would be appropriate. At the moment that we have all mapped this out, we can discuss with the College of Seniors whether we are going to assess with a working party, a committee or in any composition or whatever more substance what we want to come up with, so that the Chamber can decide on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u274	Thanks for the explanation. I really heard "a design code" and that sounds like we're getting one proposal. I welcome this explanation. Mr Engels has probably heard from everyone that he wants us to take next steps in two weeks' time. So in that sense, he's in good company here. That's what we all want. I myself have the impression that the motions tabled by Mr Kuiper and myself, Mr Kuiper, may have already been seen by you, in order to give us all the space to develop them together, with a common denominator, with broad support. It also states that they must be there, a code of conduct and a mechanism. In your motion, to be honest, I am already hearing a more concrete approach. This may lead to split-up in the Chamber, because you are already talking about outside actors and so on. Wouldn't it be much better to try to develop further proposals based on the common denominators we share in order to eventually achieve the goal we all want?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u275	I understand very well that you say that, but I have noticed that at least Mr Kuiper's motion, and I believe that yours, says that if a Chamber ruling follows, there are a number of modalities immediately attached to it. I would not even find that objectionable on a number of points myself, but I would like us to try to do this Chamber-wide. I have interpreted it in such a way that a number of groups still want to have room and I myself, like my group, have a very concrete final picture in mind and I have to take the time to talk about it afterwards. I don't really know what the big problem is right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u276	No, Mr. Chairman, finally. The motion I have just tabled leaves room for further clarification. I have just avoided any concrete terminology. What matters is that a mechanism is being developed that is effective and transparent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u277	Can I say one thing? We have agreed in the Seniors' College that the motions and the proposals will be inventoried, that they will be carefully examined and listed by the Registry. Friday, everyone gets that all together at the Friday post. Then everyone can see very clearly what is in the motions and what proposals have been made. The vote will take place in 14 days' time. What comes out of that is the follow-up to which many Members, including Mr Engels, are calling. In that respect, we should not talk the air to death with something that has been said a long time ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u278	The Kuiper motion has not yet been tabled and is not yet part of the debate, but Mr Engels has already been presented. I would like to hear from him what prompted him to table another motion. And I would like to know from him to what extent his motion differs from Mr Kuiper's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u279	Quite frankly, I have already indicated at least twice why that is. I have indicated that in my good friend Mr Kuiper's motion it is not at all annoying that a number of matters have been included, and if that motion is adopted, the result is that in any case it is certain that they will be dealt with in the code and that they will then be taken into account in any form of assessment. I have said from the very beginning that you can say no, but that is my observation that my group still wants to have room on a number of points for further reflection and discussion on modalities, and in any case to come up with something to which the Chamber can agree. I do not think it would be wise at all to take a great deal of advance on the substance of the matter. I tabled the motion mainly because I would like a decision to be taken after this debate, in two weeks' time, in the form of any motion, so that the debate has an orderly conclusion and on that basis we can take further steps and conclude the process, because we have started it for a certain purpose.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u280	I think that's everyone's wish.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u281	Absolutely. But if I read the Kuiper motion, which has yet to be tabled, it does not indicate an end point. That motion indicates direction and it opens doors which must then be examined, but it does not explicitly state that one or the other must be done. I am therefore surprised at Mr English's interpretation, and I look forward to Mr Kuiper's explanation when he submits his motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u282	I'd like to respond to your words. I am really sorry that this is how things are going, because we are now doing another game of peeing. Now we're gonna try an exegese again...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u283	To what extent do you want a...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u284	No, it's not. I thought you gave the way well. We have had a discussion on whether there should be any motions at all. An opinion was that motions should be possible. But proposals are just as serious. I thought: I'm just going to confine myself to what we're proposing; that's still broad, that's still in the early stages. And the way things are going, we all need to talk. But it's: nicer, prettier, prettier. Then I think, what are we doing now? In my view, there is a fairly broad consensus on the code of conduct. Maybe the PVV will not participate, maybe they will participate, but all the other parties have said something positive about that. I think we really need to talk about the precise design, about the exact way you do it, but at least I'm not going to vote for anything that already says how to do it. I really want to do that in the College of Seniors or in a working group, and I don't care how much more we can talk about it. It is also a call to the College of Seniors to continue with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u285	I said it: everyone gets the package of motions and proposals on Friday. We agreed at the Seniors' College that they would be treated equally in 14 days' time at the vote. Everyone must then judge for themselves what to support and what not to support. From there comes the next route.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u286	Because Mrs. Jorritsma said "what are we doing now" you get such an expression and I understand that. However, since this is a special debate, we do not need to address motions to the government. I think that after Friday we can communicate wisely and say: on the basis of this and perhaps on the basis of ideas from the President, we may be able to move motions or formulate them better. It would be worth something to me if we could come up with one statement from the Chamber in which it says that we are heading in the right direction at least. Whether everyone gets everything is gonna be taken care of later. But I think we need to handle this wisely and that if you send us motions and other information on Friday, groups should discuss what wisdom is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u287	The political groups will then be able to speak on Tuesday. The following week, there will be a vote. That is the road we are going in the future, because that road is not over now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u288	Peeing is not necessary in this case. It's a good thing we're taking this one step further.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u289	I couldn't do that either. Mr. English?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u290	Dismissed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u291	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Brinkman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u292	Madam President. I thought you made a good proposal shortly before Mr Kox was given the floor in the event of an interruption. That gives us the opportunity to study what has now been put forward over the weekend. There has been a lot of discussion or a little bit more visible, but I think that re-reading of what the various colleagues have said will also bring out new insights. In any case, we will give our opinion in 14 days' time on the basis of the documents that you have put before us, with the idea from our group that anyone who wants to have the maximum can come home with very little. What we strongly recommend is not to give the impression in general statements of Chambers the impression that everything has just been discussed here and will be voted on shortly. That is not our perception of this debate for the time being. A number of steps need to be taken, also in the opinion of our group, but if you want to get home too soon, you might not even make it across the street.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u293	Thank you, Mr. Brinkman. I give the floor to Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u294	Thank you, Madam President. Let me begin with a new dilemma, an integrity issue. I was talking about a chess game with us this afternoon where a piece of music is being moved from time to time. I didn't know who the perpetrators were, but by now three people have come forward. Only one can do it, so how about that? One was a policy officer, one was a staff member here and one was a MP. According to Mrs. Jorritsma, MPs are always to blame. But seriously, Madam President. It's wonderful that we've had this debate with each other. Everyone feels that we want to take steps, at least almost everyone feels that way. I'm not going to go over all the topics, but I'm just going to name a few that we all agree on, such as an update twice a year. Another is, for example, the lobby register. There are a lot of questions about that. What exactly do we mean by that, and the like? That's really not clear to me so far. What is quite clear is that we all want a set of rules of conduct. In what way we are going to shape it, of course, becomes the question. Another question I would like to put to you, because I have also referred it to the chairman of the PVV group in the event of an interruption: if the majority were to propose a code of conduct, it would probably be included in the Rules of Procedure. It seems to me that that applies to everyone. If that is not the case, I am sure I will hear it over the next two weeks. A second is that I have insisted on an external confidant. I've heard that from almost everyone, as well as what position he'll be in as an advisor. Maybe you can involve them in some of the issues that an internal committee might have. You should think about that. So my third proposal was indeed to set up an internal committee. Mrs Strik asked why not an external committee? I've been thinking about that for a while. Look, we haven't had such a commission so far. Now we have this debate, and now we have to be a little careful not to rush through and say, "Now we have to come up with the most violent system. Let us make a first start, so that we can also achieve a good balance. Because let's be perfectly honest: the first responsibility for integrity will be on everyone's hands. This is then the responsibility of the political group concerned and then of the Chamber. There an internal committee can do excellent work as an advisor or as a point of contact where you can go with your questions. But that committee can also give tips or advice of its own accord. And then it's back to that fraction and to that person himself. Before we proceed with supervision and enforcement, we should first try to do it this way, otherwise we will have a kind of new First Chamber Code.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u295	I'd still like to correct something. Mr Schalk says that I want an external committee. I never actually said that. I'm very much in favour of a committee of MPs. But that committee will sometimes have to rely on, or will sometimes need, the support of, outsiders, for example, to conduct specific investigations or give advice. So that's really a difference. In that sense, I share Mr Schalk's view that the primacy for final judgment should lie with the Members of Parliament themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u296	I'd say read the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u297	Thank you for this additional explanation. Let me add the following words to my own interpretation. If it can be done in the way that we have an internal committee, which is allowed to ask for external advice on special occasions, then Mrs Strik has what she is actually looking for. But then you are not going to set up an external committee with a complete monitoring and enforcement system. That would be my idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u298	I now have the text of that motion for a resolution before me. Mr Schalk says that at the moment it would be a bridge too far to speak in terms of supervision and enforcement. Did I understand him that well? Internal or external is an open discussion, but supervision and enforcement are already modalities with which you define something. Does Mr Schalk share my interpretation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u299	May I ask what motion you're referring to?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u300	I have Mrs. Strik's motion here. "Supervision and enforcement" was just the terminology we were talking about. How relevant are supervision and enforcement at this stage of the struggle?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u301	Sure, I've...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u302	But I understand you correctly: you think that this is just a step too far at the moment and that we should take an intermediate step. I think we'll find each other there at least.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u303	Indeed, I have just argued that we have not had such a committee so far. This discussion is not for nothing. We have received it from the social debate and, I think, we have taken it in a good way. But let's be careful now and not suddenly start to make up something that we really don't know if it's absolutely necessary. Moreover, if we are going to work with an internal committee that we would give a more advisory role, and we would find on the first two issues that that is simply too thin, then I think this Chamber is perfectly capable of saying: we are going to try to improve and strengthen it. Then there are all these possibilities. And I insist that we in this country have so much gremina where opinions can be requested when issues arise, that we should not at the moment create a specific and separate committee for this. I have another point on which I would like to say a few words. This is about the position of a committee or the Registry that has to work something out. I know we shouldn't be having that discussion right now, but the strength of the Registry seems to me to be supportive. We should not discuss this rule with the Registry or with the Registrar. The Registrar takes his strength and his stature out of his independence. So he can help us great by giving good advice, by asking other senates for all kinds of pieces or stuff: fine. But we should not let the Registrar and the Registry do the work of drawing up a code that we should then establish as a Chamber. Because then we're gonna have a discussion with the Warrior, and that's not where we need to have that discussion. And, Madam President, I think it is fantastic that proposals and motions will have equal status next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u304	In two weeks, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u305	Sorry, in two weeks. And I also think it is very nice once again, and I might add that we have just decided, no, just heard again from you, Madam President, that we will get it on Friday. That's what we heard at Seniors' College. This will enable us to speak in our group next Tuesday. But it wouldn't be wrong at all to share some things with each other in the College of Seniors. 'Cause then we'll have a week to think about it a second time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u306	Mr. English.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u307	Perhaps to his surprise I would like to say that I fully agree with Mr Schalk on the position and role of the Registry. That is precisely why I formulated the motion in this way. It is nothing more than an objective-neutral administrative advance without choices, precisely to help us make real choices in any way modality, from committee or working group. It is therefore by no means the intention to bring the Registry into the substantive discussion. That cannot be the case, and I regret that there may have been a misunderstanding about my intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u308	That misunderstanding arose from what we were read. But even when I read the motion now, I still think: well, there is more in it than Mr Engels now suggests. So perhaps Mr. Engels would also like to look at the operative part of his motion, and in particular at the phrase: "the President asks the Registrar to draw up a draft general code of conduct for the First Chamber" et cetera. That's exactly where you're gonna put the Warrior where I don't think we want him. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u309	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. Let me say it's a fairly normal procedure in this Chamber. The Registry serves the Members of Parliament in advance on all kinds of issues of advice. So this isn't suddenly something completely different or something new. It is not necessary to ask the Registrar or the Registry through the President. We do this very regularly and this is a very normal way of doing things. That is how I believe this process should proceed. That's actually how I see it, and so does Mr. Schalk and others. But again, this is my comment on this. I give the floor to Mr Kuiper.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u310	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My group considers the debate we have had today to be important and valuable. We have made this public. Everyone has seen how we talk about integrity and how we want to function. That's valuable in itself. Mr. Chairman. I will concentrate on an explanation of my motion, which has already passed a few times, but the text of which has not yet been made public here. Let me see a thought movement with my good friend Hans Engels. This good friend had about the same reasoning as I had, namely the next one. We've had a debate. We've heard all kinds of things from each other. That varies on parts, but that also has overlapping consensus; let me use those words. I think that consensus is very clear. He's at the point of a code of conduct, among other things. Mr Engels mentions them himself in his motion. Not only have I been working on this today, but I have had real discussions about it here and there lately. Here's what I'm gonna do. I think it is important that we make a statement here today, and so in two weeks' time, precisely on that point, with as much consensus as possible. I think that is important, because the debate will of course continue after today and it can go from one direction to another. But let's try to at least establish a few things with each other. I also think it is important that this should be a determination of the Chamber. I think it is important for the President to draw conclusions, but I also think it is important for groups to express their views here. That is the intention of the motion, that groups should be able to vote on it. The central point for me in this motion is that we should come up with a code of conduct at Chamber level. Not all political groups have been publicly aware of this in the debate this afternoon; most of them have. But that is also why I think it is important for a motion to be tabled so that it can also be given a ruling from the Chamber as such. So that's how I see this. I am also trying to formulate it as openly as possible so that we can take as much as possible into account. Mr President, I would like to comment on the motion, if you will allow it. Or do you want me to do that after the filing?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u311	It's slowly becoming a cliffhanger, that motion! You've mentioned her a few times, but no one knows what she's about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u312	Then I shall present her with this, Madam President!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u313	The cliff hanger just sticks to the cliff, so I think it would be wise to read to her now and then you can say a lot about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u314	All right. The President shall: Mr Kuiper, Mr Sent, Mr Kox, Mr Schalk, Mr Baay-Timmerman, Mr Ten Hoeve, Mr Koffeman and Mr Strik proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the status and proper functioning of the First Chamber as part of the States-General is linked to the integrity and professional performance of the office of representative of the people;]] [[Whereas the necessary integrity is now primarily the responsibility of political groups, but it also requires more explicit representation at the level of the Chamber and benefits from the clarification of standards and rules of conduct that apply to them;]] [[noting that the First Chamber has a chapter in its Rules of Procedure (XIIa) with rules on the registration of gifts, travel, ancillary functions and confidentiality, and that monitoring and compliance with them is a matter of attention;]] [[Noting that, in the light of the discussion, additional guidelines or guidelines were adopted. A code of conduct should be adopted on the following themes, also mentioned by GRECO:]] [[prevention of conflicts of interest;]] [[handling gifts and travel;]] [[contact with third parties (lobbyists);]] [[disclosure requirements;]] [[calls on the Court to have proposals developed, including on the basis of what has already been developed or what is part of the Court's practice, in view of current (constitutional) frameworks, in order to establish a coherent code of conduct,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-CX-G]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u315	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There is one more word for explanation. I also imagine the process that we have exchanged today with each other, including the compilation by the SGP Group of the rules of conduct of the political groups in order to distil things out there, to look at all together and to see how far we are going to go in drawing up such a code of conduct. I also propose that what we then develop in this way should also be done with the help of the Registry or by another committee; that is not so much to my mind, but we need a process to test these four themes mentioned by GRECO. I mentioned these four because they are mentioned in GRECO's compliance report as what should in any case be provided as a minimum if the Dutch Parliament comes up with codes of conduct. That is just what GRECO's latest compliance report says. I meant by that to provide some kind of objective framework to which you could then test. I know, however, that every group can find something on each of these points. This afternoon, for example, it focused on that contact with third parties, with lobbyists. This motion does not say exactly how it should be done. You can have a general rule like the House of Lords. Some of us want a register. I personally have reservations about this, but let's just talk about it in the College of Seniors or whatever else we're going to talk about. In any case, it is important to make it clear to GRECO that we are testing what we are developing against those frameworks and the themes they are giving us. It's a request to the Chamber. So how we do it is up to the Chamber. That will be discussed in the College of Seniors. That operative part also states that we already have our codes and uses. So it's also about explication of things that we already have. That was also mentioned this afternoon. I should now like to mention the rules of conduct that exist in the political groups. So all this could be taken into account in this process. A few words from my group on the motion for a resolution by Mr D66 which has just been tabled. So I have the feeling that we are getting a lot together, but that the D66 motion is actually getting more specific. Because you are talking about a draft and I am talking about proposals. I don't want to do semantics right now. Maybe we'll get close, but I'll find a design a little bit further than you're talking about proposals. From that second operative part, I wonder if everyone's getting so warm for that. I would therefore like it if my good friend Hans Engels could still consider joining this motion. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u316	Thank you, Mr. Kuiper. I'd almost say it gets a little sticky with that "good friend" all the time, but okay! I give the floor to Mr Ten Hoeve.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u317	Mr. Chairman. This whole discussion has ultimately emerged from external factors, but it has put us on the right track. Everyone has mentioned the points that he or she believes should be taken into account on that road. I note with Mr Kuiper that there is a considerable amount of overlapping consensus in this. I mentioned the registrations that need to be kept and checked. As far as I am concerned, remuneration or no remuneration may be included in the registered posts. As far as I am concerned, instead of keeping the gifts, there should also be a ban on gifts above €50, but these are small things. A set of common rules of conduct is the central issue. That code of conduct must of course be as concrete as possible, but I do not think that is possible in all respects. In that case, the formulation of clear principles is also very important. A lobby register may be considered at some point. Maybe I thought about it too easily. I'm sure it'll come up later. In any case, it is also reasonably broad-based that an authoritative external voice is important to fall back on as a trusted person, as a counselor for members and also as an advisor for the Chamber as an institution, possibly even with regard to modest sanctions. Three motions have been tabled that point in this direction. We all have to think again about how we deal with three motions in exactly 14 days' time. It's a little rich, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u318	We're just gonna vote on that, so that's how we deal with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u319	It could be, but still it's a bit much. In any case, the starting point for me is that we are trying to follow the GRECO recommendations as closely as possible. As far as I am concerned, it also has a value in itself that we are prepared to join more general standards for parliaments. That works not only for us, but for the whole of Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u320	Thank you, Mr. Ten Hoeve. I give the floor to Mr Koffeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u321	Mr. Chairman. We have had an interesting debate, and I was pleased that the SGP reminded us that if the horses were to be moved, they would go in the right direction if the Party for Animals were to be the culprit. I know that the SGP can be brought to sustainable thought through the chess game. In my hometown, the SGP has developed a durable chess game, where the horse has been replaced by a red deer and the board is made of recycled cardboard. So I'm gonna see how the SGP's gonna work out. Anyway, apart from that, integrity still proves to be a difficult subject. It is not difficult because integrity would be susceptible to different interpretations or because integrity under the influence of evolution or revolution would have a different meaning, but because integrity is assessed differently by different parties. That's too bad, and I think we should get rid of that. Mr. Chairman. We must realise that the debate on integrity has also been given an important impetus in this house by the hard work of Kim van Keken and Eric Smit; the first is present, for which we thank you very much. A debate in which we address motions and proposals to each other is a little unusual in this house. I am pleased that all the proposals will be put to a separate vote not only on motions but also on individual proposals in two weeks' time. My group has co-signed two of the three motions tabled, and I would also like to support the proposals for the establishment of a lobby register, the establishment of a GRECO-2 committee and the appointment of a trusted person within Parliament who can provide advice on integrity issues that are requested and unsolicited. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u322	Thank you, Mr. Coffeeman. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-29-eerstekamer-7.u323	Then I will say again that all the proposals and the motions that have been tabled are carefully drawn up and put together on Friday and then sent along with the Friday post so that the groups can all meet on Tuesday. The following week, the vote on motions and proposals will be equivalent on 12 February. Then we will see how we proceed with the integrity debate. I'm closing the meeting.
