ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-5.u1	I now give the floor to Mr Ronnes, on behalf of the CDA, for his questions to the Minister for Justice and Security, who also replaces the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. The question is about waiting times for social housing. I call Mr Ronnes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-5.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The reason we are standing here is that the RIGO report has recently been issued, which shows that the waiting lists are increasing. 19 February last I was standing here during Question Time, including the situation on the housing market. One of my suggestions was to set up an emergency housing programme. The Minister didn't want to do that at the time. Fast solutions to the highest needs, that was our proposal. This concerns exactly the people who are on the waiting list, which we are constantly seeing growing, as the RIGO report clearly shows. Residents take longer and longer to find a place to live. The registration time and the waiting time increase with great strides. So it's gonna go wrong. The problems are getting bigger rather than smaller. Starters aren't gonna make it. Many families are stuck because they can't rent the apartment they need. This problem is no surprise. We regularly insist on the need to build more homes. We have made proposals, adopted motions and asked questions. But despite all the effort, it's far too little. In Utrecht, a potential construction site is used to sacrifice 200 hectares of meadowland for sunbathing pastures. In Valkenburg there is a former flight camp that has been waiting for housing since 2006. I therefore have the following questions. Surely there is a big problem here that is getting bigger and bigger rather than smaller? Is the sense of urgency sufficient, both for social hire and for middle hire? What has been done with the motion of the CDA, tabled with the coalition parties and widely supported in this Chamber, in which the government has been asked to provide concrete 15,000 temporary or flex homes extra? Will provinces and municipalities be able to make hard planning capacity available for housing more quickly enough so that permits can be issued tomorrow and construction can be started? And last but not least, do corporations have enough opportunities to build houses? Where are the bottlenecks? Do the municipalities offer enough land? Or are the finances the problem in particular?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-5.u3	I now give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-5.u4	Mr. Chairman. The waiting times for house seekers for a social rental house have risen. In the most tense areas, waiting and searching times for house seekers are increased without urgency because precisely because the group of urgents receiving priority housing is relatively large. The report also shows that the effective search time is much shorter than the registration time. The effective search time is around two years in many regions, while the total registration time is four to nine years. What we also see is that the spread of effective search times within the same region is large. Anyone who makes less demands can find a home faster. In regions with an average long search time, such as Utrecht and Haarlem and surrounding areas, 30% to 45% of those looking for housing can find a home within two years. All this does not alter the fact that the waiting times that have taken place underline the importance and urgency of achieving sufficient new housing and improving the flow of cheaply living skeptics in the social stock. I have answered the first question. Then there is the second question. The use of temporary homes can indeed contribute to a faster realization of additional homes. Your Chamber has asked me for a plan to realize 15,000 temporary homes a year. I will send you a letter in May in which I will address the possibilities of increasing the production of temporary dwellings. I will also present the latest inventory of the municipal planning capacity in May in the State of Housing 2019. In the talks that the Minister is holding on the housing deals with the seven stress regions, it is important that soft planning capacity is converted into hard planning capacity. At the WoON Congress on 4 April, I called on the new delegates to give priority to housing planning. Finally, your last question. I look forward to Mr Ronnes' motion for a resolution on the social challenge and the investment capacity of corporations. I will probably report on this at the end of this year. Mr Ronnes has asked earlier whether this can be done faster, but it is a serious and in-depth investigation, because he is right to do so. I have promised to see if it can be speeded up, but I do not want to raise expectations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-5.u5	The need is getting higher and higher. I do not want to say from here that the cabinet is not doing anything, because there is a lot of work being done to boost house production. But in our eyes, it's still too little. That is why it is good to hear that the cabinet is now also working on emergency housing. I am very curious to see what the concrete plans are and how fast 'fast' will be. Is the Minister prepared to inform us of the motion on the housing emergency programme before the AO Building Statement? How quickly will this be achieved and how will the Minister or the Cabinet deal with it? A second point is that we have tabled a motion on overprogramming, i.e. a capacity of 130% in places where need is highest. How's that motion coming? Is the minister still working on that? Then the final point. We have asked your colleague, Mrs Ollongren, whether we can look at a further acceleration in the area of regulation, for example the Ladder for Sustainable Urbanization, the Flora and fauna Act and the Archaeology Act, where you can see if you can make speed gains in its application. We would like to hear about the motion for a resolution before the AO Building Report.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-5.u6	I do not have the date of the AO to which you refer fully, but let me say the following. As promised, I will come in May with a letter in which that plan will be worked out, as with the State of Housing. I certainly think this is the last motion to which Mr Ronnes refers when he says that AO should be as much discussion as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-5.u7	The AO is in May, so we're assuming that that letter will come before then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-5.u8	Thank you, Mr. Ronnes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-5.u9	I hope so. I can't guarantee it. It's coming in May. In any case, it is always good to have a good discussion about it in the AA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-5.u10	The housing market is completely overwhelmed. A lot of people are at the mercy of that totally overcrowded housing market. Now it turns out that tenants in the social sector have to wait longer and longer before they have a house. A house is a first need for life. It is also quite logical that this takes longer, because the government has chosen to allow the corporations to pay a landlord's tax. They have to add 2 billion a year to the treasury. My first question to the Minister is therefore very simple: can he comment on the relationship between the ever higher taxes that corporations have to pay and the ever longer waiting lists for tenants?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-5.u11	First of all, we must realise that these waiting lists will always be there in the end, because social housing is by definition rented at a rent below market level. So you always have a waiting list. I also refer to the promised documents for May 2019. I believe that this should be returned to it and that the constructive discussion on this issue should be conducted in this context, whether or not in the aforementioned AA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-5.u12	I understand that the Minister of Justice and Security is replacing the Minister of the Interior, but I was actually hoping for something more answer than this. I would therefore like to give the Minister a second chance. Just in response to questions from Mr Ronnes of the CDA, the Minister said that in the autumn the cabinet came up with figures and calculations about whether the funds of corporations are in line with the task they are facing, precisely when it comes to people with smaller pockets. I would ask the Minister to present those figures to us at least before Princess Day, because if we do not, we will be delayed for another year and the tenants will suffer again, which should not be the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-5.u13	Mr Smeulders himself points out that this problem is not so much dependent on the Minister who gives the answer here, but really on all kinds of different, interrelated factors. I will pass on the request from the Chamber that that letter is there for Princess' Day, but again, that letter will come when the investigation is completed. Your Chamber rightly wants an investigation on which you can have that fundamental discussion. So I can't guarantee it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-5.u14	This is a bit clumsy, because very much is referred to a letter and the Minister replaces the Minister for the Interior, so it is a bit difficult to do Question Time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-5.u15	For a moment, I was tarnishing how often the word "market" or "dwelling market" falls. It has now crept in so much that even my colleague Smeulders has just said it twice: the market, the housing market. But living is not supposed to be a market, I ask the Minister. Surely we have put in our Constitution for a reason that caring for sufficient housing is a task for the government? If we see that these waiting lists are so huge, shouldn't there be a stop to liberalising, selling and demolishing in places where they are so long, because it's really the job of the government to ensure that everyone has a good and affordable home?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-5.u16	It is precisely the principle of social housing that has been applied extensively in the Netherlands that it is not a full market. The social housing is rented for a rental price which is not at market level. The essential point of the question is part of a discussion which is far beyond the original question of this Question Time. I believe that the Permanent Chambers Committee must first discuss this with the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-5.u17	We are talking about the increasing waiting times for social housing, but what no other party or minister appoints is that these waiting times do not apply to status holders. In recent years, at least 53 000 social homes have been given away to status holders, with priority, while the Dutch must be on the waiting list for years. That's so unfair, so mean and so outrageous. When is the Minister going to do something about that? When is he going to ensure that our social rentals are exclusively allocated to the Dutch?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-5.u18	Here too, an issue is involved in the questioning which goes far beyond the original questioning. I think that this is also an issue that you should take into account in the broad context of the debate on the shortage that exists, about the waiting lists that exist.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-5.u19	The VVD shares the CDA's view that urgent housing needs to be provided, but I hear the CDA talking about urgency for both social and middle rents. The Netherlands has long been champion of social rent. It is now time for the Netherlands to become a middle-rent champion. Can the Minister ensure that we do not turn left but simply stick to the coalition agreement and keep the priority in mid-term rental? Can he promise that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-5.u20	According to the housing needs forecasts, the current size of the social rental stock of corporations...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The exact size required for each category may vary by scenario. The coalition agreement is, of course, the starting point of this cabinet, but I think that the discussion should come out of exactly how the emphasis in the division should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-5.u21	Mr President, I hear you and some of my colleagues making some sighing remarks, but I am brave, because the Minister of the Interior usually only promises us letters of formal notice and investigations. So I'm gonna try with this minister anyway. Does this minister recognize, now that he himself says that the waiting lists are so long, that there is a housing shortage? Is the cabinet prepared to ensure that the number of social housing units in the Netherlands will increase as a result of the policy rather than decrease, as seems to be happening now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-5.u22	I just said something about the housing needs projections. I therefore do not think that the issue of housing shortage is recognised here. Moreover, in response to Mr Ronnes' questions, I have already outlined the differences between regions and the difference between the effective search periods and the registration periods.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-tweedekamer-5.u23	Thank you.
