ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-eerstekamer-7.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and Water State to the Upper House.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-eerstekamer-7.u2	I give the floor to Mr Kuiper.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-eerstekamer-7.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This will not be the first appearance of the Secretary of State in this house, I suspect. In any case, it is my first debate with her. I also look forward to a nice debate on this important subject. As far as my group is concerned, this bill, which has been referred to as a low-policy implementation of a set of European directives on rail transport, gives an example of how the national legislator is gradually losing control of what has always been regarded as an important national dossier. The Fourth Railway Package is going to restrict what Member States themselves have to say about the organisation of their rail transport, restrictions that may no longer allow the national organisation that we are looking for. We slowly move along in a direction that forces us to choose rather than leave us a choice. Let me go back to the debate we had in this house in September 2015 on the implementation of the previous directive. It concerned the European railway area and the functioning of the market within that area. Back then, Secretary of State Mansveld was already negotiating the Fourth Railway Package. The Netherlands, according to that debate, wanted to control the main rail network and its main user, i.e. the Dutch Railways, as a national rail transport operator, could grant the concession. The Court supported the Secretary of State in its efforts to maintain the possibility of award. We are now seeing how this section, which is a crucial part of the Netherlands, has become part of the directive: it may be granted directly, but under strict conditions. The direction of thought is clear. Also for the main rail network, parties must be compared and the market opened. It's gonna be "buyed, unless." For example, a Member State is against the European Commission, which has consistently pursued liberalisation and market forces since the 1990s. That has been the consistent course in the decades behind us. In recent years, we have had discussions on this agenda in the Netherlands, in Parliament and in the media, and on the undesirable effects of European market forces on the railways. Rail transport has always been seen as something of high public interest that national governments want to control. In all these discussions, competition on the railways was rarely the desired outcome with broad support. Yet we move along in that direction, step by step, without drawing a clear line ourselves. For example, as a national legislator, we risk losing control of the future organisation and organisation of rail transport. The Secretary of State points out that this is a poor implementation of policy and that she herself is going to come up with a vision. I understand this approach, but it does mean that the political perspective that comes with these directives is taken over without reply or accompanying comments. This is, of course, most evident from what is called the "market pillar" of the proposal and far less from the technical pillar. There is nothing wrong with the latter pillar and with the creation of a European railway area with the same safety requirements and the possibility of railway undertakings acting in an interactive manner. That is what my group supports. With the market pillar, which sees the completion of a liberalised European rail market, we have considerably more difficulty. That is not an isolated theme without context either. Moving along with the basic idea behind the directive has led to a liberalised market. I would like to hear from our government where it stands and what development on the national track it considers desirable. Mr. Chairman. I have a number of questions on what is now before me. Firstly, my group would like to know how the Secretary of State deals with the possibility of granting the concession on the main rail network in the future. How does it see the room that has been left for it, given the conditions imposed on it? Is it conceivable that the national authorities themselves impose additional requirements and conditions to maintain control and a full choice in the situation on the main grid? How does the Secretary of State view the transitional provision to be invoked under this Directive in the case of concessions already granted? My group then wants to know exactly what the right of access without a public service contract, as it is called, means for railway undertakings on the national or regional rail network. This opening will start soon, as early as 2020. It can take place on lines where contracting is now being carried out. The opening-up will lead to the arrival of new challengers from existing parties. The existing concessions may also be infringed. How does the Secretary of State think that's gonna happen? And how desirable does she think that situation is? That is ultimately a political question. Do we want or do we opt for constantly changing providers with all the unrest and start-up and adjustment problems that this entails on the Dutch track? Thirdly, my group would like to know what role the Secretary of State for the Authority for Consumer and Market provides. The ACM has to pay attention to what is called the "economic balance" and can impose restrictions on new entrants. However, the ACM only reviews on the basis of economic considerations. In my group's view, this is too limited a perspective, which is in line with the European liberalisation ideal, but not necessarily with national interests. Can the national government provide the ACM with a broader balancing framework? Mr. Chairman. The Fourth Railway Package is a negotiation result. Germany and France have been able to protect their national systems to some extent. This is demonstrated by the possibility of keeping rail transport and rail management together in an integrated holding company, formally separated, legally separated from each other, but operationally closely linked. This integrated structure is allowed, although the European Commission did not originally intend to do so. That model of an integrated structure in a holding company benefits from its own domestic market and leads to a strengthened position of the national rail transport operator, Deutsche Bahn, SNCF and so on. This does not give us the desired level playing field in Europe, it also shows that the large Member States around us, in Germany and France, are closely monitoring their own rail interests. For the Netherlands, the possibility of vertical integration of transport and management, say of NS and ProRail, is no longer at issue. In the 1990s, we split up the national rail transport operator and rail management. The House of Representatives later regretted this and called this hard division "unwise and unthoughtful" in 2005. In the meantime, Re-integration of ProRail and NS is no longer on the agenda, because too radically, although they are increasingly organized towards each other and ProRail becomes a Zbo. However, the division we have carried out here is in line with the European Commission's ideal of having an impartial railway manager, in order to facilitate the best possible number of new entrants. This is not something that was, or is, necessarily pursued in the Netherlands. The hard division is a result of decisions in the 1990s, when the Netherlands opted for market forces on the track for a long time. That path has been abandoned, without it becoming clear where the Netherlands is going. Therefore, a vision of the future management and use of the Dutch railways is needed from the national government, this government. I would like to hear a response from the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. Finally, a single informative question. What steps will Europe take to implement this Fourth Railway Package and further facilitate its implementation? Here's what I'm talking about. The European Commission should have drawn up a draft implementing act on 16 December. It sets out the criteria by which, for example, the ACM has to check whether access to the internal rail system can be restricted. That implementing act is binding and therefore very important for what is and is not actually allowed on the Dutch track. Did that drafting of that implementing act happen? What's in it? How does the Secretary of State assess this implementing act? Mr. Chairman. My group calls on the government to adopt its own political stance on the control of the Dutch railways. European directives are not politically neutral or of a purely technical nature, they steer and limit the possibility of making choices in national matters. How necessary is that? The Dutch railway and public transport are just too important to see slowly slipping out of our hands. My group does not yet know how it ultimately has its attitude towards this bill. But the answers of the Secretary of State will certainly help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-eerstekamer-7.u4	Thank you, Mr. Kuiper. I give the floor to Mr Binnema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-eerstekamer-7.u5	Thank you, Madam President. Today we are discussing the Fourth Railway Package. In 2016, the European Parliament and the Council of Ministers adopted this package, consisting of three directives and three regulations with the ultimate aim of achieving a European railway area, i.e. the Single European Railway Area. GroenLinks supports this goal of creating a single European railway area to eventually travel faster, more accessible, cheaper and more sustainable by train across the continent. The fact that a return to London, Rome or Paris by plane costs a fraction of that same journey by train and is often considerably faster is, in our group's view, extremely undesirable and unnecessary. A well-functioning, faster and affordable international rail network is therefore the basis for the solution. The First Railway Package focused on the separation between management and transport and increased competition in the Member States in the field of freight transport. The Second Railway Package deregulated international freight transport and the third package opened up international passenger transport to competition. The Fourth Railway Package provides for an even more stringent separation of management and transport, with a number of possible exceptions and, secondly, greater competition from domestic passenger transport. Our group has strong doubts about the latter in particular. In this respect, I agree with the concerns expressed by Mr Kuiper of the Christian Union. We see great risks in this package, given the unique character and coherence of the Dutch main rail network. The strict conditions imposed on the direct award of public service contracts for passenger transport by rail and the extension of the right of access to railway infrastructure are precisely the two most important changes which are present in the market pillar of the Fourth Railway Package. Procurement becomes the norm, although it is fortunately possible to continue to award a contract on a private basis. The question is, however, for how long. What is the government's view of the European Commission's overall approach to the main rail network's domestic routes as well as regional lines in principle? How does the government view this emphasis on market forces? Although some references are made to the special characteristics of the railways, this is not always reflected in the concrete effects. In the written reply, the Secretary of State mentions two conditions to enable him to proceed with that direct award. Such a contract should, firstly, improve the quality and/or cost-effectiveness of the existing contract. The second condition is that the competent authority must justify the choice of direct award based, inter alia, on a number of structural and geographical characteristics of the market and the complexity of the rail network. Can the Secretary of State indicate to what extent, according to her assessment, the Dutch railway network meets those criteria? And is the Dutch Government committed to promoting, in the longer term too, the direct or indirect award of our main rail network? In my group's view, it is in line with the EU's objectives and practices that this will become more stringent in the future than more flexible. We fear that in the future the Netherlands will be stuck with procurement of domestic routes if we approve this package. After all, the reasoning is: contracting, unless you have very good reasons. Instead of: what is the best way to set up and control the track based on traveler flows, quality and durability requirements and the desired modal shift? GroenLinks wants the national government, in consultation with all regions, to keep a firm lead and to continue to implement the service, quality and coverage of the timetable, volume and frequency, comfort and safety. As far as we are concerned, this cannot be done in a market with players who like to sit in front of a dime in the front row and pick the dried grapes from the Dutch porridge. In our view, this can only be achieved through a firm approach to social and sustainability criteria. The Government's response that contracting authorities can take social aspects into account in procurement procedures and consider working conditions within companies is disappointing in this respect. As well as the rather general wording that increasing attention to good clientship and sustainable or social entrepreneurship and responsible purchasing is a positive development. Sure, we don't disagree. But what concrete steps does the Secretary of State intend to take for sustainability, social security and working conditions? How does the Secretary of State see what this legislation contributes to or does not do about it? How does this relate to the market logic used here? In the explanatory memorandum to the Dutch version of the Fourth Railway Package, the Government refers to a number of intentions, in particular from the coalition agreement, for which this package provides the framework. It concerns the transformation of ProRail into a ZBO, the possible addition of sprinter services to regional concessions and the planning and control of rail after 2024. The guiding principle is that the passenger's interest is central, that the choices to be made are weighed in each way how that interest can best be served. And the government also states that market forces are not an end in themselves, fortunately not, because sometimes it sounds almost like an article of faith, but, as the argument goes on, the traveller can benefit from more market forces on the track if it improves his offer and gets better services. In this part of my speech, I would like to dwell a little bit more on that idea of 'the importance of the traveller' or 'the central traveller'. What does that actually look like in concrete terms? It reminded me of the motto 'the child central', which we often hear in youth aid, or of companies saying 'to put the customer at the centre'. Just as the citizen does not exist, there is such a thing as the traveller. In rail transport we encounter very different travellers: tourists and tourists who discover the Netherlands, commuters, who travel daily from home to work and back, students and students, on their way to and from education, and travelers who visit family and friends. The wishes and interests of these travellers may be similar, but they also differ in many respects. What does "a better offer" mean? What does "a better service" mean? Do not the logic of the strong, thick lines and the logic of the large numbers ultimately apply? In some of these conditions, we do see shared interests, which all travelers have. When as many railway lines as possible are in the same hands, the carrier also has an interest in ensuring that it is as well organised as possible for the passenger from door to door. This also argues against a model of competition or land consolidation, where a journey goes through several concession areas. And we are not talking about all the associated complications that will get in the way of the traveller. What travel information is available? What about the payment systems, subscriptions, extra transfers and multiple check-in and check-out? Decisio and Twynstra Gudde also have these topics recently in their quickscan on the procurement of regional railway lines. One passenger needs a fast connection with as few stops as possible; the other passenger is in the interest of being able to board and get off at a smaller station. One has an interest in a good connection to metro, bus or tram; for another that does not matter. One traveller is flexible in departure and arrival times; the other is subject to fixed times. What does "the traveler is central" mean? What does "the importance of the traveller" mean? Our group was also alarmed by another part of the government's response, which refers to weighing passenger interests in a wider context. These include the financial aspects, which are translated as "the interests of the taxpayer, who are going to play a role." A second consideration is how to ensure that passengers are put first in rail transport, but at the same time prevent them from being squeezed, tendered and competed on working conditions and social security. After all, what is good for the traveller is not always good for the staff, and ultimately not for the traveller either. In short, to what extent is the idea of "the importance of the traveller" in practice, according to the State Secretary? We have not yet discussed the price that passengers pay for rail transport. A recent comparison based on Eurostat figures shows that the price in the Netherlands is the highest in Europe. By the way, Switzerland was not included. Although the quality is good, recent figures from the Dutch Railways show that there is a high level of customer satisfaction and a high degree of punctuality is surprising. With regard to GroenLinks, this calls for more investment in public transport, to increase speed, comfort and sustainability, while respecting social security and working conditions. More market and more contracting is also too simple a recipe for this issue, and as we see elsewhere, it certainly does not lead to more social security, sustainability or lower costs for the traveller. As far as we are concerned, the burden of proof lies with those who want more markets and more tenders, and not with those who, for good reasons, choose a different way of steering the railways. We look forward to the answer of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-eerstekamer-7.u6	Thank you, Mr. Binnema. I give the floor to Mrs Meijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-eerstekamer-7.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. More than three years ago, on 22 September 2015, we discussed the European directive to ensure that there was a single European railway area in which companies could, or would rather, compete freely with each other. I then argued why, according to the SP, and certainly not only according to the SP, that is a very bad idea. Today we are faced with a next step. The Fourth Railway Package makes it possible, in addition to a number of other changes, for non-concession holders to have access to our rail network, including the main network, and all that to promote that competition. Mr. Chairman. You will not be surprised that I will once again argue that this is a completely wrong path, because today we are facing a next step in the privatisation of our railways, a utility for one purpose only: to ensure that people are brought quickly, comfortably and preferably at a decent price from a to b. We see it as a useful function, on which democratic control must be exercised and on which the government must direct. This does not, of course, mean that our transport ends at the border; cooperation is obviously desirable. The SP is in favour of being able to travel easily across borders, but we do not believe that unbridled competition on rail between commercial companies is the best method for this. Those who do believe that competition in public transport will increase the quality at a lower price, I invite you to support this statement. I also challenge the Secretary of State to that effect. Perhaps the Commission could take a look at, for example, the situation on the railways in Great Britain. That is where 25 years of experience has been gained with the operation of the market on the track, and they have known that! The operation is catastrophic in that area.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-eerstekamer-7.u8	I'm sorry. I just had a quick meeting with the clerk. That's why I haven't seen you yet. Mr. Pleysier. I mean, Mr. Arrowman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-eerstekamer-7.u9	I would like to know how you assess the opening up of regional lines to private parties. In my view that has been a huge improvement; lines that were actually dying under the NS are now alive and flourishing again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-eerstekamer-7.u10	I understand Mr Pijlman's question, of course. He is talking to his colleague right now, but he could of course also listen to my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-eerstekamer-7.u11	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-eerstekamer-7.u12	Yes. Thank you. I recognize that in the past the NS has really messed up on the small lines that Mr Pijlman is referring to. But the fact that these lines were then taken over by regional carriers, for example Veolia and Arriva, does not mean that we must now continue to sell out the main network to others. I think that's a bad idea. Nor do I wish to claim that the NS could not have learned from the mistakes. But I am now talking about the market forces on the trail in Britain. They've had 25 years of experience with that, and they knew it, because that operation has been catastrophic. There are also voices in favour of renationalising that track. On some lines travellers have experienced a price increase of up to 245% and taxpayers have to add £5 billion each year. £5 billion, that's more than in the time when rail wasn't left to the market. While this situation is really no secret, it is from Brussels that the task of the Member States is to open their tracks. The new rule is: contracting, unless. That "unless" is sold us as a victory, at least that's how I read it a bit in the pieces. Now I would like to say that I am grateful to the Secretary of State for sticking her neck out for this, but to speak now of a victory? With an optimistic approach, I say: it is a small limitation of the loss. In concrete terms, it means that countries are allowed to grant directly, but then they have to meet a number of conditions, and an assessment is made in Brussels. So we are simply putting an end to our democratic control of the railways. The Secretary of State will soon be able to screen for the fact that we can continue to contract directly if we meet those conditions, but it will open the door. In doing so, we give up our control, our democratic rights to decide for ourselves who is on our track and under what conditions. Freely translated: if we jump through the right hoop, we can continue to do what we do now, namely let the main net ride by the NS. My question to the Secretary of State is: where is this going to end? In accordance with democratic principles, we are all in the lead and we are making our own decisions. Does the Secretary of State agree with me? And if not, what powers is it going to sell out in the near future? Why did it agree that the final judgment should be in Brussels? Mr. Chairman. I do not have a crystal ball, but I dare to predict that the Secretary of State will say in her term that she will put the traveller on one. Mr Binnema was just talking about it. She already reported that across the street. Only when she was asked in which she then manifested herself, she came no further than to say that it removes many barriers in cross-border traffic, that this package brings the traveller to one place throughout Europe, that Member States always put the traveller in one place in the balances they make on their domestic market, and that this is a very common principle in the Netherlands. But can I ask her to make it really concrete for once? Can she just call me a couple of things that will make the traveler say in a while that thanks to the Fourth Railway Package he has really improved? Is it getting cheaper? Does the journey go faster? Does the traveller need less to switch over, and less to check out at one and check in at the other? Mr. Binnema was just talking about that. I actually agree with his questions. How can she make that statement when she writes it down: "However, the fourth railway package does not take direct measures for the traveller. It will have to be demonstrated in practice what the concrete consequences are for the traveller"? For the moment, I can only conclude that market forces have become an end in themselves, without us having any clear advantages. I have just mentioned a number of points of concern, but I would also like to pay attention to how it should be done according to the SP, because of course we do not want a train that stops at the border crossing. Cooperation with neighbouring countries is needed so that passengers are not affected. Since seven of our provinces are bordering on one of our neighbours, it would be crazy if we didn't. In fact, if we want to achieve the climate objectives, good rail traffic within Europe can play an important role. Flying to cities that can be reached in about seven hours by train should be an exception instead of the alternative. We need this European cooperation, but this rail package is at least superfluous and counterproductive with a bit of bad luck. Because what is the case? With this proposal, we are making it possible for non-concession holders to drive on our tracks, a track that ProRail, the management organisation, recently said was full. I think we are doing quite well and I am also sincerely pleased that NS has been getting a better assessment from the traveller for a number of years now. But that proposal makes it possible to get into it precisely, messing around in timetables that are quite close to each other. Disruptions will be a probable consequence, and that does not seem to me to be an advantage for the traveller. Mr. Chairman. Next year we can welcome a broad evaluation of rail procurement. I look forward to that, but at the same time I have a comment to make. Since the 1990s, the SP has pointed out in several publications the negative effects that liberalisation and privatisation may have. Think of the energy market, the housing market, the care sector and certainly also public transport. In 2012, under the chairmanship of Mr Kuiper, the First Chamber, also called upon us to conduct a parliamentary investigation into the privatisation and independence of public services. The First Chamber has also accepted the recommendations of that committee of inquiry with our support. Apparently, the work of the committee has made little impression on the ministry, given the steps that are being taken again. Can the Secretary of State explain why this investigation apparently ended up in the deepest drawer available to the Ministry? Or am I wrong and did she embrace those recommendations? Then I'd like to know which ones they were and how. I come to the end of my speech. The SP does not agree with the proposal to allow more market forces on the track and the giving of powers to Europe. You won't be surprised, but of course we're curious about the Secretary of State's response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-eerstekamer-7.u13	Thank you, Mrs Meijer. I give the floor to Mr Pijlman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-eerstekamer-7.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I stand here as a replacement for Mr Herman, who had to withdraw from our Chamber last week because of personal circumstances. Herman had traffic and transport, including rail, in his portfolio. Mr. Chairman. We have before us a comprehensive package of measures aimed at achieving a single European railway area. This is a further step towards the completion of the European rail market. The directive should strengthen the competitiveness of the sector and thus stimulate the growth of rail transport in Europe. In addition, fast and adequate cross-border rail links can keep citizens off the plane for shorter distances. By the way, there is still a great deal to be done. Everyone who loves the train knows that but doesn't have all the time. For years it has not been possible to set up the TEN-T network between Amsterdam-Groningen-Hamburg because the Friesenbrücke is on the German side and there is little progress in the new building. Can the Secretary of State inform us how this process can also be accelerated by European intervention? On the other side of the country the three-country train Aachen-Maastricht-Liège was set up with a lot of aplomb. However, although the railway company has invested 100 million in it, the train cannot drive because of a technical dispute over a safety system with Belgium. On this point, too, I would like to be informed about the state of play. If this fourth package is implemented, are these "tracks," as NRC called it, over? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. The Dutch trail has had difficult times, but is now in good shape in comparison. Performance on the main rail network is good and performance on regional lines has been greatly improved by privatisations. Competition has done its job there. It is also striking that regional connections between the different transport companies have greatly improved. That does not mean, however, that there are no shortcomings. Investment in infrastructure, passenger services and equipment remains urgently needed. This certainly applies around the cities of the Randstad, where congestion is also high on the track. In the Randstad an "order of size" rail scale is also needed. See also the mayors of the four largest cities. I admit that it is a bit off this subject, but I would like to know from the Secretary of State what is going on in the process with that analysis. This is also an important issue for friends of the climate agreement. We also believe that many European countries will have to do much more to implement this package than the Netherlands. The implementation of the third package of measures and we were leading the way has done its job! Mr. Chairman. The discussion surrounding this package once again focuses on market forces on rail, or, as we can say, on rail planning. The public task focuses on the infrastructure and a regulated market in which parties are still active with public shareholders. The directive is now based on "contractors, unless." For us, it is very important that this is now laid down in the law. In 2025, it gives the Cabinet and the States General the opportunity to achieve a balanced choice on the basis of the announced midterm review, the performance indicators associated with it, and the evaluation of those quality agreements. It is up to us to decide whether we want to spend or whether we want to give it directly. If we want the latter, we have to answer for it. But we believe that the directive and the law are formulated in such a way that this is quite possible. Politically speaking, direct or public procurement is often a very fundamental discussion, as we have just heard in Mrs Meijer's contribution. D66 doesn't. The definition of the conditions we impose on the planning question is likely to be more decisive for the outcome than the choice for the award or procurement. For us, the importance of the traveller must be the starting point. We also think that the price of the ticket should be included in the choices for the future, because the Dutch trains are very expensive compared to those in other European countries. This directive and the present law give us the opportunity to make our own choices. Can the Secretary of State inform us what the weighing process to 2025 will look like? Do I understand the need for an economic balance test, especially for part of the main rail network, in the event of a possible call for tenders, so that the effects on the main rail network become clear? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-eerstekamer-7.u15	Mr. Pijlman now praises the delights of market forces on the trail. He also says: Dutch rail transport is very expensive. Maybe he can go into the example I have just mentioned from Britain, where prices have sometimes increased by 245% on some lines at busy times.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-eerstekamer-7.u16	At this time of the Brexit I leave Britain for a while and I confine myself to the Netherlands. I seem to recall that there has been a radical privatisation in Britain. I don't know the numbers, but it may have had the effects you're sketching. This is not at all the case in the Netherlands. I have already said that the balance between the market and private sector, as we have done so far in the Netherlands, has benefited travellers enormously. There would not have been a whole series of lines which were not properly managed by the NS at the time, as you yourself said, if we had left it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-eerstekamer-7.u17	Mr. Pijlman does sneak around a little by referring to the Brexit. The Brexit isn't a fact yet. I am talking about the fact that 25 years ago, through liberalisation in England, market forces were allowed on the track. They have done this really big, with the result that even for the Brexit prices sometimes up to 245% have gone up. So perhaps Mr Pijman can go into that after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-eerstekamer-7.u18	No, because that's not our situation at all. We were not, and are not now, in the process of large-scale privatisation of the railways. In this law it remains possible to grant the main rail network directly. It remains possible to set conditions, on price, on switching arrangements and on the frequency of lines. That's the balance I'm looking for. It is precisely the balance between public procurement and privatising that has led to a much better organisation of public transport in the Netherlands than, let us say, 15 years ago, when this privatisation was not yet under discussion. Then, because there was one provider, all kinds of regional lines threatened to disappear. That is the framework and I would like to build on it. Let's leave the English for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-eerstekamer-7.u19	Finally, Mrs Meijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-eerstekamer-7.u20	Then I conclude that Mr Pijlman may have had part B and I and the speakers before me have read part A, from which we have all clearly seen that this package is working properly and opening a door to more market forces and liberalisation on the track.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-eerstekamer-7.u21	Piece A or piece B... I think we have the same pieces. At least I hope so. However, due to your political principles, you can come to different conclusions. I think that's what this is about. It is quite clear that the SP is not directly on the market side and that D66 does criticize the market and wants rights for the government, but also has confidence in the market. Those are different starting points.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-eerstekamer-7.u22	I agree with Mr Pijlman that at the moment our rail system and also the rail transport operators are working very well. By that I mean the NS on the main rail network and the other companies on the other networks. What we want to implement now could intervene in that greatly improved situation. You yourself ask the Secretary of State to outline how we stand in 2025. I would like to say that these improvements have also been achieved with the current concession system for the NS on the main grid. Would it therefore be your preference to continue along this road instead of allowing full competition on the main grid as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-eerstekamer-7.u23	I would find it extremely unwise to make a choice in this matter at this stage. I think we all need the midterm review. We all want to know whether the performance we agreed on together has been achieved. I believe that the pressure exerted by market forces at the time has led to a much better performance of the NS. I don't want to deny that. So I'm not saying, yes, we're going to open up the main rail network. I see a lot of disadvantages with you. But I'm not saying no, let's give it to him directly. Let's set the terms together, review the evaluations together and then make our choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-eerstekamer-7.u24	You have also indicated that you think it is important that this choice for the Netherlands remains completely intact, between either direct award or contracting. I think that is an important observation. I listened to you very carefully. However, I note that the NS has improved not so much by market incentives, but by the fact that the government itself has set out further criteria. In this case it was the dialogue between the government and the company itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-eerstekamer-7.u25	You will not deny that the European directives and the market forces that were used elsewhere have naturally led to a different conversation between the government and the NS than before. Mr. Chairman. The concessions on the main rail network are committed until 2025, but those on the regional lines until 2020; these lines will then be open to tender. There could be tension in that. Let me give you an example. The operator of the Valley Line would like to see Utrecht as the final destination instead of Amersfoort. I know the Cabinet has looked at the possibilities, but that's not what I'm talking about right now. Suppose there were practically no objections. So how's the tender going? After all, the route Amersfoort-Utrecht belongs to the main rail network and is fixed until 2025. How do the different tender dates or award moments relate to each other? Mr. Chairman. The D66 Group looks forward to the answers of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-eerstekamer-7.u26	Thank you, Mr. Arrowman. I give the floor to Mrs Fiers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-eerstekamer-7.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "That runs like a train" is an old Dutch saying, which is still topical. Despite our national hobby, namely complaining about #train life, as we have been able to do extensively today, the Netherlands has internationally compared good quality public transport on the railways. We would like to keep it that way, as I believe all the speakers have said. That does not mean that there is nothing to improve. In front of us today lies the Fourth Railway Package. That is indeed a whole package, which could make you lose track again. That is why my contribution focuses on two important aspects in the assessment of the package before us today, but also on all the proposals that will be made in the future. Because, as a number of speakers have already said, a number of essential policy choices are coming towards us. First of all, I would like to focus on what we really want to achieve, in other words: what is the objective? Secondly, I would like to comment on how we intend to achieve this. First of all, the what-question. The Secretary of State states in the debate in the Lower House that its objective is actually very simple to summarize, namely "The traveller at number one." My group is pleased to hear that market forces are not an end in themselves. "The traveller on number one" is also in line with the report The traveller in the cold, which was written following the Fyra parliamentary survey, in which firm conclusions were drawn on the position of travellers. With that premise "The traveller on one" you can't really disagree, you'd say. But the question is, of course, to what extent the traveller exists. The desires of travellers with regard to travel time, as short as possible, with regard to comfort, as little as possible, and with regard to affordability, as cheap as possible, are probably fairly equal, but my group believes that the starting point "The traveller on number one" cannot be achieved in all situations at the same time. For example, the affordability of a ticket may be at odds with the desire to get somewhere as quickly as possible. And the maximum travel time on one route can have a negative travel effect on another route. Does the Secretary of State agree with us that "the traveler at number one" is not true in that sense? This brings me to a central conclusion of the investigation of this Chamber called Disconnection, which appeared after the parliamentary decision-making on the privatisation and independence of public services. On the basis of an investigation into telephony, postal services, energy and rail, the Committee of Inquiry concluded that citizens are unduly reduced to customers in the decision-making process. The question to the Secretary of State is therefore: isn't it better if the starting point was "Citizen number one"? One of the recommendations of the investigation Disconnected is that prior to parliamentary decision-making, the public interests that may be at stake should be explicitly identified so that a broader weighting of those public interests can take place. Therefore, the following questions to the Secretary of State. Does she share this conclusion? And is this inventory provided for? And more specifically in relation to the decision-making that is taking place here today: is this desired broad weighting of public interests affected by the package of measures before us today? And if so, how? I assume, moreover, that the Secretary of State will also make the recommendations of this parliamentary inquiry an integral part of further decision-making and that it will also make explicit the way in which it does so in the future. So please confirm that. Mr. Chairman. The second point is the question of how. This question is important on the way to new agreements on the main rail network in 2025. An important building block for this decision-making process is the investigation that the Secretary of State has carried out in 2019 into the experience with market functioning through public transport procurement in recent decades. I would like to ask the Secretary of State to share this report with this Chamber as well. A second important building block is the research Choosing for a good track. It sets out four main scenarios for rail planning after 2024. The advantages and disadvantages of the various possibilities are clearly and coherently reflected, and on the basis of these scenarios, the Secretary of State intends to take a decision in 2020. The researchers of Chosen argue for a good lead: "The current good performance is accompanied by vulnerabilities in the organisation and in the limited direction to ensure integrated decision-making." As a disadvantage of the competition model, the researchers argue that "it is becoming increasingly challenging to achieve the required alignment, as more parties are active on and around the track." The order and the degree of direction therefore call strongly for attention to be paid to future decision-making. The passenger association Rover, with the starting point of the Secretary of State "The Traveller on One" a not negligible stakeholder, sets the starting point for the future: first direction, then organization. According to Rover, direction is to say: "Sturdying and coordinating activities beyond the borders of the parties concerned." This is an important and logical starting point for the PvdA. The question to the Secretary of State is whether she shares this principle, namely "first direction, then organisation', from the point of view of its system of responsibility. And if so, can she promise that this order will be used? And can she explain how she wants to shape this concretely? In the context of management, the question arises as to how the State Secretary looks at the mix of tendering of regional lines and direct award to the main rail network chosen in the Netherlands. It is also questionable whether it recognizes that in many European countries there is no tender at all, which may not make a further advance of the Netherlands a logical choice either. The Rover passenger organisation states "that contracting the main rail network is an experiment whose risks are disproportionate to the problem to be solved'. This raises the question to the Secretary of State as to how and to what extent possible risks of a tender are taken into account in future decision-making. And to what extent is this risk weighting hampered by the present package of measures? Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. The PvdA's fraction is concerned about the free margin of consideration in the further decision-making process, and about whether the rolling train can still be adjusted in rail terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-eerstekamer-7.u28	Thank you, Mrs Fiers. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. I shall then suspend the debate and the sitting until 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-eerstekamer-7.u29	The next item is the continuation of the examination of the proposal 34914 for the implementation of the Fourth Railway Package. I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and Water Management.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-eerstekamer-7.u30	Thank you very much, Mr President. Today we are discussing the implementation of the European Fourth Railway Package. It is the fourth package and, for the time being, the final piece to complete the European internal rail market, both in the technical field and in the area of rail organisation. It should therefore contribute to the further development of rail transport, including as a credible alternative to other modes of transport. The last time your Chamber debated the railway was in 2015, with one of my predecessors. Mr. Kuiper already referred to that. This was in the context of the implementation of the recast Directive, the SERA Directive. I understand that this bill is also an opportunity for you to exchange more general views on the organisation of the Dutch railways; that was clear in the contribution. There is not always a direct reason to do so, so I understand that you have a number of questions. So I would also like to include you in some of the intentions. Part of the debate will take place later in the House of Representatives, but I can also, of course, discuss with you where we stand and what my intentions are for the coming time. As far as I am concerned, a number of decisions will be taken jointly in the framework of the railway organisation in 2020. This concerns a number of intentions arising from the coalition agreement and the need to take a timely decision on the future of the main rail network concession for the Netherlands. We need to take a decision on this in 2020 so that, depending on the choices we make, each party has at least the opportunity to prepare itself for this new concession. In addition, the coalition agreement states that we will consider the position of the stations. As far as I'm concerned, you can't see all these things apart. We should therefore have an integral debate on how we see the organisation on the track, in which we take the position of the stations, as well as a decision on whether or not to decentralise some of the lines mentioned in the government agreement as potential candidates for further decentralisation. I think that we should look at this in conjunction and then take that decision, even after we have established the future picture of the OV. I hope to send you the outline note this spring. Depending on what your picture of the future of the d.a. is, you can decide which order belongs to it and which order fits in with some of the intentions you have. Maybe I can start right away with the more philosophical question that was asked about the traveller: does the traveller actually exist? You can say that the traveler exists. You are talking about the importance of the traveller versus the interest of other parties such as the NS or ProRail, the importance of market forces in itself or the importance of no market operation in itself. So, for me, the traveler is at the forefront. This means that I will always look at what this means to that traveller through the lens of the average traveler, and whether it is in his interest or whether it serves a different interest. The traveller obviously has many interests; they vary. Here too, we will have to regularly consider and make choices. All the interests of all travellers at any time serve at the same time, cannot; choices are necessary. That is why such a vision of the future OV, I think, is an important guide to bring things back into line with the choices we make in the order. I think that is also in line with what Rover calls "direction, then order." You need to know where you're going, but you also need to know if the way you organize your infrastructure fits in with what you want to achieve. Mr. Chairman. Then I will go to the most important point in this debate: market forces, yes or no? Let me say very clearly at the beginning of this debate that market forces are not an end in themselves for me. I will always look through the traveler's lens: in this case, will it benefit from more market forces or less market forces? Those are all the discussions we're going to have with each other. For me, therefore, market forces are not an end in themselves, not to have market forces or not to have them. I believe that, without putting the dogma of market forces first, we should always look carefully at the importance of the traveller and put it first. To address one point directly from Mr Pijlman: in the case of concessions in the northern Netherlands, we have seen that the passenger has been given much more opportunities and much better public transport than there has been up to now. But the quickscan decentralisation, which we have had carried out, also indicates that you cannot just say: I translate that one-on-one to any other line, anywhere on the Dutch main rail network. So we will always have to look very carefully at what kind of line it is, what part of the main rail network it is, how important it is for the integrality of the main rail network, whether it would cause too much fragmentation, or whether it would provide additional opportunities where there would otherwise be too little supply. We will always have to consider this carefully. Is the traveller only the traveller, or should we speak of "the citizen"? I have already stated in my letter that the taxpayer also plays a role, of course. Because with a lot more money in the State Department we can do a lot more, and every State Secretary will only be very happy if more money is made available to serve the important purpose of public transport, but I also have to say that this is not the case. For example, GroenLinks, who referred directly to it, had not earmarked any extra money for the DV in the most recent counter-budget. If there's extra money, we can do more, but until there's extra money, we'll have to make the choices with the budgets we have. Then there is the really important question of what scope this bill offers for making national considerations. In addition, it might be good to say that this Fourth Railway Package is a one-on-one implementation of the Brussels regulations, without national headlines. But Brussels, that's us. It is not the case that regulations from Brussels suddenly happen to us. We are sitting at the table ourselves, negotiating ourselves and voting on this legislation in Europe, both in the Council and in the European Parliament. Of course, you may not always get 100% of what you wanted, but this is one of the packages of proposals that are part of the improvement of the European rail market. In any case, the Netherlands is pleased that we have been given the opportunity to complete the concession under way. The question has been asked: how do you make use of the existing derogation to grant a concession after all? Well, that applies to our ongoing concession, and that's what we're making use of. The NS can therefore simply serve the current concession.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-eerstekamer-7.u31	Such an answer as 'Brussels we are ourselves' sounds a bit easy to me. There's a negotiation there, and you have your own commitment. Our own commitment was not to say in the end: we hope that we can keep that concession until 2025. No, we want to be able to remain our own boss and continue to make our own choices on our own main rail network. That raises the question of what benefit we have. Could the Secretary of State answer that question? What advantage do we seek through the implementation of the Fourth Railway Package? Because we now have the feeling that we have control and that in principle we have managed it well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-eerstekamer-7.u32	But there are two things that are mixed up here. In fact, 27 Member States, including the Netherlands, are negotiating in Brussels. Then there will never be a package in which everything one of the Member States would have wanted is in it. This applies to the Netherlands and to other Member States, but we in the European Union have agreed that we will all respect these rules. So that is the basis that we have to assume. Mr Kuiper asks from his political point of view whether this should have been the case, but that is actually an old debate. I am committed to implementing this directive. The good news is that this directive leaves a great deal of room for decision-making. Of course, what you yourself see as the benefits of, for example, more market forces on the track or not is very clearly mentioned. In that we still have a large degree of choice. Let me go into that a little bit further. For example, it remains possible for the Netherlands to grant concessions to carriers. There are two conditions. Those have already been mentioned by your room. The impression may almost arise that it is a responsibility that should only be made to Brussels, but it is, I think, primarily a responsibility that you give to the traveller about the choices made. The traveller has a right to argue that it is better for him because of the choices you make. It should also be explained to Brussels that a choice is made not to protect its own market, but really in the interests of the traveller, also serves the traveller. Brussels, by the way, needs to be approved, but that is not a technical issue. However, we have to explain to Brussels why we are making the choice we are making.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-eerstekamer-7.u33	As for explaining to the traveller, I would like to return to the broader interests. It is market operation unless and unless "unless" is further completed. This means that the conditions under which "unless" will have to be substantiated are set out. I understand that this will be subject to legal review as well. Someone who does not agree can say: you say 'unless', but there are things that we cannot take into account. I am looking for the extent to which there will be room for consideration of broader public interests, as the research report states. Or is it really just about the price, about the citizen as a taxpayer or the traveller? There are more interests to consider. So I'm looking for the space for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-eerstekamer-7.u34	Sure, but there too, we have to separate two cases. On the one hand, it's about the argumentation you're doing with the main rail network concession. Therefore, you must be able to clearly argue that this is better for the traveller. There is also a wide range of issues in this respect. In addition, open access is always discussed about the economic balance test, but it is also broader than one would suspect in the term "economic balance test." I shall come back to this in response to the questions on the European implementing regulation that has been drawn up on this subject. So there are still many options to make your own choices. The introduction of open access is the second important point, but there may be further detailed questions prior to that. In the context of the market organization in general, I think it is important to say a little more about this. Open access is a separate chapter in the debate. First of all, on the decision on the planning of the railways. I have already said that we are going to take that decision in 2020. In this context, I have already launched a number of investigations, especially in order to make a good decision, on the basis of all the information. A number of these investigations also have a relationship with the Fourth Railway Package. I have a study carried out on the direct award or procurement of the new concession, research into the opportunities and threats of open access, and this year there will also be an investigation into the experience with public procurement on the railways and the public transport sector. We've tendered in a number of places. It is good to see what lessons we draw from this and how we can make use of it in the decision we take in 2020. I have already discussed the research design in a debate with the House of Representatives. It has also been supplemented on a number of points, but the aim is to learn from the experience of market operation so far, to understand its effects, the critical success or failure factors and the way in which government management has operated, mitigated or strengthened effects. I believe that we need to get a clear picture of what has been achieved by the market forces that have been in place so far. In addition, I have a lot of other studies done. I have the ACM run a quick scan of the extent to which there is currently a level playing field, looking at the different parties on the track; this following the motion-Seeings. I have already mentioned the examination of the implications of the tender. I'm also investigating the different options for the position of stations. We are investigating scenarios for domestic and foreign transport by the HSL-South. A quick scan has recently been carried out on the possibilities of decentralisation of the four railway lines. I have already mentioned the research design on the experience of public procurement. These seven studies will also form the basis for decision-making in 2020. Then something about the space that still exists and the improvement of quality. If you grant privately, you still have to meet two conditions in the next period. First, the new concession should lead to an improvement in the quality of services or cost-effectiveness, or both. The quality of services is very broad. This can also be argued in the light of greatly improved sustainability, greatly improved cost efficiency, greatly improved accessibility, greatly improved networking, and greatly increased frequency. There are many aspects that can be taken into account in the argument that the quality of services has improved. In addition, you should be able to indicate that the award is justified in the light of relevant structural and geographical characteristics, in particular its size, the characteristics of demand, the complexity of the network, its technical and geographical isolation and the services covered by the contract. The Netherlands is a rather compact country. Research has already been carried out on what it would mean if you cut up the main rail network and what degree of extra complexity you get and whether that is in the interests of the traveller. Those are all aspects that can be taken into account in the consideration and those also take into account the argument why you have a choice for whether or not a direct award. You can also choose whether or not to give the main rail network a certain size. Those are all aspects that weigh in, so it's wider than just the question of whether you're for or against market forces. On the basis of a wide range of aspects, you can justify why or not a choice is made for direct award.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-eerstekamer-7.u35	I understood that these two conditions were explicitly introduced by the Netherlands in the negotiations. The predecessor of the Secretary of State, Mrs Dijksma, has made use of this, so that the Netherlands has its own instruments to allow for direct award in the future, for example. I welcome the fact that the Secretary of State is investigating, but I am also curious about her political assessment of this. The Fourth Railway Package and the European perspective behind it are also very politically loaded. In this context, it really is a free market, a liberalised market with open market forces, but the Netherlands has always questioned this. We have always resisted it. This remains important in order to stay on track in the Netherlands. I therefore ask the Secretary of State, for my reassurance, my group still has to consider this matter in order to give her perspective. If that does not happen, if we are simply doing an investigation here and there, contracting or anything else, then that does not reassure me. I want to know whether the Dutch Government is consistently engaged in this. Does the government also consider it important that the main rail network should remain intact and that this should not be fixed? We have a national carrier the State is 100% shareholder of. There is therefore not only a financial interest, but also a social and cultural interest. Can the Secretary of State say anything about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-eerstekamer-7.u36	I understand Mr Kuiper's comments, but in part this is a debate that I am going to have with the House of Representatives in 2020. It wouldn't be nice to say that I've already come to a conclusion, before I've seen the reports I've had done and before I've been able to debate with the House of Representatives. I can answer Mr Kuiper on a number of points. Market forces are not an end in themselves to me. That's my political direction. I'm looking at what I think is in the interests of the traveller. I do share with Mr Kuiper the importance of keeping the core of a main rail network intact. It will be difficult in the Netherlands to continue providing a high-quality public transport service if you do not leave a core of a main rail network intact. Too much complexity would be at the expense of services. See how busy it is in the Randstad and how many passengers use a limited number of lines that also cross frequently. Maintaining an important core of the main rail network is of great importance for public transport in the Netherlands. This does not depend on whether it should be awarded or tendered directly, but a number of studies have been carried out for this purpose. I will always look at it through the traveler's lens, but we are still going to talk about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-eerstekamer-7.u37	It is good if the Secretary of State points out that market forces are not an end in themselves, but I am trying to point out that in this European directive and in the European approach there is a dynamic that always puts market forces first. If you want to take a political stance on this, you must indeed formulate it. I understand you want to wait until 2020. You'll be looking at reports. But a political statement could be made now, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-eerstekamer-7.u38	But my political statement is...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-eerstekamer-7.u39	I mean, we're sitting here quietly on a Tuesday afternoon, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-eerstekamer-7.u40	Sure. I understand you'd like that. That is why I give you my political lens, namely that market forces are not an end in themselves for me. That may be a very clear statement. And I also say that I will always judge the outcome of those reports by the lens whether it is in the interests of the traveller. That "interest of the traveller" is broadly defined. There are a number of aspects to this and that goes beyond a very simple economic balance test. These are the lenses I can at least give you today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-eerstekamer-7.u41	The Secretary of State says that market forces are not a goal. But if we agree next week, the starting point will of course be "contracted, unless." I'm just looking for the report Choosing for a good lead. That's the investigation the Secretary of State had done. There's gonna be a lot more reports, but she's already got one. The researchers say in that report: there will soon be a Fourth Railway Package, and we still have to see how the European judge will ultimately judge that "contracting, unless', how that will work out in practice and how much space there will ultimately turn out to be. Now the Secretary of State says in the debate here, and also in the House of Representatives: everything can be weighed and it is much wider. She mentions sustainability and working conditions, and says that all these aspects can be taken into account. Maybe I read the pieces with different glasses, but when I read them, I see that it is said: it is 'no, unless', and that 'unless' requires a good justification. That seems to be a lot more dependent on the financial interest and the traveller. I'm a little worried about those other public interests. The question is therefore whether the Secretary of State would like to go into this a little more closely, also referring to the report she already has.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-eerstekamer-7.u42	I can go into that in more detail by saying that I think it is important that this possibility of balancing is still there, but it has also been made clear that, if you make that assessment, you should also be able to explain why you are making it. I think that the difference this directive makes may be greater for other European countries than for the Netherlands. We had of course been used to wondering in the Netherlands for some time now, look at the decentralisation of the lines which is actually best for the traveller on a particular line. Of course, we also have experience of supporting it in various ways. Do you choose decentralisation or not? We are now again in such a balancing process, for four lines. Once again, I would like to see this lead to an integrated decision-making process, because if you cut off some lines of the main rail network again, it will also have effects on that main rail network. And that complexity is one of the important things for me. So I think this might have been a bigger step for other Member States than for the Netherlands. We will keep that space to make that assessment, but we will have to be able to argue it properly. And I think that's just normal. A very important point, to which many Members have referred, is perhaps that aspect of open access that will start for decentralised lines by 2020. The exception is therefore obtained for the main rail network concession. Until 2025, the end of the main rail network concession, there is no open access on the main rail network. This means that open access applies to the decentralised lines. There is therefore indeed an asymmetry: the NS could offer services of open access on the decentralised lines, but the decentralised lines could not do so with the NS. Mr Pijlman specifically asked about the situation at the Valley line. We have been asked whether this Valley line can be extended to Utrecht. We have recently looked at this wish, even without entering into open access. This may also be a nice illustration of how the passenger's interest is diverse at the same time, but it is the only lens that makes it necessary to look at the conflicting wishes of two carriers. The decentralised carrier wanted to continue the stop train, and the NS was interested in more frequent intercity deployment on the same piece of track. There was actually only capacity to pull through one of the two. So you have to make a choice and see how many travelers would benefit from one of the two scenarios in what way. That's how ProRail ultimately determines how that capacity is deployed. It wouldn't have been impossible to make the choice to go through the Valley line, but then there would have to be a conversation with NS about converging and possible compensation. When we go to open access later, open access always means that an offer must be made on top of the existing offer. And then there's also a test, performed by the ACM, to prevent some kind of cherrypicking happening, so that a decentralised carrier or someone who wants to offer open access is just going to drive a piece off the main rail network that is needed to generate revenue for the rest of the concession. The removal of the proceeds required elsewhere in the rest of the concession could compromise the economic balance within the existing concession. That is why the economic balance test is important. It will therefore always be examined whether it is really in the interests of the traveller and whether it adds something to the options that the traveller has, without undermining the existing order. Because then you would have a situation that you do not want, in which a number of parties are responsible for a number of very profitable lines, and the taxpayer is actually the only one who would then be responsible for the costs of the other, uneconomic lines. That's a situation no one wants to go to. It is therefore also foreseen in European legislation that this economic balance test should always be applied. The ACM will work out that economic balance test and will also have to assess whether the economic balance of the concession in question is not affected. In my view, I have answered a number of questions about the economic balance test. So that is also the implementing regulation that Mr Meijer, Mr Kuiper and Mr Binnema asked for. The ACM is now developing this in a policy rule. Here, too, it is not just about the economy in the narrow sense of the word, but also about the effects on performance and the quality of the total supply of rail services, as well as on the timetable of the train services. So also those aspects of complexity and integrality of the offer then emerge. It will also look at the effects on connections with other modes of transport. So that economic balance test is really a pretty broad test. We have been asked whether that report has disappeared in the bottom drawer. No, I have also brought this forward in the course of the preparation of this debate. And by the way, the intention in the coalition agreement to transform ProRail into Zbo is also in line with the conclusions that were drawn at that time on the importance of public guidance on public interests. Infrastructure is certainly one of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-eerstekamer-7.u43	In fact, I asked what deep drawer that report ended up in. But my question was also: what recommendations did you take from that and how did you infuse them?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-eerstekamer-7.u44	For example, my decision to really achieve an integrated decision-making process by 2020, in the interests of the traveller, of all the individual elements discussed in the government agreement, will provide clear public guidance on the whole rail infrastructure and on the railway system. And, of course, this public direction is one of the important recommendations in this report. For example, that's a way I took that. And by the way, the transformation of ProRail into a public-law Zbo is also a matter that fits in with that desire to bring more public tasks and public resources under public control. I hope that this transformation will also benefit from the support of the SP. Because in short, if it's all public, what do you need a board of Commissioners for? Perhaps I should just mention a few more factual points as well. The price of the train ticket in the Netherlands has been asked. Is this price exorbitantly high compared to its price in the rest of Europe? It might be good to point out that that investigation wasn't just about the price of the train ticket. It was all public transport services. The taxi was also in there, for example. So it's really much wider. I have also checked whether there is actually a good comparison, a good benchmark of the prices of train tickets in Europe. Turns out there isn't. So I hope that the European Commission will listen to this debate and say: we are going to take care of that. Because such an overview can, of course, help to get an idea of how well your railway companies are doing. When we look at traveler satisfaction, at costs per maintenance of the rail and the like, we see that the Netherlands is doing well and that our parties perform well. Of course, we can see this by the fact that they always make the agreements we have made with them. I think we should be proud of that, with all those people who are so hard at work on the track, even today, in these circumstances. I have answered the question concerning the Valley Line. The Friesenbrücke on the German side is indeed out and forms the specific problem on the Amsterdam-Groningen-Hamburg line. The Wunderlinie project is working on a faster and more comfortable rail link between Groningen and Bremen. The European commitment does not affect the speed with which the procedures are carried out in Germany. We hope, of course, that a TEN-T grant already received can be used for this purpose. There's a meeting at the beginning of February. I hope to write a hopeful letter to the House of Representatives on this subject shortly. We hope that the technical pillar of this package will make licensing easier and faster, for example for the three-country train. For the traveller too, it will have a very concrete result that the licence will only have to be granted by a onestop shop. Even if the train goes through three countries, it will eventually be on the track faster. That is why, I think, it is really important for this implementation to continue. I hope I have answered Members' questions with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-eerstekamer-7.u45	Thank you. We now come to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Kuiper.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-eerstekamer-7.u46	Thank you, Mr President. I thank the Secretary of State for the answers. I'm just gonna walk past my three points. My first point was indeed about the scope that the national authorities still have to grant. That is actually the point. I have heard the Secretary of State say: yes, that space is completely there, because we do not even need approval from Brussels; we can do so, because we can argue it and then it is good. However, I also see in the documents that such a thing can be challenged. Imagine giving something to the Dutch Railways and you argued that with those two conditions. Then there may still be parties, the big competitors, who feel disadvantaged and are going to fight that. Let us say that it is the Deutsche Bahn who also wants to ride the Dutch rail network. Are we going to be in a situation of procedure and fuss, which makes you feel like you have that space, but maybe you don't? I would like a more precise answer to that. My second point was about those regional lines and open access. You yourself indicated that these lines will be opened from 2020. Then let's take the Valley line as an example. Is it then conceivable that, in addition to the present society, I believe that Arriva has been mentioned as another one who says: I also want to drive over that line and I want to pass all those stations with my vehicles and so on? If so, it'll be exciting. I'd like that to be clearer. Does the ACM indeed have the possibility to say: no, that cannot be because of the economic balance, but also because of a number of other factors that are weighed? By the way, I would very much like to have mentioned these other factors again. Then there is my final point. You say that there will indeed have to be an implementing act or protocol from Europe in December. You say that it is currently being worked out with or with the ACM. I understand, therefore, that it comes unilaterally from Europe, i.e. from the European Commission, and that its provisions are also binding. So you just have to do it. Then it is not that we hold the pen of it ourselves, no, it is a protocol or some kind of manual that you have to follow. I'd like to know more precisely. You emphasise in your answers that we can weigh widely. I'd like to see a little more proof of that, though. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-eerstekamer-7.u47	Thank you, Mr. Kuiper. I give the floor to Mr Binnema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-eerstekamer-7.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also for the first-term response. The question of whether the traveller or the passenger's interest is central or guaranteed and whether that criterion can be used, I did not mean so much as a philosophical question, although it could be applied very philosophically. But it is actually a very practical question, which reminds me a bit of last autumn's discussion about gas extraction and the effects of going off the gas and the question of how to balance the interests of different groups. Eventually, the principle of "the traveller centrally" will also lead to a breakdown in the weighting of the effect of the method of contracting and the direct or indirect award of concessions. You yourself state in the answer that, for example, there are considerations in the Valley line where the interests of some travellers outweigh those of others. And choices to allow or not to allow a certain fragmentation of the main rail network can also be in favour of certain groups of passengers and to the disadvantage of other groups of passengers. Perhaps there are at a general level, so when it comes to accessibility of travel information, the combination of different subscriptions with different carriers, the connection between metro, tram, bus and train, the connection between trains and the problem of checking in with one carrier and checking out with another, a number of general criteria should be taken into account, but at the same time choices should be made as to how one passenger's interest should be weighed against that of another. The question also arises from the following. When we say that it is possible to use the system of direct award and that the weighting is based on cost-effectiveness, improvement of the quality and structure of the Dutch rail system, then the answer that is central to the passenger or that progresses on it is likely to be insufficient to support the choice of direct award. Mr Kuiper asked in one of his interruptions what my second point was. The debate is a little too technical to our liking. Also from this Chamber is asked very often: do you want to investigate this? It is also often pointed out that legislative proposals must be well-founded by research. In my view, this raises the fundamental question of whether, before we have seen seven further investigations, there are any comments on the course set to allow more market forces and to apply the principle that we are contracting unless there are very good reasons for not doing so. In that sense, I had hoped that this debate would also be an opportunity to answer the question of whether we consider public transport to be an important public good, comparable to good education, good care and safety, something more fundamentally. Or do we consider it an accidental choice that someone makes to undertake the journey he could have made by bike or car? I will conclude with this, especially since this debate has not really made it clear what the traveller is doing with market forces. In itself, I welcome a general statement such as'market forces are not an end in themselves'. That would indeed be a bit too scratchy. But if market forces are not an end in themselves but are being promoted and are starting points, then much more insight should be made into what that traveller actually does with that market operation, whether in the Dutch context or in the international context. I have actually missed out on this debate in terms of more support and more proof of the fact that this traveller is actually doing something about market forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-eerstekamer-7.u49	Thank you, Mr. Binnema. I give the floor to Mrs Meijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-eerstekamer-7.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me start with Mr Binnema's last words: it is good that market forces are not an end in themselves. I fully agree with that. It is the purpose of this package, of this directive, so that is another matter of concern to me. I find the statement by the Secretary of State that we are Brussels too much too easy. We have negotiated there and this is the outcome: the door remains open for a mandatory tender. That's just a fact. We keep looking, so to speak, at the importance of the traveller. What's that? I don't think that's very well substantiated. It is often reflected, in care, in the housing market, and in the energy market. But look what is happening now in countries where these railways are left entirely to competition! I do not yet see any real improvement for the traveller; I see above all what goes wrong when a utility is left to the market. That doesn't make me hopeful. I really hope that the Secretary of State will be able to make more concrete what the traveller is getting at once this package has been put in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-eerstekamer-7.u51	Thank you, Mrs Meijer. I give the floor to Mr Pijlman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-eerstekamer-7.u52	Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the Secretary of State, I am not in a good mood, I am sorry for her short but also very clear statement as far as we are concerned that we are also Brussels. A politician in the Netherlands doesn't often say that. I would like to hear it more often, because if you work together, you also know that you enter into negotiations with a certain intention and with certain basic principles, but that there are 27 other countries and that you must also support the compromise. Then it is good to emphasise once again, also to Mrs Fiers, that it was a PvdA Secretary of State who negotiated this package. This package has been accepted by the European Parliament, including by its own PvdA Group. It has been discussed by the House of Representatives and approved by your own PvdA Group. They didn't see all the objections you're now raising. So I hope you will go into that again, because this is not a package full of market forces. It's not really about that at all. The Secretary of State has made this very clear: market forces yes or no, it is not an end in itself, so we are about to make those choices with each other. There is a need to improve travellers, for which many criteria have been set. That's reassuring for us. I would ask the Secretary of State to send those seven reports to this Chamber, so that we can follow that debate ourselves. But I am confident that we will monitor the interests of Dutch travellers in full width and come to a clear choice. We are not dependent on Brussels, we are making our own choices here, we are accountable. And that's essential. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-eerstekamer-7.u53	Thank you, Mr. Arrowman. I give the floor to Mrs Fiers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-eerstekamer-7.u54	Mr. Chairman. To respond immediately to Mr Pijlman: I read in that fine thick book by the state committee that the function of the First Chamber is too often dominated by what is happening across the street. So I thought, let me start by setting an example and making my own assessment. Maybe just for the input: I have three points. First of all, I would like to zoom in on something that we have talked about in detail in the debate, but on which I still have a somewhat unsatisfactory feeling, namely the optimism with which the Secretary of State says that there will soon be a lot to weigh up. This refers to "contractors, unless', which is further completed. I read in that investigation what the Secretary of State had done, after all, is really concerned about how this is going to turn out legally. I see just a mismatch between the optimistic sound of the Secretary of State, which I very much love, not the Secretary of State, but the optimistic sound of the House and the caution about how that is going to work out. This is something important, so I hope the Secretary of State will reflect on that. Then there are two other points on which I have not really had a reaction, starting with Rover's statement: first direction, then order. The Secretary of State also had a nice, practical example of how things are going when there is a particular track to be considered. God knows how many people you'll have to talk to to direct. Does she support that point of departure? Could she perhaps comment a little more specifically on how she sees it and whether that is indeed temporary? First the direction properly arranged and then adjustments in the order. The third point, also from my first term, is that Rover says very clearly that the tender is actually a major experiment, where the risk is disproportionate to the problem that should be solved. I'm actually curious about the Secretary of State's risk analysis. Does she see any risk there? How does it allow that to be taken into account in the decision-making process?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-eerstekamer-7.u55	Thank you, Mrs Fiers. I'm gonna take a look at the Secretary of State. Do you have an opportunity to answer directly? You want five minutes of suspension. Then I'll suspend the meeting until 4:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-eerstekamer-7.u56	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-eerstekamer-7.u57	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before I begin my second answer, I would like to say that I believe that we have had a very interesting debate on the question of market forces, yes or no, quite apart from what it says in the directive and what that means for the Netherlands. It will certainly not be the last debate we have with each other. I do not think there is a single answer to that, apart from a political colour, but I think it is our job to try to get the facts as clear as possible, so that we have a common picture of what the experience we have gained so far in practice has produced. One of the important recommendations in the report was also: take small steps, look back and then decide what is the right next step. In this context, I believe that the choice made in the UK to do so at once in a big bang is also a great risk. That's what your room asked for. I would indeed find that risky. Of course, you end up taking those kinds of risks into consideration. The same goes for the lessons learned from earlier steps you have taken. Mr Kuiper actually had three specific points. One of them was about space: we do not have to ask Brussels for approval, but is it not true that a third party can object? Quite in fact: when we are committed to implementing the directive, have implemented the directive, and in the light of that directive decide on a direct award or procurement, in both cases a third party can say: I object to the way in which this procedure has been conducted. This has also been the case with the previous concession. That is not, therefore, something that is specifically related to this legislative proposal or to the situation that then arises. In addition, the European Commission can, of course, always take the view that a Member State does not implement a directive sufficiently, as it intended, and can, of course, always initiate an intergroup procedure, but that is the implementation of the directive. Both possibilities exist, but that of that third party is thus already the case. This directive does not change that. A very specific question was whether open access could mean that alongside Arriva, for example on the Valley line, another party could have access. Yes, that might be possible, but that economic balance test will become important. This relates to that specific concession and it is therefore examined whether such open access really leads to an on-top product, i.e. an additional offer and an enrichment of the offer for the passenger on those lines, without compromising the core of that concession and thus becoming economically unbalanced to allow that additional provider. The ACM checks that out. Mr Kuiper referred to the implementing regulation. We are, of course, committed to adopting a regulation one-on-one. This specific Regulation obliges the ACM to draw up such a test, which should include a number of elements. The development of these elements is then up to the ACM itself, as is the case with the other supervisors in the other Member States. The ACM is now working on the elaboration of that test. Mr. Chairman. What's that test looking at? The negative effects on the profitability of the existing rail service, the net cost of the concession, as well as the net benefits of the new service for the passenger, the impact on the quality of rail transport and the impact on the timetable, will of course be taken into account. All these effects are taken into account and so they are wider than the whole scary economic test. I think that's what your room asked for, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-eerstekamer-7.u58	One more question, and I think I'll have the picture. Let me come back to that open access on the regional lines. We were talking about that example of the Valley line. Do you expect many railway undertakings to come forward to compete on those regional lines when that opens in 2020? Do you have any suspicions about that? Or do you already have an insight into that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-eerstekamer-7.u59	No, I don't, but given the inherent characteristics of some of those lines, that may not be obvious. The Province currently pays a fee to the concessionaire to drive those lines. This means that the line was not sufficiently profitable in the past. That probably also makes it less attractive for a third party to say: I will deliver an on-top product for the traveller at my own expense. But there is that possibility. If a provider says "I can do it so much smarter; I can do it with a closing business case," then the regulation offers that possibility, provided that this is not at the expense of the existing concession, where in this case public money goes to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-eerstekamer-7.u60	I find it difficult to imagine that you are saying that the Ede-Amersfoort line suddenly has two companies and that we agree with it through the ACM on the basis of the criteria you mention. That seems to me to be almost impossible, regardless of whether you want two companies to go on such a line at all. Anyway, I'm happy like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-eerstekamer-7.u61	Thank you very much. Then there is the question: what does the traveller actually gain from market forces? If the question is asked like this, you could almost assume that a specific lens is looking at it. On the lines we have decentralised, it has led to an increase in quality, a better provision of services and a more affordable one. That's what got it on those lines. I also said that the quickscan shows that you can't translate that one-on-one into any line at any other place in the Netherlands. It is therefore important to consider carefully. Mr Binnema says on the one hand that he wants things to be substantiated, but on the other hand he has some criticism of the fact that I have a number of things examined. Then there could also be the risk that support without research could also lead to abdomen. I don't think we want any of that. We discussed the study of the effects of market forces. I think it is important for careful decision-making, which we stand for in 2020, to have a good picture of the advantages and disadvantages. It's a big decision that depends a lot on it. I therefore think it is important to learn from the experiences we have in the Netherlands. Then there was the question of what the traveller would do with it. I would like to mention the technical pillar once again. The fact that it takes so much effort to create a three-country train also has everything to do with the fact that there are different inspections with different rules. If some of these technical authorisations are to be made through a one-stop shop, it is clear to carriers who they should be with to make such an application and we also know that all important inspections there can be involved in a similar manner, but perhaps more efficiently. This can help speed up decision-making, particularly on international lines. From experience I can tell you that it is tough matter, even though I am very motivated to improve it. I think this can certainly contribute to this. Mr Pijlman asked about the reports. I'm sure they'll be available to you as well. Mr. Chairman. Then the "buying, unless." How are we supposed to appreciate that? What role does that play? Well, that's important, isn't it? It is simply a fact that the directive, as it was adopted in Europe and to which we have to abide, 'contracted, unless' has been laid down as a principle. But we should not equate procurement with the fact that public interests can no longer be served. In an invitation to tender you can also indicate to which public interests the parties who tender for such a tender must satisfy. That's what you see happening in the provinces where the calls for tenders were made. This concerns public interests such as accessibility, quality, but also, for example, how often they have to provide a service at a minimum. These are, of course, all matters that can be included in an invitation to tender. So you can also decide by means of a tender which public interests you would like to guarantee. It is more of a technical matter, but it is not just a question of financial interests, unless you say as a contractor: that is all I think is important. But I think that we share the view that much more matters are important for the traveller.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-eerstekamer-7.u62	This means that with the Fourth Railway Package, which is now before us and which will ultimately be the subject of the decision next week, the 'unless' will be completed. So this is seen in the way you can motivate you to opt for the exception. The question then is whether other public interests that may not be directly motivating the passenger's interests, such as working conditions, sustainability and thinking of a few more, may also be taken into account in the future and thus lead to a decision that ultimately stands by the judge who has to look at it. So I am really looking for the answer to the question whether the 'unless' we are filling in today leaves room for other interests than that somewhat closer concept of 'the traveller'.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-eerstekamer-7.u63	It's always good to start with the effect you want to achieve. The effect that we want to achieve could be to anchor a certain level of working conditions, or a certain level of social security, or a certain level of integrality, or a certain level of service or frequency. Those are actually the material goals we want to achieve. Then it turns out that you can achieve that in different ways. You could achieve that with or without a tender. That is possible in either case, because in the way in which you tender, those demands can actually be made. Then the directive also gives the opportunity to say: it is 'contracted, unless'. It specifies at two levels how that should be justified. But in addition, even if you choose to award contracts, there is scope to specify the public interests in that tender as criteria for tendering. We are talking about what we want in the Netherlands, whether we do it through or without a call for tenders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-eerstekamer-7.u64	Of course, you can do it in different ways. You can also indicate it in a tender. Sometimes it can also be bloody difficult to do all the things you want to accomplish that way. But imagine that some of those goals eventually lead to your motivation to do it privately. Then you say: we think these interests are so great that this means to us that we go private. In that case, you should ultimately say on the basis of arguments: we use the exception. Do I understand correctly that arguments other than those directly related to "the train goes faster from A to B" are not ignored by the judge who says: you should not have done so, because you can only make a different choice on those things?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-eerstekamer-7.u65	It doesn't say that certain things shouldn't be included in the motivation. Of course, you must always be able to motivate why you think it relates to the motivation. So it is not so that you can say: I would like the seats to be brown and I take that as an argument. It is always necessary to state clearly why that interest leads to a certain choice, because, in the perception of the person making a choice,................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. So I have to mention that element. Then I come to the question: first direction, then steps. I think I take that very seriously in two ways. For example, I have indicated that I really want all the various elements that I consider essential for the future of the Dutch rail system and rail organisation to lead to full decision-making in 2020. So we are not going to take a separate decision on the stations or say: I think we should decide separately on decentralisation, when we have no idea what we want with the main rail network and what interests we want to serve with it. First there must be a vision of the future and then there will be decision-making on the various aspects. For me, therefore, integrated decision-making is one of the ways in which "first direction, then steps." The second is, I think, we follow the directions in the report and we take small steps. Then we have to look back, see what that does and then determine what the next step is forward. That is also an important form of direction for me on this dossier. Mr. Chairman. I hope that I have answered Members' questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-eerstekamer-7.u66	You're done answering the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-eerstekamer-7.u67	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-eerstekamer-7.u68	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-eerstekamer-7.u69	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. Then I suggest we vote on the bill next week.
