ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-3.u1	I now turn to Mr Bosman, on behalf of the VVD, for his question to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, who replaces the Secretary of State. His question is about the fall of the government of Saint Martin.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr President, thank you. First of all, I would like to congratulate the Secretary of State, who is present where it is happening. Well, that's special, isn't it? Although that is not very special, because in the last ten years the cabinet has fallen nine times on St.Maarten. Ship jumping is regularly discussed, party formation is less important than personal ambitions; that gives great concern. We have also had discussions in the Chamber about what the personal motivations of many people are now. Is that what's good for people, the good of the people, or is that a personal interest? The major reform projects, projects for the reconstruction of Sint-Maarten, involve a lot of money. That is what we make available as a parliament and a cabinet. There are different ideas about how that money is going to be spent. I hear examples like that the roof of the airport terminal has been repaired for 1,500 dollars per square meter. I know you can build houses for that amount. So the question is: what happens to that money? That is why I am expressing my concerns to the Minister, because it is about a lot of money and about personal interests. Where's that going? What is the status of the financial agreements we have made with Saint Martin? Is that money gonna stop now? Is there any idea where that money is? Does the World Bank know, for example, that we are now in some sort of limbo? Because the most important question is: who is the government now? I understand that there will be elections on 25 November. Until then there is a kind of caretaker cabinet, but in the meantime another group has already signed up with some kind of coalition agreement. So the confusion is great, the concerns are great, at least with me, but also with a lot of colleagues, I think. What happens to the money? Does it end up in the right place? And what do this Minister and Secretary of State do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-3.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mr President, thank you. I would also like to thank Mr Bosman for asking this question and expressing his concern at the situation in Saint Martin. I share that concern, as do the Secretary of State, who is now indeed on the scene. He does so as part of a previously planned work visit to a number of islands. But the most important part is the visit to Saint Martin. And indeed, as outlined and as we have read in the media, Mr Bosman says it is precisely right that there has been a political crisis due to the departure of two members of the State, which has caused the coalition, partly due to the departure of another Member of State, to lose the majority in parliament. I note with Mr Bosman that this decision leads to instability and discontinuance of the administration, which is not in the interests of the people of Saint Martin, who have been suffering for so long as a result of Hurricane Irma. The Secretary of State has also highlighted these concerns on the ground. We had good agreements with the sitting cabinet on the recovery, on the airport, on the waste problem - a huge problem there, and on the hospital. With you, I fear that the current situation may delay the reconstruction process. That's undesirable. It is good to report that Mrs Romeo-Marlin's sitting cabinet has decided by majority to apply Article 59 of the State Order of Saint Martin and to dissolve the States by country decision and order new elections. Mrs Romeo-Marlin explained this yesterday. The portfolios of the entire cabinet have also been made available. We now know that the governor has determined the country's decision to dissolve and the burden of new elections. The result is that new elections will indeed be held on 25 November, as I have just understood from Secretary of State Knops. The resignation decision is under consideration and the governor has asked the Council of Ministers to continue its responsibilities and to continue to deal with current cases. That is the actual situation: elections are imminent and a form of missionary administration will continue to deal with current affairs. For us, the importance of the population is paramount. I am through my time, but because Mr Bosman explicitly asked for it, perhaps finally the following: the consequences for reconstruction and the Dutch money and the agreements with the World Bank. Projects, for which funding from the Trust Fund has been granted, with which an agreement has been concluded between the World Bank and the government of Saint Martin, can in principle proceed, provided that the government complies with the agreements. That's the World Bank's policy. If such an agreement has not yet been concluded, we simply need to act carefully and look at whether a project can proceed or not on a case-by-case basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-3.u5	The situation is even more complex. Another group has offered a government agreement to the governor. It'll make it a very fluid system. We have a caretaker's office from Mrs Romeo-Marlin, I hope she will remain seated, absolutely; all the appreciation for her work, but it also depends on what the governor is going to do. So we have to deal seriously with all the things that are going to play now and with all the things that we are going to give to not yet earmarked money. The Minister was also very clear about this. I am very concerned about that. The majority in the States have fallen. Two people have quit, as the Minister said. The other one was in prison. He didn't quit; he was just in jail. That is also the story behind the States of Saint Martin and the concerns about it. The question is whether there is good governance. I'm worried about that. We are talking about a country that has had nine elections in ten years. It has had nine cabinets, and each cabinet has been able to complete less than a year. They have not had time to put the country on the map, to put good projects on the map and to pursue substantial policies. We can see that. As the Minister said, it's about the good of the people. It concerns the people of Saint Martin, who are actually suffering from this. Then my question to the Minister is: are we talking about ensuring good governance? Is the Kingdom now in the process of exercising that guarantee function, so that it can be guaranteed that there is good governance, which is clearly missing on Saint Martin?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-3.u6	We are looking at a political crisis, coupled with the direct action of the government by calling in Article 59. The governor confirmed that. That's what we're looking at. We are looking at an autonomous country within the Kingdom where elections are held and are also about to take place. This means that we are also looking at a transitional period in which, in my view, there are major risks to reconstruction and to ongoing matters. Although the board is asked to deal with the current cases, at the same time the parliament has been dissolved. Of course, that gives us a fluid situation. So I cannot reassure Mr Bosman on that point any more than I already do, because I share his concerns. I do not dispute that this has happened very frequently over the past ten years and that this has happened again, but I think we have to accept that this is the situation with which we have to act.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-3.u7	Finally, Mr Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-3.u8	In principle, we will not help the Autonomous State of Saint Martin if every time we feel that they will come out with new elections. I couldn't agree more. It seems to us that it is still not getting better after nine times. In fact, the image at least comes from me, from the VVD-group, that it is not going to get better. Then the question is: is there good governance? And if we find that this is not the case, then we must have the guarantee function. When does the Kingdom feel that there is or is not good governance in Saint Martin?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-3.u9	I told you, we are dealing with a political crisis within an autonomous country of the Kingdom. A political crisis, though frequent, is not yet the same as concluding that the democratic rule of law is at stake. That is the agreement we have made on autonomy within the Kingdom, and it still applies.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-3.u10	Thank you, Mr. Bosman. Then I give the floor to Mr Öztürk on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-3.u11	We too are concerned about Saint Martin, as an autonomous country within the Kingdom. I understand the Secretary of State went there because the coalition lost the majority there. This has been the case here in the Netherlands for a few hours now, in our own parliament. The coalition has lost the majority. I assume that the Secretary of State will be back as soon as possible, because we also have a majority problem here. Or do you see it differently?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-3.u12	I see that differently on two points. Firstly, the Secretary of State did not go to Sint-Maarten because he had anticipated this with a vision. It is an already planned work visit to a number of islands, as I have just said. He is now back from Saint-Eustatius on his way back to Saint-Maarten. He did show a sense of timing. I'll admit it. There has also been a situation in which the government has also found that the majority of its members have been absent. The governor has now confirmed this, which means that elections will be held. I haven't noticed anything similar here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-3.u13	Not yet!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-3.u14	Yesterday, the Prime Minister of Saint Martin gave a speech in which she said: "There is a toxic, unworkable environment here. The country is unregulateable, the trias politician is in constant danger and there are influential people outside parliament who are constantly trying to "" as she calls it "to sit in the driver's seat." This is not a political crisis, but a crisis of the rule of law in Saint Martin. If this were to happen in the Netherlands, our country would be in real danger. That is why my question to the Minister is: what is the National Council of Ministers going to do to deal with this crisis?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-3.u15	I have just said something about the situation that has arisen. I also said that on our side there are great concerns about this, especially because of the people of Saint Martin, the people of Saint Martin, who did not ask for it. So this is an unfortunate political situation which I too express my concern about. I have not been able to see the speech to which the speaker refers. I talked to Knops about that, and he said it was an impressive speech. I think this is a good thing and that this underlines that this government, which we did indeed do good things with, really had the importance of Saint Martin and its inhabitants at the forefront. I therefore believe that we must be confident that what Mrs Romeo-Marlin has decided, and has also been endorsed by the governor, is, in the present circumstances, the most passable and perhaps the only way forward, namely the re-election of elections. We will have to wait and act in the meantime in the interests of the inhabitants of Saint Martin.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-3.u16	It's a shame all this is happening. What I am particularly concerned about is that there is another hurricane season coming. My question is: where are we on reconstruction? Is it possible when things that are now on the agenda cannot continue because of this political crisis, to allow this to continue through the use of NGOs, as the citizens should be the least affected by this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-3.u17	That is a valid point. I have just outlined that the projects that are already in place are very concrete and are actually already in progress should be able to proceed in accordance with the agreements we have made with the World Bank on this matter. If that is not the case, we have to look at each project to see if it could be done in another way. It is certainly in the picture that NGOs or other private organisations could play a role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-3.u18	With us too, the great concern is the passage of reconstruction on St.Maarten due to the situation that has arisen. People have been duped there and are now being duped again if the projects do not come to fruition. The projects have started, but have not yet finished. How can we guarantee from here that these projects are actually being implemented? As has already been said, it is indeed hurricane season. How can we stay with it, so that there is not another third of such a situation for the victims on St. Martin's Day?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-3.u19	Of course, everything must be focused on that. There can be no guarantees at all, but we can do our utmost to ensure that this happens. I think it is right to agree first of all that the Secretary of State should inform your Chamber of this after returning to the Netherlands. As I said earlier in response to D66's question, the deployment of NGOs or other organisations, for example, is one of the signs of implementation. We've made that possible before, so we can still do that. I really want to emphasise here now that we also continue to stress that we are really putting the interests of the people first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-3.u20	The Christian Union is also very disappointed by the reports that the government of Saint Martin has fallen. It is the hope of the Christian Union that there will be the people who really have the good in mind with Saint-Maarten and the inhabitants and that when those people gather, the progress of Saint-Maarten can be seen. I hear the Minister say that from the Netherlands we always have the interest of the residents there in mind. That is what we are talking about, but I would ask the Minister whether she can make concrete what steps the Netherlands will take in the coming period, until the elections, so that the people will see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-3.u21	Thank you for the heartfelt commitment that Mrs Van der Graaf here, through this Question Time, actually gives to the inhabitants of Sint-Maarten. That's good. In fact, I think the answer to that is that we want to be able to continue as much as possible in the run-up to the elections as we started in cooperation and on the basis of the agreements that apply with the World Bank and also with the organisations on the ground. Because I assume that the people of Saint Martin will only be helped if they do, that we will not be paralyzed by the political crisis that has arisen there and that the outcome of the new elections will ultimately solve that problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-tweedekamer-3.u22	Thank you.
