ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u1	The next item is the debate on a possible ban on pulse fishing. I welcome the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality and give Mr Geurts the floor on behalf of the CDA as the first speaker. Speaking time is exactly four minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The CDA is extremely disappointed in European decision-making and in the so-called green lobby, which is seeking to take people from their livelihoods in fact-free. The loss is our fishermen and their families. However, the innovative fisheries policy aimed at improving the environment, ecology and greater selectivity is also at stake. I also note that we are having a debate when we do not yet have a clear picture of the extent of the disaster. Mr. Chairman. The Dutch fishermen have stuck their necks out. They have joined the story to focus on innovation. They have invested heavily financially in pulse fishing and they have finally been abandoned by several Members of the European Parliament and the French Government, who considered their own interests more important. European decision-making on its worst side! Our fishermen are furious, and rightly so, not only because of the ban on the pulse, but also because of the obligation to land, closed nature reserves, wind farms and fishing quotas, with an ever more restrictive explanation of a maximum sustainable catch. They feel extradited. And I'm not even talking about the possible consequences of the Brexit. That is why the next question to the Minister. What is the Minister doing on these issues for our fishermen? Mr. Chairman. The question is why it could have gone so wrong. I should first like to mention the fact-free campaign machines of so-called green organisations, in this case the French Bloom. These organisations are seeking to impose their vision "no more fishing and no more technological innovation in fishing," with the aim of justifying the means. The image is placed that the pulse kills everything on the sea floor, while research proves the opposite. Pulse fishing is a way of fishing with less energy consumption and hardly any ground touching. If an image is created that is not based on science and facts from practice, you can speak of fake news. There has been a situation of no actual exchange of data, no nuance and no room for compromise. That is why I appeal to colleagues, journalists, NGOs and anyone who sees or hears this: be critical of these fundamentalists; do not recite them to be supposedly green. They're screwing around. Green and innovative can also be based on science and with an eye for nuance. The Chamber has constantly pressed for the extension of pulse permits. In 2011, ChristianUnion chamber member Slob submitted a majority motion for a permanent authorisation of pulse fishing. That motion also called for additional exemptions in the short term. In 2014 there was the possibility to scale up with the pulse harness and the research. Following this emergency grip by then Secretary of State Dijksma in 2014, all alarm bells should have gone off with the Secretary of State, the Minister of Economic Affairs and the Prime Minister. Even as a Chamber, we did not, in retrospect, ask enough questions. Mr. Chairman. Then the current situation. Government agreement has literally included the need to prevent an EU ban on pulse trawling. The CDA remains here and believes that the government's efforts should now focus on the survival of our cutter fishermen. In conclusion, therefore, three questions to the Minister. Can the Minister reflect on that? What else does the Minister think is possible? Is the Prime Minister still going to play a role in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u3	We actually had this debate a year ago during a general discussion. Mr. Macron had expressed himself at the time. He said the pulse fishing should be banned. I warned the Chamber and all the colleagues present: if Mr Macron says anything, it usually happens. That's why we had to deploy at the highest level and bring in the Prime Minister. I have also tabled a motion for this, but Mr Geurts has not supported it. In hindsight, isn't that a blasphemy, Mr. Geurts? Now you're here calling for Mr. Rutte to take action, but when I told Mr. Rutte to take action, you didn't support me in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u4	That motion was in April 2018. That motion literally said not to accept a pulse trawling ban. I could still follow that and Prime Minister Rutte to allow the negotiations to take place. We have a Minister of Fisheries. I had then and now have every confidence that with soul and salvation she defends our pulse fishing abroad and also tries to arrange it. At that time, that motion was as if we, as a Chamber, were to give a licence of inability to the Minister. I wasn't gonna do that then, and I'm not gonna do that today. I remember what Minister Schouten's reaction was: to give the Prime Minister the direction? This is literally in the report. I think all this makes sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u5	And the consequences are now visible. The minister didn't get anything done. Your ex-Minister Veerman didn't do anything either. If Prime Minister Macron got involved, you should have turned the Prime Minister against it. If you don't make that chefsache, I know from experience that you can't get anything done. I told you that and you didn't listen. That's a great shame. That's how you abandoned the pulse fishermen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u6	Big words from the PVV Group. I can say a lot of things about that, but let me just say this. Does the PVV Group have more confidence in Rutte than in Minister Schouten? These words show that. When I see all the other statements from the PVV Group, I think: something is not right, there is light in between. You want Rutte gone. Apparently, the PVV Group has more faith in Rutte. I find that a little unbelievable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u7	Last year's thought of involving the Prime Minister in the whole dossier is something I can well imagine. That's what ours was, too. But last Tuesday I made the proposal to ask the Cabinet to allow the Prime Minister to attend this debate. My question is this. On Wednesday, Mr Geurts shouts: "Rutte must get to work." Then I would like to rub my eyes out and wonder why the CDA did not support the request for Rutte to be present now. Wouldn't that have been the beginning of Rutte getting on this file in support of the trade minister with all due respect for her commitment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u8	I hope Rutte's already gotten to work and he's got a few more teeth. Anyway, you can ask the Minister what's going on. The statements you are referring to have already been made on Tuesday morning. So that was not Wednesday, but Tuesday morning, before you came here with the request to add Rutte. What did I say there when it came to regulating work? The cabinet is about its own delegation and I can see it. When I look, I don't see a prime minister. Anyway, we have a minister here, and we have to deal with that today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u9	But I see some light here, following Mr Geurts towards the PVV. On the one hand, Mr Geurts argues that Rutte should be on this dossier, then a proposal is made to involve him actively and then the CDA does not give at home. I think that's a bit of a shame. I expected a little more consistency from the CDA on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u10	You should always be careful when the SGP starts on consistency against another party. I do not follow Mr Bishop's line. I think we should focus today on the present and present situation for our fishermen at the moment. We must try to improve it with man and power. I don't think there's any point in playing ball here about Rutte and I know a lot of things. I think the Prime Minister is also following this debate. gets what this Chamber expects from him. That happens more often in debates like this, because otherwise the Prime Minister should be here on a lot of subjects, and we simply have trade ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u11	Mr Geurts is talking about fake news and he himself is very positive about the pulse trawl. But I wonder what he's basing that on. Because when I look at the recent reports, I see, for example, that very little is known about the effect of the pulse kor on soil life. When we look at the effects of the pulse trawl on the reproduction of small organisms, we see that there is almost nothing known about it. Perhaps it plays a role in the fact that there were 84 pulsing vessels, but there were less than 10% of these ships under investigation. Which investigations are you basing yourself on? Because there have been only questions raised. Do you agree with me that this was not about research vessels at all, but about commercial fishing vessels?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u12	Just as the position of the Party for Animals indicates: it simply does not want the fish to be consumed, let alone caught. That's the position of the Party for Animals. I quote from an article in Het Financieele Dagblad: that the tongue sold in Boulogne on the market is in some cases malformed by pulse fish is an Indian story, Stephanie Pintou, fisherman and vice-president of the French Regional Committee for Fisheries laughs. A little further, Claire Nouvian, the founder of BLOOM, admits never to have researched pulse fish herself and does not have hard data that proves, for example, the enormous damage that would be done to young fish. Says BLOOM himself, I say to Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u13	A very nice answer to a question I didn't ask. The fact that a fisherman says it's all okay is anecdotal. I am talking about the recent reports which say: we still know very little about the pulse kor, there have been many questions raised, but because there is much too late, I repeat, much too late to start research, hardly any questions have been answered. I'm not saying that, it's not said by anyone at random, but that's what the most important pulse trawler in the Netherlands says, which is endorsed by the President of VisNed. I am not asking on which fisherman or on which newspaper articles you base yourself, I am asking on what investigations you base yourself on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u14	There are a number of investigations, which I do not have here, I say to Mr Wassenberg. But I quote the Professor of Sustainable Fisheries Management in Wageningen, Mr Rijnsdorp: the claim that electric fishing has catastrophic consequences has never been substantiated.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u15	Thank you, Mr. Geurts. I now give the floor to Mr Wassenberg on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u16	Mr. Chairman. You'll hear a slightly different story now. Fishing with electricity has been banned in Europe since 1988. The Dutch exemption to this ban has now established a line. According to many parties in this Chamber, this is a knife in the back of the Dutch fishing industry, but we think it is crocodile tears. The Netherlands has put the interests of fishermen at risk precisely at the request of these parties. For decades, fishing destroyed the soil by pulling heavy chains over the bottom of the sea. Because this form of fishing was accompanied by increasing fuel costs and a low return, a ruse was devised. With pulse fishing, fishermen tried to measure a more sustainable image and under the guise of scientific research, the government issued dozens of permits for pulse fishing. That was against all the rules, because it was agreed that no more than 5% of the fleet should be involved in research. It was proud to say that this was an innovative and sustainable practice that had replaced the beam trawl. But the benefits of pulse technology are for the cutter sector, because fuel costs, which are heavily affecting the sector, became lower and the profits of the cutter sector increased after years of losses. For example, a mouse hole in the law pulse fishing is allowed for scientific research in 5% of the fleet to be used for commercial profit, because now 84 pulse ships are sailing around. That's much more than 5% of the fleet. This is actually the same trick Japan used to keep hunting whales. Whale capture is prohibited, except for research, and so the Japanese whale fleet became a real research fleet. Thus, the Dutch cutter fleet also became a research fleet, while most cutters had nothing to do with that research. In 2016, less than 10% of the pulse cutters participated in research. The European Commission stood by and looked at them, and even implicitly approved them, although we were never allowed to see them officially. Surely it is no surprise that other Member States would not accept this? They knew very well that the Netherlands competed under false pretenses. Most of the parties here in the Chamber thought it was a fantastic stunt: abuse an exception to European rules to favour their own sector. Not 5% of the fleet equip with the pulse trawl, but more and more. Not giving 6 or 7 ships an exemption permit, but 84. That's 12 times that. What would have been the reaction of those same parties if another country had done this trick for us?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u17	This was, of course, predictable. Mr Wassenberg hangs up his traditional anti-fishing story, as he regularly hangs up anti-agricultural stories.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u18	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u19	He's putting fishing in a bad light. The fisheries sector has the task of taking environmental measures. Fishing is going to innovate and it is going to create a system that reduces soil erosion, which Mr Wassenberg complains about. Fishing creates a system that reduces by-catch...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u20	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u21	... fish stocks remain healthy and less CO is emitted. Is Mr Wassenberg prepared to grant these credits to the sector, at least because they have achieved that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u22	No. Pulse trawling is not at all more sustainable, at most more efficient. The only advantage for the pulse fishermen is that fuel costs are reduced. But if you look at the bycatch, that's tens percent. There are data on 50%, which is still very high. The pulse cortex is likely to have effects on soil life. We know there are, but we still haven't quantified them. Researchers themselves say: we started the investigation way too late. The pulse trawl has an effect on the soil life and on the reproduction of small organisms. We don't know at all. The pulse kor still leads to soil-moving activities. The pulse trawl can be fished on fishing grounds, where the beam trawl could not have been used before. The fishing area will be increased. So there is absolutely no way to say that this is a more sustainable form of fishing. Once again, the benefits are for the fisheries sector and not for the seabed, for the North Sea or for nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u23	Finally, Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u24	Of course, we can ignore the reports of IMARES, as well as a number of other reports that report positively on the effects of the pulse cortex. But that's a choice and say it. This does not mean that you have to deny that soil life is better off when pulse trawl is applied and that CO2 emissions are reduced when pulse trawl is applied. We can just ignore that, but you shouldn't deny it. Then I wonder: you can quote your own reports and refer them to them, but these are not scientifically validated reports. Please base yourself on those reports from scientific institutes!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u25	I can reassure Mr Bishop: I do not have any reports of my own on which I base myself. I base myself on the same reports as you, only I may read them; I do not know if you read them correctly. For example, if I look at the by-catches, I base myself on the 2013 report of Wageningen University, Wageningen University & Research. It says that the by-catches are at 50%. Later a comparison is made between the pulse trawl and the beam trawl, but the by-catches are no longer expressed in absolute figures. It's just a comparison. If I look at the figures, the figures you have at your disposal, you can read that the by-catch there is 50%. Those are the numbers I'm basing myself on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u26	I believe that the Animal Party and the Christian Union have a different view of the future of fishing. As far as we are concerned, there is a future for our fishermen. I don't think the Party for Animals wants that. What we are facing shoulder-to-shoulder is climate change. If we then see that the ban on pulse fishing will lead to more CO emissions and much more fuel consumption, to 78%, why does the Party for Animals not say: we want to give this a chance, because the fisheries are there? They are not happy with it, but pulse fishing is a valuable technique, especially when it comes to combating climate change.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u27	Let me say that we do not consider the replacement of one industrial fishing technique with another industrial fishing technique to be an improvement. I repeat, that's because the pulse cortex has so many effects that they haven't all been mapped yet. Why haven't they been mapped? Because research has been deployed far too late and because licences, no, have been granted on a large scale, whereas those ships were not used for research at all. The main pulse trawler Rijnsdorp also says: if we had started earlier and put money into it earlier, we might have been much further and we could have said what the effects of the pulse trawl on the soil life are. At first, it was just all those exemptions. All these exemptions were granted just to keep the sector going, not to do research. A mouse hole in the law has just been found to help the sector, not to help the North Sea or to do research.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u28	This is not an answer to my question. There is fishing in the North Sea. The Animal Party has a certain opinion on this. Our opinion is different. I think the Party for the Animals just wants to go back to a boat with a rod. I mean, are we supposed to go fishing like this? Anyway, I'm not getting an answer to the question related to the climate target. If we go fishing with the pulse, we have better results when it comes to CO, much better results. Then there's another question. Indeed, we do not know much about ecosystems. There's still some research to be done on that. That investigation's just going on. Why does the Party for Animals want to delete this? I have seen the interim research results, which are indeed positive. Why does the Party ignore for the Animals who and says that all investigations should be stopped and "Away with the pulse"? The first results are quite promising. I mean, it's just not good governance for a government to say halfway through, you know, stop doing those investigations, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u29	At the moment, the investigation isn't happening. 84 pulsing vessels have been deployed to fish. If I look at the figures, it is true that in 2016 eight of the 84 ships were involved in research. And the most important researcher says that so many research ships are not needed at all. There is really nothing more than getting the sector to fish with a prohibited technique. That's the point. Mrs Dik-Faber asks: what would you do with the environment? Look, they use less fuel, but if you want to help the environment, you better bet on a more plant-based diet. I would very much like to talk to Mrs Dik-Faber about this, because that is the way you can really make a move, not by saying: we are going to replace one industrial fishing technique for another, with all the unknown damage to soil life. As far as we are concerned, that is not the answer. Again: that research on the effects of the pulse trawl on the bottom is fine, but you don't need 84 ships for that. That's what everyone says. This has just been abused to allow pulse fishing that was forbidden.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u30	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u31	I conclude that the Animal Party explicitly states that we must all eat vegetable food and that there is no future for fishing. That's not my conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u32	I want to respond to that. I told Mrs Dik-Faber that if you want to save the environment, you're not gonna make it by replacing the beam trawl with the pulse trawl. Then you'll have to take bigger and different steps. That's what I wanted to report to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u33	Good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u34	Pulse trawling is not the solution to the ecosystem. Come on! First of all, look at the by-catch. It's still huge with the pulse cortex, sometimes 50% or more. The pulse cortex emits currents, causing the fish to startle, cramp and get into the net. Adult cods can break their backs. Sharks and rays are fish that hunt with an electrical system. Their electrical system can be damaged by electric shocks. Exactly how big the consequences are, no one knows. There is still insufficient research on this issue. After years of research, we also know virtually nothing about the effects on soil life, on the reproduction of small organisms, on the impact on the local fish population in the North Sea. And if the Netherlands had really been able to do something about sustainability, we would have protected our seas better. We would have said from the outset: no commercial fishing without prior investigation. So don't come up with the sustainability argument now, if we actually protect only 5% of the North Sea. That beam trawl was supposed to be a wake-up call. The system is bankrupt. Industrial fishing, as I said to Mrs Dik-Faber, has no future. Not then and not now. But the mistakes that successive Cabinets have made knowingly and knowingly are now being presented to the taxpayer. 15 million euros of tax money will stop the Ministry in the further industrialisation of the fisheries sector. The cabinet has played a systematic and high game over the backs of fishermen for many years and also at the expense of nature. This is irresistible and I am therefore considering tabling a motion of censure in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u35	Thank you, Mr. Wassenberg. I now give the floor to Mr Madlener on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. What a total failure. What a waste of Dutch interests and what an embarrassment for the Minister of Fisheries. The Dutch fishing interests have been completely gibberished by this cabinet. You saw this coming from miles away. This cabinet is fully 100% responsible for this outcome. When last year the French President Macron got involved, everyone with a little European experience knew that it would be played hard. Macron just came out of a dinner with Mark Rutte and said to the camera that it was good that the pulse fishing would be banned. On 27 March last year, almost a year ago, in the Committee on Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality, we expanded with the Minister and talked to each other. At that time, I warned quite intensely about the approach taken by the Minister and the government parties. I said this approach would fail, that Mr. Macron could not be changed with a charm offensive. I will read a bit from the Minutes of that sitting to remind my fellow chamber members, who will of course all be very sympathetic to the fishermen. "Isn't it time to take that fist on the table and put it down to the Prime Minister, as many other countries in Europe do? If the Poles, the French or the Hungarians want something, they get what they want, not always with charm but by powerplay." Later it is said: 'I would say: lay it down with the Prime Minister, because my estimate is that it is not going well when I hear Macron like this'. And more: "So I think it takes more than a charm offensive. I think it should be chefsache and Rutte should get involved in this; otherwise it won't work out." At the end of the general consultation, I immediately tabled a motion to call on the Prime Minister, but it was voted off by all parties except the PVV and Forum for Democracy. It will be clear to you: the Minister was warned and the Chamber was warned. By not using the Prime Minister, you are also sending a message to Europe, namely that the Netherlands does not think fishing interests are so important. But not only the government has made the stupid choice not to engage the Prime Minister and not to make this a chefsache. The Minister himself has been making a huge mistake. She has opted for a weak charm offensive and has engaged former Minister Veerman at the request of a number of parties in this Chamber. Then she waited passively. In her letter of last Tuesday, she writes sentences as "reportedly included in the agreement" and "is unknown whether Member States will make use of the possibilities." A little further, she also writes: 'As I mentioned in the previous AO, there are no established texts of the agreement yet available, and that is why I cannot give the fishermen any clarity'. That is after she said last week that there was a transitional period for about half the fishermen. How is that possible? She's a minister herself! How can you wait so passively to see what texts are being produced in Brussels? We sit at the table ourselves and the Minister does nothing. She's waiting passively. How passive can you be? A minister must, of course, be at the top of the negotiations and not wait and see what officials do and agree on her behalf. That's impossible, isn't it? And then you say that you agree with the fishermen, pray with fishermen and shout that fishermen sail high waves and go through wild seas. That's totally unbelievable, isn't it? It is completely gratuitous if you dare say that as a responsible minister, while you stand aside.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u37	I think you're almost done with your speech. I'd wrap it up first. Then you get...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u38	I've got another piece, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u39	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u40	'Cause there's another low in this crappy soap opera. After the charm offensive of Cees Veerman started, about nine months ago, it remained silent. We waited as a Chamber, of course, in suspense to see what Mr. Veerman would do. We didn't hear anything, we didn't hear anything, we didn't hear anything. Now, nine months later, we get a note from the Minister: "Mr. Veerman never had a conversation." He never had a conversation, because there was no one who wanted to talk to him! We'll find out nine months later. The Minister should have informed the Chamber after three months, of course, when Mr. Veerman was completely empty-handed. She should have said: things are going wrong and my charming offensive is not working; this is not going well and I'm going to adjust. But no, none of that. She kept waiting passively. We didn't hear anything as a room and we weren't informed when it went wrong. That's absurd, isn't it, Madam President? It's also a pattern. It is a pattern in the European Union. I have to finish. I should like to be the last to comment on the Prime Minister. In his Churchill lecture two weeks ago in Zurich, his message was: the European Union must become less naive, better defend its own interests and realise that power is not a dirty word. That's what Mr. Rutte said. Anyway, we now know what's going on with the Prime Minister and the Cabinet. Mr Rutte puts Europe first and the Netherlands last, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u41	I hear Mr Madlener, on behalf of the PVV Group, pointing the finger at almost everyone he can name today. There are still four fingers left. They point to you. The question I have is what the PVV has done in all this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u42	I have just told you extensively that I warned you that your cabinet's approach would fail and that it would not work if you sent Mr. Veerman to Prime Minister Macron. That's not gonna work. You put your fingers in your ears and thought: no, we're gonna wait and see. You are a fan of the European Union. You want to transfer all that power to the European Union, not us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u43	Speak through the chairman and not "you." Mr. Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u44	Mr President, I am looking at you. Then I'm gonna try it through the chairman. I hear a lot of words, but few actions by the PVV Group. Mr Madlener simply does not answer my question, which is very simple and very concrete: what has the PVV done in Europe? What has the PVV Group done? Other groups have done their best, including through their party lines. But what did the PVV do?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u45	The PVV has opposed the CDA, against the transfer of all power to Brussels and has stood up for the Dutch interests. You should. You must not cry with the people of Brussels. You must stand up for the Dutch interests. You didn't. With this interruption on me, you are completely abandoning the fishermen and you are totally fooling them. I always hear Mrs Schreijer-Pierik say good lyrics, but the CDA does nothing here. It's your government that sits here, and it fucking stands up for the Dutch interests in Europe. It's a shame you dare stand here by the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u46	In this case, would you just mention the name of Mr Geurts, or the name of the Members of Parliament, and not "you," because otherwise things will go wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u47	I think I hit a very sensitive chord with Mr Madlener. I hear him speak all kinds of rabid language, but I still do not hear him answer the specific question I have asked. What has the PVV Group in Europe done for our fishermen?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u48	You're right, I'm getting really mad about this. I always hear MPs from the CDA and the Christian Union sympathize with fishermen, but in the meantime the cheese is eaten from their bread because their interests are not defended in Europe. That's what happens. And what the PVV always does is tell us in this debate and in previous debates. But you're not listening. You say in the newspaper that the Prime Minister should be called in and that you are so sympathetic to the fishermen, but you are not doing anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u49	I was actually wondering the same thing. The PVV also has MEPs. It is well known that MEPs have played an important role in this dossier. I would like to hear from Mr Madlener how the group in which the PVV is working with others in Europe voted on the pulse trawl.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u50	Well, at least not to announce a ban in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u51	I hope so...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u52	I am curious to see what your group has voted on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u53	The Dutch members certainly have...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u54	No, not the Dutch Members, but your group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u55	Who's asking questions? The point is...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u56	I'm just asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u57	What matters is that the Dutch members of the PVV in Europe have done nothing to do anything for Dutch fishermen. I have not heard anything about this either on previous questions from Mr Geurts. I can only conclude that a vote at the PVV in Europe is actually a lost vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u58	This is too sad for words. D66, the most europhile party in the Netherlands, asks me what we are doing against D66's policy. We shall vote against it. But we are opposition, you are sitting there with me not knowing how many Members are making Dutch pulse fishing difficult and then you ask me what I am doing about it. I am doing the same thing that my fellow European parties say in every debate that you have a bad policy, that you should go home and that you should not transfer our interests to Brussels. 'Cause now we're dealing with the fried pears.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u59	Thank you for your compliment. D66 is indeed a party that recognises the importance of cooperation in Europe. That is also very important. But this dossier was in the European Parliament. Then I wonder what the Dutch PVVs in the European Parliament have done with the beam trawl. You can only shout, but you can also put your hands out of your sleeves every now and then. Also in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u60	I'll repeat it to the full. Of course, my colleagues in Brussels voted against the proposals that your group supports. But, yeah, what else do we have to do? You sit there with all those people making the life of the Netherlands miserable. That is where you are squandering the interests of the Netherlands. We are voting against it, because that is what we are in favour of. We do that here and we do that in Brussels.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u61	Thank you, Mr. Madlener. I now give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last week they walked through the centre of The Hague and were here in the House of Representatives: the fishermen, their wives and their children. They had banners: pulse fish is climate fish. I see some of them sitting in the gallery again today. In the meantime, we know the outcome of the political trialogue: a ban on pulse fishing with a lot of uncertainty about the transition period. This outcome remains, although not unexpectedly, a heavy disappointment and a bitter pill to swallow. A beautiful, sustainable fishing technique is made impossible. Our fishing industry is being hit hard, and it is also a really difficult and uncertain time for fishermen and their families; a tragedy. Mr. Chairman. It is important for the individual fisherman to be clear as soon as possible about the consequences of this ban and the precise transitional period. Will the Minister make an effort to maintain as many permits as possible during the transition period? There is only a final text if both the European Council and the European Parliament have voted on the regulation. The process is not yet complete and the game is not yet played. I am sure the Minister will continue to fight for our fishermen in Europe. Mr. Chairman. The European Commission's proposal of March 2016 allowed pulse trawling as a fishing technique. The European Commission was clearly in favour of this technique. Pulse fishing licences have also always been issued with the agreement of the European Commission. Does the Minister have any explanation for the sharp twist that the European Commission has made? I see an interruption, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u63	Me too. Mr. Madlener.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u64	Mrs Dik says she is sure that the Minister is doing her best, but the Minister does not even know what is coming out of the consultation. How come your own minister doesn't even know what was agreed? Last week we heard that half the fishermen were allowed to continue fishing and now it turns out to be different again. The minister doesn't know. She doesn't know what's being negotiated in Brussels. We're sitting there at the table. How is that possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u65	I am very sure that this minister is fighting for our fishermen in Europe. The fact that confidential reports are not quoted in Parliamentary letters seems to me to be a wise thing to do. If we did, I do not think that would be in the interests of fishermen either. There is still talk and decision-making still taking place. Then the documentation comes out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u66	There has been decision-making. The minister doesn't have the lyrics yet. The Minister does not even know what was decided in Brussels while the Netherlands is sitting at the table. The Minister is coming to the Chamber with the wrong information. The minister waited nine months to hear that Mr. Veerman didn't do anything. And you call that your best shot? That's ridiculous, isn't it? Isn't it amazing that a Dutch minister doesn't know what is happening in Brussels on her own file?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u67	This Minister knows very well what is happening in Brussels and she is on top of it. I see here a party calling from the sidelines that it's all wrong. I see a party that takes no responsibility in Europe and even says: get lost with your Europe. As if it were in the interests of fishermen! It's so easy to call from the sidelines. The PVV doesn't play anything, nothing for our fishermen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u68	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u69	Mr. Chairman. Even if a ban becomes final, the Netherlands must continue to work to convince other European countries of the benefits of the pulse trawl. After all, research is ongoing until 2020 and only then would it be definitively established whether or not pulse fish is sustainable. In this respect, the ban will come in an untimely fashion. What studies are still under way and which fishermen can participate in them? Is it true that in 2020 the European Commission will have to report on the progress of fisheries policy, including on the basis of the ongoing research, so that these investigations are on the table again? Is there therefore a possibility for new Commission proposals? Mr. Chairman. We see the possibility offered by the agreement for scientific practical research as a way of continuing to promote pulse fishing as a sustainable innovation in fisheries. Research at international level can provide more support for other European countries. Is the Minister prepared to investigate whether and how this international research can be developed? Mr. Chairman. There's a lot of competition in sharing the sea. That has become part of a political game. In fact, the agreement states that the Member States can close their waters to the pulse fishermen. It is therefore important that the dialogue between the various countries and between their fishermen should start on how to better take account of each other in order to enable pulse fishing in the future and to prevent other innovations in the Dutch fisheries sector from being made impossible by the same competition. Can the Minister take the lead in this and organise the international talks between the countries and their fisheries sectors, including with a view to the new common fisheries policy? Mr. Chairman. I think it's good to keep fighting for the pulse fishermen. It is difficult to explain that the fishing industry needs to innovate again when this great innovation of pulse fish is being knocked down. It is a bad decision, but we must also look ahead and continue to work towards the future for our fishermen. We therefore welcome the innovation funds released and the fact that they can be used widely, as there are still many challenges for fishing on top of this ban. Our fishermen have already endured a lot of storms. Let us therefore stand shoulder to shoulder to help them overcome these waves as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u70	Thank you very much, Mrs Dik-Faber. I now give the floor to Mrs Bromet, on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u71	Mr. Chairman. What this minister is doing very handsomely, and I admire her for that, is standing next to the people. We saw this in the phosphate rights debate, in which the Minister addressed the farmers present in the debate and put her dilemma to them. And we saw it last week when, on the day that the decision on the future of pulse fishing would fall, she travelled to Urk to pray with the fishermen there. I think that is good, because we politicians are not here for ourselves, but for the people who elected us. But praying isn't enough. Politicians can also be expected to show leadership, to look beyond the delusion of the day, beyond the first needs, beyond the short term. Just in the pulse fish file, it suspended from that. According to the Brussels rules, the Netherlands was entitled to 22 licences for pulse fishing. The pressure on the then Secretary of State Henk Bleker to move Brussels to grant more permits quickly increased from the sector and from the Chamber. Bleker's mission was successful. Under the guise of scientific research, another 20 cutters were granted an exemption in December 2010. Four years later, a secretary of state, Bleker's trick is repeated by Sharon Dijksma: another 42 ships are licensed. They're allowed to pulsate. But the scientific research, the argument that the Netherlands used in Europe, remained out. It was only in 2017, seven years after the first pulse fish, that structural research was finally launched. Mr. Chairman. The pulse fishing file is a textbook example of a failing lobby. Pulse has never been discussed as part of full legislation. The Netherlands has dealt with it as a completely separate issue, so it did not become part of a larger compromise package. By giving more to the Council in parts, particularly the environment, you could then have demanded other things from the European Parliament. Dialogue with the other Member States would also have been needed much earlier. Especially the way in which the Netherlands acquired additional permits put bad blood. Other countries spoke of procedural disgrace and doubted the intentions of the Netherlands. They asked the right questions. Then where's that scientific research? Do we really need 84 permits for that? Suppose pulse fishing is the solution to the sustainability of the fisheries sector................................................................................................................................................................................................. Last week, as a miracle of God, it was decided that scientific research should continue and that there should be no total ban on pulse fishing. This brings us back to where we were in 2010, namely that a few ships are allowed to pulsify with scientific research as a basis. Finally, my questions. Does the Minister recognise that major strategic mistakes have been made by giving far too many fishermen licences, by waiting far too long for scientific research, by not paying any attention to the social consequences for neighbouring countries with much smaller-scale fishing and by ignoring the cultural differences in Europe? Finally, Mr President, these questions. Does the Minister dare to be honest with the fishermen when she speaks to them? Does she dare to say that scientific research will have to show whether pulse fishing has a future, that diplomacy in Europe is crucial, that it is not the fault of the French or of Europe that many fishermen now have to stop pulsing fish, but that it is the mistake of the Netherlands itself that led to this tragedy and that for the time being probably only 5% of the boats are allowed to fish with pulses? Does the Minister dare not follow in the footsteps of her predecessors? I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u72	Thank you, Mrs Bromet. I now give the floor to Mr Moorlag. No? Well? You look so serious. Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u73	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The decision taken in Brussels is terrible for fishermen. The Labour Party was and is in favour of pulse fishing. We are convinced that this technique provides the most certainty on better yields, less natural disturbance and lower energy consumption. There are good arguments for allowing pulse fishing. It is not for nothing that Stichting De Noordzee and Greenpeace gave support in a position paper more than a year ago to the view that pulse fishing should be given a chance through research. Mr. Chairman. Being right, however, is not right. The question now is what went wrong. At the end of 2017, all kinds of yellow and red flags were raised. Then it became apparent that there was a lobby against pulse fishing. My question is: what has the Minister done in concrete terms? Mr Weverling has asked for a factual account. The letter we received contained a brief overview with a timeline, but a real, concrete factual account, in which is visible what the Minister has done precisely in the past year, is missing. It is therefore unclear what the Minister has done. Has she been to the mandatory meetings of the Fisheries Councils alone and has she read the annotations of its officials, or has she done more? Which colleagues did she speak to one-on-one? What has it done in concrete terms to reverse the tide? What has the Prime Minister's role been in this? Did he still act in this? As Mrs Bromet rightly says, you should not deal with matters in isolation, but you should see if you can reach a wider playing field, where different dossiers can be exchanged against each other. To what extent did this happen? Does the Minister wish to express in the reply exactly how she acted in the European arena? Who and where exactly did she talk to? Has the Minister been strong enough to defend Dutch interests? How? Then why do we end up with such a bad result? Have we trusted too much, in my opinion, that also applies to the Chamber on arguments and scientific basis? Politics is not always based on science and rational reasoning. That is also what we saw in the debate on dividend taxation. There was no scientific evidence that this would be good for the economy. We also see this in the debate on the CO levy. All kinds of scientists say that this is the most effective means of reducing CO, but science is not being followed, and a wrong political balance, as I see it, leads to this being put out of hand. Mr. Chairman. European politics is power politics. How did the cabinet, how did this minister operate in that underplay? In football it is so that not always the team with the best players wins and not even if it plays much better for 80 minutes. Then it may be that at the end of the game the tide is known, and that has unfortunately happened here. Finally, my question to the Minister is: how is she going to sweep the shrapnel together, how is she going to offer the fishing perspective and how is she going to pave the way towards a better and sustainable fisheries? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u74	Thank you, Mr Moorlag. I now give the floor to Mr Weverling on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u75	Thank you, Madam President. Ever since I was a spokesperson for fisheries, I've been in many fish auctiones and I've also talked a lot to fishermen. It's a special group of people. Hardworking, sober and focused on innovation. They also make an important contribution to food supply, not only in the Netherlands but worldwide. A group of people to be proud of. The reason we are here today is precisely because fishermen are so innovative. The fisheries sector regularly faces major challenges. Instead of complaining about fishermen, they are trying to find solutions to the challenges ahead. This is also how the pulse technique was created. An innovative method for fishing, the benefits of which are known: more sustainable, cleaner and more efficient. No one can be against this, you'd think. Until the European Parliament voted against this innovative method following a slander campaign in France. Last week I called it a figuratively slap in the face of fishermen. Mr. Chairman. It is precisely because fishermen want to contribute to challenges that we have as a country that we must stand alongside this group and not against it. The outcome of the previous round of trilogues is frustrating for my group, precisely because this sector has built up something that we all have to protect. Mr. Chairman. At the request of CDA and D66, Minister Schouten appointed a special advocate at the beginning of last year to represent the interests of the pulse fishermen. My question to the Minister is: where did it go wrong? What did the advocate do and who did he talk to? The answers to my written questions are quite unsatisfactory. The Minister replied that Mr Veerman was unable to fulfil his intended role as mediator. Can the Minister indicate much more clearly what efforts have been made, who and when? I also expect more information than the four rules when answering the written questions on this subject. In addition, we have had to learn from the newspaper that Mr Veerman had to stop his attempt. Mr. Chairman. As far as the VVD is concerned, our fishermen must be protected and supported. As far as we are concerned, the decision on pulse fishing is incomprehensible. In this way, we move from innovation to innovation, and that should not be the intention. It is now up to the Minister to help our fishermen through this difficult period as best they can. The cabinet promised EUR 15 million last week. Can the Minister first of all promise that this money will be distributed after consultation with the sector itself? In addition, this is money for innovation within the sector. Is the Minister aware that conversion of cutters with pulse harness to the beam trawl costs money and is this EUR 15 million applicable? I hope not. Is the Minister prepared to consider how often family businesses in the fisheries sector can be helped to get their finances in order? What possibilities does the Minister see for this? Mr. Chairman. Then there is the interpretation of the agreement as it stands. Apparently, there is still a lot of uncertainty about that. Is the Minister able to implement a transitional arrangement for fishermen who have to stop almost immediately? Then there's the deal on the 12 mile zone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u76	Before you continue, Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u77	Could Mr Weverling explain to me how to have an internal market without dealing sooner or later with an organisation like the European Union now, which is going to get involved in this sort of thing?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u78	We have a large internal market in Europe with 500 million consumers. And that's fantastic, because a fish caught today could be on the board today or tomorrow in Marseilles. So that's fantastic.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u79	That's not the question. Anyone can buy Norwegian salmon in the supermarket and Norway and is not in the EU, so the fact that we can buy and sell products abroad is completely separate from the internal market. The internal market is a system of harmonisation of products and the way in which products may be grown or caught. The fact that the EU is interfering with the way we are allowed to fish is an inherent part of the internal market, of the harmonisation rules that create all those big towers in Brussels all day long. That has nothing to do with trading. We all have an iPhone. That iPhone was developed in California and produced in China, and both countries are not in the EU. So the fact that we're dealing with the rest of the world has nothing to do with the EU. The EU is about product harmonisation and how we can catch them, for example, as in the case of fish. It is impossible to have an internal market to deal with such rules sooner or later. So you're crying crocodile tears. You're standing right here in front of the stage. You act as if you are showing solidarity with fishermen and other groups who are equally affected by the consequences of that internal market, but you are apparently simply in favour of a Brussels that is allowed to decide this kind of thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u80	We are in favour of an EU that does indeed ensure a good internal market, which allows you to trade well and thus provide a lot of products that arrive at the port of Rotterdam today and can just be on the board with someone in France or Italy the next day. We are talking about technical measures; this is something other than the internal market in trade which Mr Baudet is talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u81	That's incorrect.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u82	Finally, Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u83	What Mr Weverling says is wrong. The whole point of the internal market is that it is not about free trade but about product harmonisation. That is what the EU is: a system of product harmonisation. That means you get rules about how to fish, how to slaughter, what kind of animals you can keep in what kind of stables, how to process land, what phosphate rights you have, that kind of thing. That is what the EU is. That has nothing to do with free trade. You must stop spreading those lies. This is what the EU is: rules on how to fish. And if you do not want those rules, then you must accept the consequence, that you must be against the internal market.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u84	We accept the EU's rules in the area of the internal market. Indeed, it provides a great deal of prosperity. We have an internal market of 500 million consumers. And yes, there are mutual agreements. Those 500 million consumers can enjoy delicious Dutch tomatoes, for example, but also fish caught here and eventually returned to another European plate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u85	I'd like to build on this. For Mr Weverling of the VVD says he is in favour of that single market and also pro-European Union. The Prime Minister belongs to the same party as Mr Weverling. We see Mr Rutte constantly saying: 'Europe must become stronger. Europe first." That's actually what he keeps saying. But the Netherlands always comes to the last place. And that's why we're the biggest net contributor now. Now we're not allowed to fish, we're driving around in German shuffle diesels, France is breaking the rules. The Netherlands is always the best boy in the class. Isn't that what you're annoying about? Don't you think: will my party really do something about it and stand up for the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u86	Mr. Madlener, or Madam President, I am proud to be here on behalf of the VVD. Mr Madlener, on behalf of the PVV, is not in favour of that EU. However, we are in favour of the EU. The Netherlands is a country with 17 million inhabitants, with a huge trade history. We can do business worldwide. We can do business in Europe, because we are actually a kind of boxer who fights above his weight. We're doing great. We have a fantastic ingenuity and we always know, time and time again, to be innovative. And yes, our good products can also be found worldwide. Certainly in Europe, this benefits everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u87	Even before the European Union, when the EEC was there, we could of course trade with the whole world, so that is not such a huge difference in itself. But what is happening now is that the Netherlands is the largest net contributor, while the purchasing power of the Dutch is not the highest in Europe. We're just a midget, but we pay the most. Your Prime Minister and your party always say: Europe is so important. But when will you stand up for Dutch interests? It cannot be that we pay the most to Europe, but that Europe is constantly harassing us. Now it happens again with fishing, but we also see it in the manure dossier. We always have the disadvantages of Europe and we never have the fist on the table. Isn't it time for the Netherlands to stand up for itself?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u88	The Netherlands is indeed defending itself. The Netherlands is a small country that is doing very well, worldwide and also in Europe. I think we should be proud of what we have with each other. That's what we need to protect with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u89	Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u90	I'm heading for a roundup. I would like to say a few words about the agreements around the 12 mile zone. Apparently, it has been negotiated that countries can decide for themselves whether pulse fishing is permitted within their 12 mile zone. This could mean, in practice, that the deadline of 1 July 2021 is only a symbolic end date? As soon as this agreement is finalized, countries may therefore decide to ban pulse fishing on their seas immediately. Isn't that supposed to mean that pulse fishing is more dead than alive? The VVD Group believes that we must do everything we can to support future innovations and ensure that we do not move from innovation to innovation. Can the Minister promise that, if the research leads to it, she will be calling for a new legalisation of pulse fishing? That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u91	I would like to hear from Mr Weverling how he looks at the role of the Dutch government. Because fishing with pulse, with electricity, was always a forbidden technique. It still is. It's just been said that you can get an exemption if they're research ships. This is only the case with a fixed, small number of ships, with 5%. In 2010 it was said by the then Secretary of State, Bleker, that we are going to increase it to 42. The European Commission has agreed to this, for absolutely unclear reasons, because all these agreements remain secret. But you could have known that we were playing with fire, because we already knew at that time that the European Parliament was not very enthusiastic. How does Mr Weverling see the role of the Dutch Government, which at some point has put the interests of fishermen at risk by making agreements that could not be done?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u92	I too welcome the timeline provided by the Minister. The timeline clearly indicates that the House of Representatives also very much wanted to support the fishing industry and to support the pulse technology. The Technical Measures Regulation has already been written by the European Commission in 2014. Also in 2016 you can read that full authorisation of pulse fishing is included. So this also shows clearly that the EU is enthusiastic about the Dutch innovations in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u93	That wasn't my question. It is clear that most of the parties in this Chamber were in favour of smiling. But what we actually said to those fishermen is: go fishing with a forbidden technique; we'll take care of it. Well, we didn't take care of it at all. The number of ships has been pushed up from 42 to 84, but it remained a forbidden technique. It was only for research, but that investigation didn't take place. And I still haven't heard what Mr Weverling thinks about the fact that those ships have actually been abused, they weren't research vessels, they were just commercial fishing vessels, and it was used as a mouse hole to escape that law. How does Mr Weverling feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u94	I note that the permits have been issued by the Dutch Government and that the technical measures, as defined by the EU in the regulation, include authorisation of pulse fishing. I must honestly say that the blasphemy campaign of BLOOM has, of course, thrown a lot of soot into the food. We don't like campaigns like that. Let me make a point there. I can say a little more about it, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u95	No, I don't think that's necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u96	... Mr. Wassenberg flies into the ceiling.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u97	You can't say that either, but okay. Thank you, Mr. Weverling. I now give the floor to Mr Futselaar on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. One of my first contributions to this Chamber was in May 2017 in the preparation of the Agriculture and Fisheries Council and was mainly about pulse fishing. For me, that was a whole new file. I asked Demissionary Secretary of State Van Dam somewhat bewildered how it was possible that a scientific pilot for pulse fishing started in 2014 and comprised 80 trawlers, and how it was possible that serious scientific research was only launched in 2016. I said that I could imagine that other countries were looking at the Netherlands in these circumstances with some doubt. The Secretary of State said: well, we only have a few research questions to answer, and with the positive results, the Commission and the Member States will certainly be overwhelmed. Two years later, we note that the Netherlands may have suffered the biggest diplomatic defeat in the European Union since, in 1981, half the European diplomatic and journalistic corps suffered food poisoning at a Euro summit in Maastricht, I thought by a potato salad. Mr. Chairman. In this context, it is tempting to point to activist environmental organisations or the French, always a tempting bogeyman in Europe. But the reality is that the Netherlands does not really have any friends in this dossier. It's not just the French, it's the Danes and it's the British. Even the Germans have something like: solve it yourself, the Netherlands. It is not for nothing that almost two thirds of the European Parliament voted against pulse fishing, and not all of them voted against. There are groups in this Chamber who think that the difference would have been made if Prime Minister Rutte had played a greater role in the lobby. I do not think that, also because this is not the only dossier where the Netherlands has fought for itself a derogation in recent years and then went over it. I also refer here to the phosphate dossier. It's gonna end sometime. The blame for this situation lies with two parties. The first: Dutch governments, who enthusiastically lobbied in 2011 and 2015 for increasing the number of permits, based on dubious grounds of scientific research that has been deployed in practice far too late. The second, and this must also be said, is that the European Commission, which has allowed this situation, may have initially encouraged it and at the very least seemed to have tolerated it at the end. The loss of face is not only for the Netherlands, but certainly for the European Commission. What makes this situation so miserable is that the scientific research we have seems to confirm that the pulse method is better for nature and soil than the old beam trawl method. Probably, because there are still open questions. But still, if both fishermen and fish seem to decline in a decision, then we have to ask ourselves what went wrong. That's where we stand. We still do not have any clarity about the number of permits that ultimately remain, but it seems to be getting worse every day. At first, some, perhaps some optimistic MEPs talked about 40 permits until 2021. That soon turned out to be twenty and yesterday there were reports of perhaps only seven. How many permits are left, at least there will be far less than investments have been made in the pulse on different ships. The question is what we can do to limit the damage. I would like to ask the Minister, for example, to what extent there is the possibility for existing licences, which remain in place until 2021, to be used by several fishermen, for example by sharing the period in which they fish: one in summer, the other in winter. This way you can build a form of solidarity. A licence holder will have to cooperate in this, so I understand that this is quite complicated, but I can imagine that the Minister will at least coordinate what is possible. There are already Dutch vessels fishing for pulses under the flag of other Member States. Are there any other options here? The 5% limit applies, as far as I understand it, at least until 2021 in all those Member States. Can our fishermen find room here, at least until 2021? Finally, I would like to know whether the Chamber will receive a proposal in advance on how the 15 million announced by the Minister will be spent. Are we going to be informed about this before any regulation comes into force? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u99	Thank you, Mr. Fuzzler. I now give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u100	Mr. Chairman. As much as we regret the United Kingdom's decision to take the Brexit route, I have to say that I have become increasingly aware of this choice over the past few weeks and months. I'm referring to the soap opera around the ban on the pulse cortex. The proposed ban on pulse trawling is contrary to higher EU regulations. I'll make that clear. The EU Treaty stipulates that the Union must work to protect the environment. The General Fisheries Regulation makes this concrete: less unwanted by-catches and positive environmental impacts. And what does the pulse cortex yield? Exactly: much less ground rotation, much less by-catches, much less fuel consumption and CO emissions. The EU Treaty provides that the Union shall promote scientific and technical progress. The pulsing ban throws the fishing back in time. The EU Treaty provides for the Union to ensure consistency between policies. That connection is missing. With the landing obligation, unwanted by-catches have to be reduced and the pulse trawl ban increases the unwanted by-catches. The Fisheries Regulation requires decision-making on the basis of the best available scientific advice. The pulse kor is surrounded by positive advice from Wageningen Marine Research, of ICES, of the North Sea Advisory Council. Hearing emotion and lying doesn't fit in with this. In short, the ban on pulsing is contrary to European agreements, and our progressive fishermen are the victims. I ask the cabinet to send the Prime Minister to Brussels to fight the survival of this primeval Dutch industry with all the possibilities he has in him. And I ask the cabinet to go to the European Court if the decision is taken because the ban is contrary to other, higher EU agreements. Is the Minister prepared to follow these two lines? I would also like to present a draft letter to colleagues with the proposal to send that letter to Commissioner Vella on behalf of the Chamber. In that letter, we summarized what several colleagues have said about objections to the ban on pulsing. Mr President, perhaps I could hand you this letter with the request to distribute it to colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u101	I assume there is no objection to this document being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u102	I am curious to see what mandate Mr Bishop Rutte is sending to Brussels. Is that the order to look for more space than there seems to be now, because the lyrics say that there is 5% room? Is Mr Bishop prepared to look beyond his own right for once? I hear him talking about lawsuits, while 27 countries are in favour of the agreement that is now in place, and one country against, and that one country is the Netherlands. Well, that doesn't make any sense, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u103	What kind of assignment does the Prime Minister get? I'll come back to the numbers in a moment, because there's a lot of noise on that. Colleagues have already referred to this. The Prime Minister's mission would be to maintain as many ships as possible the right to fish with the pulse trawl. That must be achieved and guaranteed. Beyond your own equal? One of my fellow Members has just said that being right is not the same as being right. We all know that if you don't know that, you must have closed your eyes to how much this decision has been made on the basis of emotion and false representations and disinformation. Now that the decision is there, those involved admit it. It is not for nothing that Mr Geurts quoted The Financial Daily. In it it is described openly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u104	I think it is an understatement of 27 European countries when you say that they have come to this position through misinformation. I also consider the strategy of the SGP to be very dangerous in this regard. There's an opening now. Scientific research can continue. It may also fall the other way, namely that there will be a total ban and that it will be over and out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u105	Sure, the only question is whether you should accept that as the Netherlands. You may not be able to do otherwise at some point, and the sector will undoubtedly return to new innovations. The fact that the European Commission indicated in 2016 that the pulse trawl was an acceptable method of capture and that the change came after that, doesn't it say enough? This means that there is no scientific basis for this kind of thing. That is why we are calling for it to be referred to the European Court of Justice. This is a breach of European legislation itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u106	I agree with the plea to have it checked by the European Court of Justice. Any decision may be subject to legal review. What I'm not used to from the SGP is opportunism. I am listening in Mr Bishop's contribution to a considerable amount of opportunism. He states that he understands Brexit when he sees this decision-making. Will Mr Bishop say that the Netherlands would be better off without access to European fishing waters and that we can only fish in our own waters? If you participate in a partnership, isn't that for better and for worse?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u107	I am sorry that Mr Moorlag is calling us opportunism. We have consistently advocated the good right of pulse trawling. That has nothing to do with opportunism, but it has to do with a sense of justice. You can see that it is a method that contributes to achieving the objectives: less environmental pollution, less by-catch, and you name it all. The scientific studies also point to this. If it is forbidden, then it is wrong. It's forbidden on the basis of emotion, of feelings. I didn't say that... No, let me rephrase the Brexit. I said: although we deeply regret the choice of the United Kingdom to take the Brexit route, I have come to understand it more. This kind of unsubstantiated decision-making leads to an ever-critical attitude towards the EU. In the long term, the EU has a huge cut in this respect, only they do not see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u108	Mr Bishop only fishes my taste in turbid water when he starts to understand the Brexit. It would be very damaging to the fishing industry. Then there's opportunism. The fact that we are going to send a letter to the European Commission as a parliament is a kind of state-law novel. I'm not used to that from the SGP either. Doesn't Mr Bishop trust the government?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u109	There is no question of trust in the government. It is a question of sending out a clear signal as a parliament. We would like to point out to Parliament in the direction of the European Commission that we consider this an unacceptable way of decision-making and that we do not accept the outcome. Once again, I regret that Mr Moorlag is again using the word 'opportunism'. I do not know exactly what cargo is given to it within the Labour Party, but within the SGP the accusation of opportunism is grievanced. You mean that also grieving, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u110	Mr. Moorlag, what do you mean by that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u111	I don't mean grieve, Mr. Chairman. I would just like to say that Mr Bishop's contribution relates to a number of aspects, and I think I can also mention that. The Labour Party makes a different choice. We choose to respect the executive power of the government. So sending out a signal...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u112	You're free to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u113	...you should do to my liking through the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u114	If, as a legislative authority, you find that decision-making is inappropriate, is taking place on inappropriate grounds, then is it absolutely legitimate to send a message to that effect? I do not see at all what is opportunistic about this. This is just using all the instruments you have in your briefcase.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u115	What is not clear to me about Mr Bishop's contribution is whether he thinks that the European Union, although it is quite right to interfere with our fisheries, has made a wrong decision in this case, either Option A or that the European Union should not interfere at all with our rules on fishing. Which one is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u116	There is a third option: you could also reform the EU in such a way that only countries concerned are involved in decision-making on certain dossiers and that the Danube countries that have no interest in North Sea fishing have no control over this either. I'm just mentioning something. That is the third option, and that is the option we advocate: a reformed EU, which gives you a much more realistic decision-making process.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u117	So in this case, Macron's voice would be even heavier.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u118	Within this dossier, France will indeed have its vote, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u119	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u120	So you're not helping the fishermen at all. I'd like to show you that. You are in the weather and so on, a letter is being written and everything is being written, but if it is really about how power is currently regulated within the EU, then you do not just want to maintain it, you even want to weaken the relative power of the Netherlands by excluding the countries of Eastern Europe and Central Europe from this decision-making and saying that we are doing so together with France. That is precisely the driving force behind this ban.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u121	Unfortunately, I do not think that the fact that the countries of Eastern Europe were allowed to vote in favour of the Netherlands has worked for the benefit of the Netherlands. That argument is therefore not valid. I disagree with Mr Baudet that it is an illusion to think that you can do without a European context when it comes to a substantial number of dossiers. I call it fishing or...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u122	Then I'm going to see Mr Geurts. Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u123	I listened to Mr Bishop of the SGP Group. He sent a draft letter to the MPs through you. I tried to read it fast. I am very sympathetic to that, let me start with that. There is, however, a comma: I am curious to see how the Minister will look at it when the Minister responds by saying that it is not helping her in the lobby in Europe. How does Mr Bishop react?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u124	We would like to await the Minister's response. That is why I have publicly included the announcement of this letter in my contribution. The Minister's reflection is very much appreciated. In addition, it remains that as a Chamber you also have a separate responsibility. So, on the basis of what is coming from the Minister plus a consideration of what is our own responsibility, we could take steps. But from there...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u125	Mr. Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u126	...that the draft letter has already been distributed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u127	Thanks for the answer. Once again, the CDA Group is very sympathetic to the content of the letter and the possibility of doing so. However, I do not want to allow us to send such a letter to the European Commission, because we believe it to be our responsibility, and then it turns out that it is counterproductive for the purpose to be achieved. I hope that the Minister will go into the content of the letter in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u128	Good. That's what the Minister's gonna do, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u129	I too would like to await the Minister's opinion on the letter. Is Mr Bishop not afraid that the letter is counterproductive? The European Commission has actually got a bit of a twist from the European Parliament, because it has overruled the technical regulation. What can this letter do to an individual Commissioner?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u130	In the end, the European Commission must take a position on this, as must the European Council. But that letter is not the only line I would like to point out. In addition, as far as I am concerned, the course to the European Court is absolutely a real option. And yes, you run certain risks; I agree with the colleagues. However, I do insist that the message from the Chamber should be sent to the Commission unequivocally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u131	Yes, you made that clear. I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u132	Mr. Chairman. At the end of the trilogue, it seemed clear: half of the pulse trawlers may pass until 2021 and the other half must stop immediately. But after reading the amended proposal, I have some questions. I'm just trying to peel this off. 22 authorisations were granted on the basis of the current 5% exemption in the Technical Measures Regulation. I note from the amended proposal that this exemption expires by mid 2021. My question is, is that correct? Twenty research exemptions were granted on the basis of the Technical Measures Regulation. I note from the amended proposal that this option remains in place, but that more than six derogations require permission from Brussels. Is it the commitment to allow these twenty fishermen to continue for the time being? 42 exemptions have been granted on the basis of the Fisheries Regulation for the landing survey. They're gonna end this year. These fishermen should stop. But is it true that such exemptions are in themselves separate from the technical measures regulation? Does this option remain open in theory? No new licences should be issued in the phasing-out period until 2021. Is it true that this does not apply to research exemptions? I come to a conclusion, Mr President. The Minister wrote that the agreement provided for a clause to review the prohibition based on results of internationally validated research.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u133	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u134	I would like an explanation from the Minister, because I do not see it so soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u135	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u136	Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u137	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. I now give the floor to Mr De Groot on behalf of D66. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u138	Thank you, Mr President. It is a black day, not only for fishermen but also for the North Sea and nature in the North Sea. We must not forget that the technical regulation we are discussing today is intended to protect the marine ecosystem. In that respect, the pulse cortex was a step forward compared to the old iron beam cortex. In that respect, we are in a situation with losers only. How much more can we do? Can we blame Europe, as a number of parties here think D66 is doing too easily? Of course it is true that the previous Commissioner, Damanaki, was much more positive than the current Commissioner, Vella. But we are also here to learn lessons and to look back on our own role. The fraction of D66 signals a great creativity in the Dutch government. Have we had sufficient attention to other aspects? In 2015, the Wageningen University found that you need to look not only at the technical aspects of pulse fishing but also at the social aspects. What's done with that? In 2014, Belgian fishermen already hoist the black flag. This must also reflect on the resistance that exists in Europe. What's done with that? It was not until 2016 that the investigation was initiated on the basis of which the exemptions were granted. Why did this happen so late? Mr. Chairman. The key question may be painful, but it is: why is the Netherlands alone in this dossier? I'd like a reflection from the Minister on this. Another question to the Minister is whether she sees another possibility, a hole or a mesh to do something for the pulse fishermen, so that this innovative step towards a more sustainable fisheries remains. Next question. Can the Minister clarify exactly what was decided in Brussels? There are several newspaper reports about it. The first reports were about keeping 42 permits for the time being, but it seems to be going down fast. Maybe we're only talking about six or seven more permits. Finally. Is there any possibility of doing something in the Netherlands' own waters, in its own 12 mile zone, to see if we can further develop that technique? Again, it's a black day. We can now draw lessons, think, consider why the Netherlands is alone in this dossier and see if there is anything we can do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u139	Thank you, Mr. De Groot. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u140	Madam President. Two issues are under discussion today: firstly, the weak knees of the Dutch government in the negotiations in Brussels. A weak charm offensive led by former CDA Minister Cees Veerman was without chance in advance. And there was unwillingness of the Prime Minister to make this a chefsache and to put the fists on the table to stand up for the Dutch fishermen. The Netherlands is the largest net contributor to the European Union. Minister Schouten should have said no in Brussels and: we do not cooperate; if you pay us, we do not pay. That's powerplay, that's how the French negotiate. Our minister, on the other hand, arranged a transitional period for our fishermen. In other words, after a year they lose their license. 84 fishermen are now the victims of this weak action by the Minister. And she had promised to protect them, hundreds of people, families, families, investments. These fishermen have invested tons, sometimes millions in new, innovative ships, which they will no longer be allowed to use in a year's time. What should happen to these people now? There's gonna be a dorky tissue for the 15 million-dollar bleeding, not nearly enough to compensate for the real damage. This is the umpteenth time that we let ourselves eat the cheese of bread, that Dutch politicians let the Dutch interests run because of laxity and who knows, this must be said: personal career ambitions in Brussels. Macron had to be pawned by Rutte, because without French support no job. But there's something deeper going on. I really want to talk about that today. This whole debate, the fact that the European Union can prohibit such a thing, is a logical, necessary, inevitable and uncontested consequence of the internal market. The internal market is not a kind of market place where everyone can sell their stuff nicely, but a bureaucratic body of rules on product harmonisation, which forces the EU on our continent. Infinite lists, tens of thousands of pages of product specifications: that is what the internal market produces, for example, about how fish can be caught, how many phosphate cows can produce, how much power a vacuum cleaner can use, how crooked a banana can be, and so on. It's gotta be the same everywhere. That is the internal market. So it has nothing to do with free trade. We eat fish from Norway every day. There is even a special sea transport service under construction to get Icelandic fish to Zeeland as soon as possible. Norway and Iceland are not in the EU. There is trade, plenty of trade, between countries, whether or not they are in the EU. Mr. Chairman. This is absurd, isn't it? Isn't that what this house should think? Surely it is absurd that the Netherlands no longer has self-determination, apparently, about policy choices such as those that are now under discussion? As a sovereign country, we must be able to decide for ourselves how we get our fish out of our waters. However, the Netherlands is a member of the EU, including the common fisheries policy, part of the internal market, and cannot therefore decide. We will always draw the short straw as a small country, inevitable. Even if a way out is perhaps found in this one sub-region, the main line is that the small countries pay and dictate the big countries. That insight needs to sink in.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u141	I have a very brief and specific question for Mr Baudet. Is Mr Baudet for or against the next?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u142	For.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u143	Thank you for that clear answer. I was looking back at footage from last Sunday and then the list leader of Forum for the First Chamber wasn't so clear about it. He doubted it. Anyway, then Forum in the Lower House made a clear statement about it. Does Mr Baudet also realise that the Netherlands is a trading country, which is going to be severely affected by the next? Does Mr Baudet also realise that, in particular, our fishermen are facing a great tragedy if there is to be a nexit, because the Netherlands or the fishermen will then have to conclude separate agreements with all the European Member States in order to be able to fish there? Or does Mr Baudet ignore that conveniently?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u144	No, what you're saying isn't true. You don't know how international trade works. You think you'll all have to make treaties. There is already a global network, that is the World Trade Organisation. That is the basis on which action is currently being taken throughout the world. Fishing is just a part of that. That is why we can find Norwegian salmon in the supermarkets. That's why fish from Iceland find so eager deduction in the Netherlands. As a result, I mentioned earlier in this debate that we all have an iPhone that is made in China and designed in America. Those are all countries with which we trade. There are also a lot of countries outside the European Union in Europe, and I have already mentioned Switzerland, Norway and Iceland, as well as countries outside Europe that are extremely prosperous and tradeable. So you need to stop talking crap about "Oh, you can't trade anymore!'. Of course, you have to leave the EU if you want to trade a lot, because because of all those product specifications...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u145	Mr. Geurts...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u146	... the European Union deprives us of the opportunity to offer many things on our markets.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u147	Mr. Baudet. A short question, but also a short answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u148	I'll be very brief. Mr Baudet contradicts himself. On the one hand, he talks about self-determination in his contribution, and on the other hand he says that we have trade agreements and that everything continues as it was. Bullshit, Mr. Baudet, bullshit. Acknowledge that!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u149	No, you really don't understand. You have two ways in which you can trade internationally. One is through recognition rules, the other is through harmonisation rules. If you regulate trade through recognition rules, you say that the products allowed in country A are also allowed on the markets in country B because countries A and B trust each other. That is how we should have dealt with trade at European level. That didn't happen. Instead, a second option has been chosen, namely through harmonisation. Then you say: all products that can be offered in country A and country B must comply with... And then you're gonna set criteria.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u150	Good. Clear, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u151	No, no... this is very important. Hardly anyone in the Netherlands understands this. It's really important that I explain.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u152	Well, everybody's gonna sit down for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u153	Wait a minute, because I'm halfway through the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u154	Yes, I'll give you the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u155	This has been the traditional opposition between the United Kingdom and France in the way in which the European Union should be set up. The French have won. The French bureaucracy has taken over Brussels. These have all been taken over by the committees and hundreds of pages of product specifications are now being produced every day.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u156	Good. Who didn't understand?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u157	That is the EU's problem. The World Trade Organisation, on the other hand, operates on the basis of recognition rules. So that's a great trading system.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u158	Yeah, but we really have this collision every time. It's really not about anything, because...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u159	So this is about something. This is about the essence. This is what they do not understand and that is why they are for the EU.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u160	I'm gonna go check everyone out. Who didn't understand?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u161	Well, neither do you. Tell me the truth.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u162	Mr De Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u163	Mr President, you are asking a question. I did not understand it, because precisely the internal market is based on mutual recognition after the Cassis de Dijon judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u164	Yes, the Cassis the Dijon arrest did indeed...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u165	No, Mr. Baudet. I'm really gonna...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u166	But this is a relevant...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u167	Yes, but Mr De Groot hasn't even finished talking. He wanted to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u168	I have a question for the fisheries spokesperson of the Forum for Democracy. The electoral programme states that the common fisheries policy must be abolished as soon as possible, in order to ensure fish stocks and the cleanliness of the sea. How does the fisheries spokesperson of the Forum see this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u169	Firstly, the Cassis de Dijon judgment is indeed a positive exception... Excuse me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u170	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u171	That's the rule, not the exception.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u172	Not if you look at the EU's practice. In theory, it is. That would be wonderful. The practice is that the EU deals with infinitely many product specifications, not just mutual recognition and that's it. As far as stocks are concerned, the common fisheries policy is a threat to the good handling of fish, and so on. That is because all of them contain quotas which often do not correspond to the fish reality in the waters of the countries to which they relate. There are many examples of this, such as sardines in Portugal, and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u173	Yeah, gosh. Fantastic, but we have international waters. What would be more interesting than to agree on the distribution of fish stocks in those international waters? That's exactly what you're doing to make sure you have enough fish left for future generations. Let that be the background to the fisheries policy established in 1984. It is actually a good example of how we work together in Europe. Perhaps the representative of the Forum could look into this again. If there's one thing you need to take care of, it's this kind of cross-border business.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u174	No. That argument would go on if you did this for the whole world. Since that is not the case, the whole argument will lapse. Look at Iceland, for example. Iceland has privatised some of the waters. This is a much more intelligent way of preventing predatory or predatory fishing. There is another point: fishermen are incredibly capable of seeing their own interests in the long term. No one has any interest in emptying the seas.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u175	Good. Mr. De Groot, calm down. You've always been so calm, but this isn't going well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u176	Yeah, but that's a lot of bullshit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u177	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u178	Perhaps the fisheries spokesperson of the Forum could reconsider whether the European Union might have concluded treaties with both Norway and Iceland to divide stocks according to the same system of the European fisheries policy. That's what we agreed on and which also works nicely.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u179	Iceland recently terminated those treaties.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u180	It's fine to question the internal market, but we're a little out of line with it. I was a little surprised at the example of Norwegian salmon. I believe that Norway was indeed part of the internal market because of the European economic area. Does Mr Baudet agree with me that the example of Norwegian salmon is therefore a bit strange in this context?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u181	Yes, it is true that Norway is part of the economic area. This means that you do have access to the European market, but are not subject to the rules. So that's a much better model.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u182	That is, in fact, really wrong. To use Mr Baudet's example: any agreement we make on vacuum cleaners, any agreement we make on the curvature of bananas.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u183	That's a familiar myth.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u184	I like to be eurocritical. Really. But please, let's stick to the facts a little bit. I thought Mr Baudet had been promoted on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u185	Let us not involve these promotions in this debate, because then things will get completely out of hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u186	It is a well-known myth that Norway takes over all European regulations without hesitation. That's what we've been doing for the last few years. It turns out to be about 11%. Norway is taking over 11%.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u187	It concerns the regulation of the internal market and all products.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u188	Yes. So it turns out that's not so bad. This has been the subject of qualitative research. I can send that to you if you like.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u189	Thank you, Mr. Baudet. You have 13 seconds left.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u190	These are, of course, the general points on the European internal market. We have seen that there has been far too weak negotiations. We want the Minister now to make a firm commitment to our fishermen to make every effort to reverse the vote in the European Parliament in March and to allow our pulse fishermen to continue. We will table a motion in the second term which states that, if it is found that this has not been done and that pulse fishing is banned, it must leave. There must be a sanction. There must be a very clear obligation to achieve results.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u191	I am listening in Mr Baudet's contribution to the frustration that I sometimes find with ornithologists, namely that you know everything about birds, but cannot fly themselves. At the heart of Mr Baudet's speech is that the European Union is harmful to entrepreneurs, farmers and fishermen. How, then, does he explain that there are not weekly entrepreneurs, farmers and fishermen here demonstrating for a nexit?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u192	I think a lot of people have been scared, because so much wrong information about the EU is being spread in the media, as well as in universities. I think that people really think, wrongly, that the European Union is somehow needed to act. That is clearly not the case. This is part of a process that we are entering into, with a gradual change of opinion on it. That's gonna move over. People will see that the European Union is a barrier rather than a tool.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u193	So, if I understand correctly, the Dutch government has frightened entrepreneurs, farmers and fishermen of the European Union, which means that they are no longer able to see their own business interests that would benefit from a nexit. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u194	It's not just the Dutch government that has scared people. I think there is a general opinion climate that is extremely pro-EU. In addition, there is just a lot of lack of knowledge about how international trade actually works. Customs is an interesting example. It is believed that if you do not have a free movement of goods, everything must be checked at the border. That's just bullshit. The port of Rotterdam, where a lot of international non-EU freight arrives, works with pre-clearance in the countries from which those products depart. Only a very small percentage of the boxes is actually opened. The rest just goes straight ahead. There are many ways in which international trade can be shaped, which is also happening a long time ago. I really think that's what's wrong with that. It is good that we are going to talk about this in the coming period, because we are seeing more and more of the EU's problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u195	It is very good to talk about this, but I hope that fishermen will not have dropped out of this type of interruption in the meantime.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u196	I have one more question for Mr Baudet. I've been trying to listen to what he's saying. Did Mr Baudet say that my summary is that farmers, gardeners and fishermen are too stupid to think for themselves?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u197	No, I didn't say that at all. I'm not saying anything personal about any group of people. I can only see that there is a general opinion environment in the Netherlands, where a lot of people have been frightened by the consequences of not being in the internal market, combined with a lack of knowledge, including among journalists and universities, about what the internal market is and how international trade actually works. The reason I say this and why I think I can win a lot of votes is that I have a huge confidence in independent thinking in the Netherlands. A lot of people who hear this story will think, "He's right."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u198	These words will never convince me to vote for your party. You simply confirm that you think there are whole groups in society, in this case entrepreneurs who trade a lot with abroad, who would really be better off with a nexit. You indicate that they are unable to think independently, because there is such an opinion culture. That's bullshit, isn't it, Mr. Baudet?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u199	You may respond to that remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u200	Why is that bullshit? There are many subjects on which we as a society come to different insights over the years. I can imagine that we grew up 30, 40 years ago with the idea that everything that comes from Europe is good, and that we are now gradually becoming more and more businesslike in that discussion. There are also global developments. The European Union is, of course, a customs union. This means that a large protectionist circle has been established around the EU Member States. That may be good if those Member States themselves have a very large share of world trade, but if countries grow outside, such as China, Brazil and so on, then you want to trade with it. We as a trading nation must be where consumers are...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u201	Thank you, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u202	... and those consumers are in India, in China, in Brazil. That's where we have to trade. This prevents the EU from doing so because the EU is a protectionist system. That's what's developing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u203	Thank you, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u204	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u205	That also brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-21-tweedekamer-4.u206	I shall suspend the sitting until 1 p.m. Then we'll vote first. Then comes the order of business, and then we continue the debate.
