ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u1	The next item is the debate on the progress of the implementation of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, in accordance with the Dijksma c.s. motion, Document 24170, No. 170. I warmly welcome the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport and the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment and give Mr Renkema the floor as the first speaker on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u2	My compliments to the chairman. I'm not going to imitate you, because I couldn't. I am very happy that we can have this debate at a time when a lot of people who want to follow this can actually experience it live. The Secretary of State remembers that a while ago we debated legislation on the Wajong. That debate lasted until the hours of the night. I actually thought that was a bad signal from the House of Representatives about inclusion, because you want people to be there. Recently, I wrote in a blog that the term "work limited" is complicated, because everyone may want to work, but not always can do everything. Then I got a critical reaction from someone who needs a wheelchair in her daily life. She wrote to me, and that was right to say that if someone has to adapt to virtually all areas of life every day, there really is a limitation. Our society actually makes a person's limitation become a handicap to participation. Mr. Chairman. I am shocked that more than three years after ratification we have to conclude that in the Netherlands the position of people with disabilities has not improved, but has deteriorated: in terms of income, employment participation, participation in decision-making, care, resources and education. It is not difficult to sign, but it is also very difficult to put it into practice. I would like to respond and will put some fundamental questions to the Minister and the Secretary of State. First of all, the government does not review its own legislation. I think that's serious. It is precisely the government that should take the lead, but shows itself not to take it too seriously with such a treaty. I would like to receive a response from both regiments. Why isn't this happening right now? And more specifically, why, for example, didn't the recent amendment on the Wajong be submitted to the Human Rights College? Is the Secretary of State aware that the most common cry from experience experts is precisely the call for security of existence? I'd like a reaction from her. I also have a question for the Minister. Is he prepared to design a procedure whereby all the new laws and regulations that come into the Chamber are automatically reviewed? Can it not simply be included in the advisory procedure of the Council of State? My second point concerns decentralisation in the social domain and the role of the municipalities. Such an inclusion agenda to be drawn up by the municipalities is only available at a quarter of the municipalities. Experience experts are also often not included at all in Wmo councils and client councils. What is the Minister going to do to ensure that all 355 municipalities have such a local inclusion agenda in a year's time? Mr. Chairman. More generally, I noticed that there is a large and sometimes stark contrast between the letters we receive from the Minister and the reports of the College of Human Rights, but above all that shadow report. Yesterday we received a letter from the Minister. He writes that this shadow report is not an evaluation of the action programme Unlimited participation! That's what I understood. In fact, the Minister writes: this shadow report uses figures prior to the start of the action programme and the Alliance has not asked for any positive experience at all. Next, the letter is mainly about good steps and all kinds of good initiatives. Mr. Chairman. This is where I'm concerned. While the policy reality in The Hague says that parts of the situation are actually improving, people with disabilities experience a very different reality. I quote Rick Brink, the Minister for Disabled Persons, who writes: people with disabilities are not sufficiently visible; as long as we do not know what human lives are about, we will be following the facts. I would like a reflection on this from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. I believe that today we must conclude that our task around such a UN treaty is greater than once a year in this debate, greater than the insertion of our specific party political points and more than seven lines of action. We need to develop a broad vision with each other in which we do not always have to ask for space for people with disabilities, but in which we, as a society, naturally make it clear that they have that space. Finally, I would like to remind all the parties here of the initiative law that GroenLinks wrote with the PvdA and D66 to add disability to Article 1 of the Constitution. I really assume that after today that change will go through this Chamber unanimously. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u3	Thank you, Mr Renkema. I now give the floor to Mr Hijink on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands was one of the last three countries to ratify the UN Convention on equal rights for people with disabilities. Unfortunately, little has changed about this slowness, because it is still not working to improve the position of people with disabilities. In fact, the position of people with disabilities has not improved in recent years, but has deteriorated considerably. Their income position has deteriorated considerably. Jan from Veenendaal We know him by now all of us could turn in his extra for his anniversary directly to the UWV. The social workshops had to be closed. Lived 20% of people with poverty reduction in 2009, which was almost 25% in 2016. Meanwhile, the cost of care has increased considerably and municipalities provide less guidance. I am now prepared to ask the Minister how he himself thinks it is going. How is it that, after ratification of the UN Convention, the position of people with disabilities on all these fronts has deteriorated? Since the decentralisations in 2015, the legal status of people with disabilities has also deteriorated. There are large differences between municipalities and everywhere there are severe cuts in care, support and guidance. My question to the Minister is whether he recognizes and acknowledges this criticism. My question is also what he will do to solve these problems. Access to buildings or public transport is not self-evident. There are more children with disabilities at home, without education, than before. That's an embarrassment. What's the Cabinet gonna do about this? How are you going to ensure that all children in our country can live a full life? Mr. Chairman. Why don't I see anger in this cabinet when people with disabilities go backwards on all fronts? Where is the indignation, now that it appears that the Participation Act has only worked as a flat cut? Sometimes more time is needed, the cabinet writes optimistically in its own pieces, sometimes more time is needed. But more time for what? This is not about time, it is about the will to take action, rather than consistently pointing to others. Because that's what happens: people don't get an adapted wheelchair or another tool much too late. The municipality has to solve it, says the government, but why doesn't she organise it herself? Public transport is poorly accessible. The rail companies and bus companies have to solve it. But why doesn't the government force it faster? Buildings are poorly accessible, but others have to agree on them. Why is the Building Decision not being further amended so that all buildings are accessible as soon as possible? Mr. Chairman. The legal situation of people with disabilities has deteriorated on all fronts. This is also evident from the devastating shadow report, which we have all had. What does the Minister think of this criticism and criticism that his action plans have no concrete goals and no clear planning? The Minister's positivo tweets do not give a good idea of the position we are in. Because the criticism in the shadow report confirms exactly what we hear from people themselves and what we read in these reports. The fine PR of the Ministry is at odds with this reality. Mr. Chairman. The position of people with disabilities is not sufficiently guaranteed when making new laws and policies. My colleague Renkema also spoke about this. We also believe that it would be very good if new laws were to look at the impact on people with disabilities by default and to ensure that all new laws and new rules made here take into account people with disabilities. Is the cabinet prepared to introduce some kind of test for all the new rules and laws that are being made, also to prevent us from further heating up on this oh, so important topic? For I think it is a shame that three years after the ratification of this treaty we have to observe that no progress has been made but that there has been a decline, partly due to cabinet policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u5	Thank you, Mr. Hijink. I now give the floor to Mr Kerstens on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u6	Mr President, a very good morning to the Minister and Secretary of State, but above all to all the people we are talking about today, who are following the debate today, at home or here in the public gallery. Fortunately, I see a number of familiar faces there. Well, that makes sense, too, because it's about you guys today. As the people themselves always say, not about us without us. And so it is. That's how it's gotta be. Because in the Netherlands everyone should count, everyone should be able to participate, whoever you are, whatever you are, wherever you come from and whatever you can or can't do. In this respect, the implementation of the UN Convention in 2016 was an important step, a milestone, a little support for people with disabilities, who are so keen to participate, and a boost for all of us to make that possible. It has to be said: the treaty has given that a boost. More attention, more ideas, more plans, more activities; we all read about it in the Minister's progress reports. At the same time, there is a shadow side. This is evident from the recently published shadow report, in which people themselves have been asked how they feel about it. Then you see that we are far from there, that there is still a very long way to go and that if we continue on this road, we will never get there either. The Netherlands gets an insufficient, copied a newspaper. The current approach does not work, is the conclusion of the report. That's a solid conclusion. I'll ask the Secretary of State and the Minister how they look at that. Do they also think that in recent years things have been worse than they have been better? If not, did all people see that wrong? If so, what are they going to do to reverse the tide? Does the Minister and the Secretary of State, like me, think that too much non-committalism, whether it is towards municipalities, business or towards ourselves as a state government, and the lack of time paths, solid frameworks, obligations and consequences if they are not met, really not work? Mr. Chairman. I myself have a number of concrete proposals to improve the situation of the people concerned. A central point here is: remove the non-committality. Things that may be self-evident don't happen by themselves. You may think that something is going to happen automatically, but then you may also find that it doesn't happen automatically, as is likely to happen here. Firstly, force municipalities, as well as provinces and other ministries, to create a real inclusion agenda, with frameworks that have to meet such an agenda, a time when it has to be there, the obligation to involve the people who are involved, really actively and with consequences if all of this does not happen. Secondly, the general measures of governance on accessibility need to be strengthened. Make it clear once and for all what it means and also rule here that the people concerned are involved in the action plans. Key those plans as well and make them firmer if necessary. Take it if it doesn't go well. And do the same with the Building Order. In the case of new construction and renovation, make accessibility mandatory by default. Finally, make it possible for people to complain to the UN Committee if the Convention is not complied with. If you say "a," say "b." If you ratify the treaty and if you say you're committed to it, you have to have the courage to test it. Mr. Chairman. With good intentions, fine words and only our best we're not gonna make it. In taking the treaty seriously, and in particular taking the people involved seriously, there is more to it than just good intentions, fine words and doing our best. There are actions, there are legislation and there are results. That is what the Labour Party, together with the people involved, would like to be concerned about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u7	I actually only hear Mr Kerstens talking about forcing others to draw up more plans, for example the municipality. But is Mr Kerstens also prepared to look back on what has happened in recent years when it comes to the income position of people with disabilities, the cost of care, and guidance and support for people with disabilities? How does Mr. Kerstens look back on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u8	That's a fair question. I think we can all see that if the shadow report concludes that it has gotten worse for many people rather than better, we can recognize it and that a number of elements play a role in it that Mr Hijink just mentioned. There has just been talk of the Participation Act and its recent changes, which are less good than more good. I have said many times myself that close proximity to good care is becoming increasingly difficult to access, especially for vulnerable people. So I certainly want things to improve in that regard too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u9	That's a little too easy for me. In preparing for this debate, I also had to remember former Secretary of State Jetta Klijnsma, who suggested that people should take their own vegetable garden if they can't make ends meet. At the time, there were so many deteriorations in the income position of very vulnerable people. I hear the PvdA now saying: we need to come up with more plans and the municipality needs to do more. But where has the responsibility of the Labour Party itself been when it came to breaking down the care and breaking down the income position of these people, which you now say should never have happened?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u10	Mr. Hijink says he's dived into the pieces. Then he may have also found that I have already firmly distanced myself from that remark at the time. I think that I have just said that everyone in the Netherlands counts and that everyone should be able to participate, and that it is our responsibility to enable people to participate. If you note that things are different, then it is our responsibility, and we take them as Labour Party, not to continue to deny that they are. You must acknowledge that and you must join the people who want things to be different and better, as Mr Hijink did. We are more than willing to do so. Mr Hijink sees me making proposals there in the debate on health care.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u11	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Bergkamp on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u12	Good morning. "All who are in the Netherlands are treated equally. Discrimination on grounds of religion, belief in life, political orientation, race, gender, disability, sexual orientation or on any ground shall not be permitted." If everything goes well, this will be the first article of our Constitution in a few years' time. We are in the process of examining an initiative law, my colleague from GroenLinks has already given this to D66, GroenLinks and the PvdA. We therefore hope that this law will be passed. It's a good step, but it's not nearly enough. Because the letters and, in particular, the shadow reports we receive show that people with disabilities do not get the same opportunities as people without them. For D66, that's unbelievable. We stand for opportunities for everyone, regardless of disability or disability. The fact that we are standing where we are now, twelve years after the signing of the UN Convention, means that this coordinating minister must work with his colleagues. This may also lead to broader questions, but is important in view of the progress made. How does this coordinating minister actually shape his duties? Are there also work agendas for accessibility in all ministries, for example? Can the Minister promise that the recommendations from the shadow report will end up there as well? My colleague said: you see a difference between people's policies and perceptions. What about the municipalities themselves? How will the decentralised implementation practice be brought into line with the UN Convention, as my amendment, together with the SGP, has requested? Recently, the Minister has also often referred to the contour note. Does the position of people with disabilities in the system also feature explicitly in this? Mr. Chairman. Of course, this equality of opportunity also begins with children. It took a while, but I am very glad that the Minister has taken over the importance of playing together. Two years ago, I made a proposal for that. It is important that we also measure progress, because the agreement was made from action programme to practice. Is the Minister therefore willing to set up a quantitative monitor and a qualitative monitor with the VNG, Each (in) and The Playground Gang, so that we can really see progress? When it comes to that qualitative monitor, it is of course also important to see how many of them are there and how people experience them. Mr. Chairman. In the case of accessible mobility, we also often talk about public transport. It is good that Minister Van Veldhoven and, for example, the NS have also taken steps in this area, such as travel assistance, which will also apply at night. And the other day we read the incredible story of someone in a wheelchair who was simply carried from the train because the train was too full. When I read those messages, I think: how far away are we from the United Nations Convention in its intention? How is that possible, I ask the ministers. Do they share the anger that this kind of thing happens? It seems very embarrassing to me if something like this happens to you. We can't let that happen. I also think about the disabled parking spaces. I share the view that municipalities have freedom of policy, but I also notice that it is often very opaque for people with disabilities and cars where they can park and what the parking costs are. Is the Minister prepared to work with the VNG to ensure that there is clear information on every site of the municipalities? Mr. Chairman. My party and I stand for an inclusive and diverse society in which everyone can participate. Unfortunately, we see that more and more people feel that they cannot participate or can participate, also because the bar is often so high and also because there is apparently a standard that everyone has to meet. Let us not only allow diversity, but also cherish it. It makes the world happier and more beautiful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u13	Thank you, Mrs Bergkamp. Mr Renkema has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u14	In my contribution, I said something about the government's review of legislation and regulations. We recently had a law change in the Wajong. A motion was tabled asking that, before we voted on it here in the House of Representatives, it should be reviewed by the Human Rights College. I was wondering why D66 didn't support that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u15	I assume that has also been exchanged in the debate. Because we support the Secretary of State in that. It also indicated in the debate that it had been in contact with interest groups and had a good conversation, including with VWS, and that a review at that time would mean that there would be a delay. Looking at the benefits of the law, we didn't really like that delay. In addition, we have also supported a number of amendments from other parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u16	I know D66 as a party that always wants to be pure of state law. Such a UN convention is, of course, important. We have to wait for what the rulers will come up with. If I am going to make a proposal to ensure that new laws and regulations are always reviewed, I naturally find D66 on my side.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u17	If Mr Renkema makes a proposal, I will, of course, take a serious look at it. It is very important that we always ask the directors if there has been good contact with the people we are talking about. I think that's a very important one. But I am certainly going to look with great interest at Mr Renkema's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u18	Thank you, Mrs Bergkamp. I now give the floor to Mrs Van den Berg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good morning to the people in the bleachers, too. Mr. Chairman. Work gives purpose, direction, income, offers development opportunities and gives social contacts. You participate in society and each contributes in its own way. The recent report of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau also stresses the importance of having work for self-esteem, economic independence and social cohesion. That is why the CDA of the seven lines of action chosen by the Minister wants to discuss work in particular. It is therefore a good thing that the Secretary of State for Social Affairs is present. The Alliance's shadow report shows that only 36% of people with physical disabilities have jobs. Of people with psychosocial problems, that percentage is even lower. That is very disappointing and we in the CDA Group find it disturbing. The Minister's response to the shadow report shows that no clear definitions have been agreed, and the Minister refers to the municipalities for the realisation. But, Mr. Chairman, that's no excuse. We have ratified a treaty as the Netherlands to refer to the municipalities. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. TNO's research shows that 49% of employers are not even familiar with the reduction in social insurance and the no-risk scheme in the event of illness and disability, and that only 2% of employers allow retraining to another job or job. Can the Secretary of State give greater publicity to these schemes, both to employers and to people with disabilities? Mr. Chairman. Despite the fact that the train has started to run, we have to note that there is still a lot of work to be done. People with disabilities experience a deterioration in their income position and employment rates, as our disability ambassador Rick Brink says. In other words, many people with disabilities still have a lot of difficulty in participating in society. That is why we have the following question: is the Minister prepared to follow a small group of people with chronic illness or disability for a year? For example, we think of a student with a disability, or a parent with a child with a disability, or someone with a disability at welfare level. Do these groups know the way to arrangements? Maybe then we'll see things the government can adjust. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. What about the general monitoring? The Minister's June report identifies many qualitative actions, such as the broad offensive on work. But the recent indicator list we have received is only very limited. How are all these other actions monitored and when will that overview be sent to the House of Representatives? The question also arises as to why zero measurements of indicators are different and sometimes outdated.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u20	The CDA proposes to follow a number of people in practice. That might be interesting, but still. We have many contacts with interest groups that collect all kinds of complaints and comments. In addition, we think it is important to engage with experience experts locally. And frankly, every human being is different. If you're following two people, it's not entirely representative of the whole group. How's the CDA looking at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u21	Two things about that. If you look at the experiences of interest groups and how it's all collected, you get the big average again. Then you don't see the diversity of complaints and problems people run into. The very concrete examples must of course be more than a few, but they do not have to be hundreds. Just because you can zoom in very well, you can see in concrete terms what regulations people can run into, what financial problems people can run into, precisely from that particular situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u22	On the one hand, I understand that, but I'm a little worried as long as it's just a few. Then it's not representative of all people. I can imagine that the Minister interprets the question as how to know as well as possible what is going on. I follow this minister on Twitter and I see him talking to people at a lot of learning visits. For the Minister, the question is how to do it in a smart way. I'm so afraid we have an incomplete story based on a few people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u23	No, it is certainly not that we say that we have an incomplete story on the basis of a few people, but we think that we really need to follow a few dozen people concretely. For example, they could be supplied by interbranch organisations. They know how serious people run into these cases. We do think it can be very enlightening for the reflection on the laws and regulations we make.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u24	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u25	I had already asked for all the other actions that have been implemented, but which are not included in the list of indicators. In the cabinet's response to the investigation of people with a slight intellectual disability, it is stated that the results of that investigation are in line with the actions already taken by the cabinet for this target group. As far as we're concerned, there's a little bit more to do here. The CDA understands that social redundancy cannot be caught in one solution, but often these people are not understood and not recognized by government organisations. As a result, they miss opportunities and opportunities or fall into poverty and make debts. Is it not better to bring best practice to the municipalities? I'd like a response from the Minister. Finally. How is progress on the BES islands supported? These are also Dutch municipalities. What is the Minister doing to ensure that facilities for hearing impaired persons are provided in all publicly accessible buildings? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u26	I am glad that the CDA is putting the emphasis on one of the lines of action: work. Now there is a report from the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau on the Participation Act. This is also about people with disabilities who really want to participate and find a job. Work is important, because then you'll be seen and you'll have colleagues. Work makes sense, but also simply an income and therefore security of existence. What does the CDA think of the report on the Participation Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u27	I think my colleague René Peters has talked about this. We see the problems outlined in this report. That is precisely why we say that we need to focus much more on work and that we need to bring regulation to the attention of employers and stakeholders themselves. Then there will be many more possibilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u28	There will be another debate about, say, the exploitation of the Participation Act. I do not have a question, but I assume that the CDA wants to look very critically at the report and in that debate insists on the importance of work and its significance for legislation and regulation in order for people to really take that step. I also hope that they will support proposals in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u29	My colleague René Peters will indeed do that. We have discussed this report in the group. I also started my input by saying that work can be so decisive for all those other aspects of life.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u30	Mrs Van den Berg cited the shadow report in her contribution. Then I thought: now she will also say something about the conclusion that is drawn from it, namely that the current approach, despite all good intentions and efforts, does not work and that the non-committality must be removed. I then heard Mrs Van den Berg talk about monitoring.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u31	You're not going to sum up everything, are you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u32	No, I'm not. Mrs Van den Berg spoke about monitoring and giving good examples. What does she think and what does the CDA think of the conclusion that the current approach does not work and that non-binding should be removed?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u33	That was one of my first questions to the Minister. I say: we have ratified this treaty as the Netherlands. That is why I believe that we, as a Dutch government, have a responsibility in this and that it cannot say that it is not yet working because the municipalities have not done their things yet. Of course, these municipalities also have a role to play, but I think that the Dutch government should be leading in this, so the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u34	I agree with Mrs van den Berg, of course. My follow-up question is: what should the role of the government be like, other than collecting or sharing good examples, following people, monitoring and the like? How can that role look like? How could the national government be less voluntary in order to significantly improve the lives of people in the public gallery and at home?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u35	I believe that the word 'non-binding' mentioned by Mr Kerstens is at the heart of it. For certain parts you have to say: this is how we are going to do it all over the Netherlands. That is no longer a choice of the municipality, because in certain parts it is said: this is a central approach. For example, with regard to youth care, we have now also concluded that some individual municipalities run into complex youth care services and that we may need to organise them differently. The same could be true of this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u36	Thank you, Mrs Van den Berg, and thank you, Mr Kerstens. I now give the floor to Mr Segers on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u37	Thank you, Madam President. I would also like to thank you for opening this debate. That was impressive and, as far as I am concerned, an understatement and encouragement to continue with the initiative law of the PvdA Group, the D66 Group and our own group to recognise sign language, Dutch sign language. The deaf interpreter working there is also such an encouragement. "Society makes us vulnerable, because society is not adapted to us." Those are words from the well-known champion of equal treatment for all, Noortje van Lith. Noortje's words accurately reflect what is at stake: people with disabilities do not want to be vulnerable. They just want to participate in a society, like everyone else, and without hindrance. That touches my belief that the value of all of us, the value of every human being, does not depend on what you do or what you can or what other people think of you, but that you are a unique creature of God. The UN Convention on Disabled Persons, which has been applicable to the Netherlands since July 2016, gives people with disabilities the right to participate fully and on an equal footing with others in society. We've been three years. While the Minister still speaks euphemistically of "a carefully rising line" or "a stable picture," the shadow report we receive is downright critical, for example on the issue of the Participation Act and the Wajong Act, which do not help people with disabilities enough to get a paid job. People with disabilities are not sufficiently involved in the formulation of policies. There is also a deterioration in support, participation and provision of tools. Does the Minister and the Secretary of State agree with me that the reports at least make it clear that the action programme is in full swing! It should not remain a non-binding action plan, but that a state-wide approach is needed in which other ministries also assume their responsibilities? Of course, a list of 42 indicators is nice, but without targets and a timetable, it cannot be determined whether this progress is sufficient. The UN Convention is not about political choices that we can or cannot make, but about obligations of the State. People with disabilities just have the right to participate. I am also curious to see how the Minister assesses the commitment of the municipalities. The Minister for Disabled Persons, who is also here, I just saw him come in. Then, within the Christian Union, we started working on this and gave our own council members and aldermen an encouragement: how about in your congregation? That gives a slightly variable picture. Sometimes this is part of a broader agenda in the social domain, but I think it would be good to have a conversation with municipalities, with the VNG, to see what their commitment is and whether an additional step should also be taken in relation to that local inclusion agenda. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the transport. Not all carriers do the same in terms of accessibility, travel assistance and guidance. Mr Bergkamp already referred to this. Is the Minister prepared to agree on what accessibility is a basic provision for each carrier, including these agreements as a lower limit for procurement? I'm considering tabling a motion on that point. Mr. Chairman. The shadow report shows that a quarter of people with disabilities live in poverty and social exclusion. Furthermore, the development of the purchasing power of people with disabilities is far below the average. Is the Minister prepared to investigate the income position of households with a family member with disabilities and to properly map both income and expenditure? Finally, I would like to repeat Mr Van den Berg's question: what is the Minister going to do to ensure that the obligations of the Treaty are fulfilled in the Caribbean part of the Netherlands as well? My colleague Stieneke van der Graaf has held a motion on this point. I'm afraid I'm gonna have to leave before noon. My colleague Stieneke van der Graaf will do the follow-up to the debate and also the second term. So much for this service announcement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u38	Do you still have time to answer my question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u39	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u40	It's actually the same question I asked D66. The Christian Union says a number of things here about poverty, but also about legislation such as the Participation Act and the Wajong. A treaty has been signed that says: "In fact, the government should just look at the impact on the target group of the regulations we agree on." That signature wasn't written for nothing. A motion has been tabled to the Wajong debate saying: let it test before we vote. The Christian Union did not support that motion. That surprised me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u41	I'm surprised at your information. I heard you ask Mr Bergkamp that question. Then I thought he might ask me the same question. So I went to dig. I saw a green check on both D66 and the Christian Union Group when it comes to the motion for a resolution on the review of the Treaty. I am therefore in favour of a review, and I am therefore in favour of a review of the UN Convention at important moments. You cannot say: that is always the case, for all legislation. But recently we have proposed a generation test. Then you look at important moments how it works out for different generations. I would very much like to carry out such a test when it comes to compliance with the UN Convention and its impact on disabled people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u42	Maybe we're talking about two different motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u43	It could be.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u44	We're gonna have to put it next to each other. My follow-up question is next. Do I find the Christian Union on my side if I made a proposal to ensure that laws and regulations are always automatically reviewed under the UN Convention?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u45	I just had a few phrases that I do think are important. When you say "all laws and regulations," I think you are asking a lot. I don't know if it's always relevant, every law, every rule. But at a number of very significant moments, in the case of large legislation, you mentioned, for example, the Wajong................................................................................................................................................................................................. Otherwise, we have four minutes of speaking time here on a lot of subjects where a lot of things come along and then it can just drift away. So I think it is important to also have the possibility of saying "we're going to test this law" in individual laws, so we don't have the obligation to always do it with every rule and every law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u46	Does the Christian Union think that people with restrictions should be able to travel at train rates?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u47	You're asking me a little bit about tariffs. I don't know. But the assumption is that it isn't. That is in your question. When it comes to accessibility, I find that amazing, I must say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u48	It is true that the kilometres for Valys transport are limited to 700 kilometres. Up to 700 kilometers there is a train fare. Afterwards, people with disabilities will pay €1.20 per kilometer. That is a huge fivefold increase in the amount. I have tabled a motion on this before. I believe that we will also have to regulate equivalence in this area. So I'm gonna file a motion. If you can look at it, I hope you'll have your support.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u49	I'm definitely gonna check it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u50	Thank you, Mr Segers. I now give the floor to Mrs Agema on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. During my input to the debate on the UN Disability Convention in 2015, I pointed out that most of the issues in the treaty before Rutte II were better regulated and that the rude austerity measures of Rutte II were not in line with that treaty. I ended my speech with the question whether a few years later we would be proudly at the top of countries that did not only ratify, but actually did something, or whether that was just ratification and would become 'doe' for the rest. The answer to this question is clear. Our minister came here again with an action programme and, of course, with a nice picture with the shadow minister of disability. According to the Minister, the indicators of the programme show a cautious upward trend and a stable picture on other themes. This is pure talk. The shadow report sketches a completely different picture that contrasts with the Minister's findings. This report shows that despite the action programme and the nice pictures, implementation is far from going well. The situation has gotten worse for people with disabilities. The letter from the shadow minister of disability, Mr Brink, confirms my fear that, in particular, the decentralisation of policies has led to a deterioration in the living conditions of people with disabilities. Their income position, employment rates, unemployment, support, resource provision and education have deteriorated. And I haven't even mentioned the repulsive legislation on care and coercion, including in the home situation. A broadcast and the black book of television programme Kassa revealed once again the state of bureaucracy in resource care and what misery people experience. The decentralisation of policies towards the municipalities was accompanied by a huge cut in the budget, especially in cases where people with disabilities were given the necessary support. The household aid, day-to-day spending, compensation for your own risk, income compensation in the WTCG, accommodation facilities: it is all ravaged or abolished. So these are austerity measures on facilities that supported the lives of people with disabilities both financially and in other ways. Were these cuts reversed in the past period? No. This fits in perfectly with the shadow report, which is very appropriately called "Yes, it really means yes". I was shocked that the number of people with disabilities living in poverty increased to almost 25% in 2016. I ask the Minister or the Secretary of State for the current figures on this matter. As far as my group is concerned, basic matters must be well arranged. I was also very shocked that thousands of people with disabilities no longer have a general practitioner. I would ask the Minister to address this point in concrete terms. This can't be happening. I do not want an action plan, but a solution, even before the summer. People can count on good care, support and cooperation. As far as I'm concerned, a suitable home is also such a basic thing. In our country, everyone must be able to live in a suitable home. There is a huge shortage of regular affordable homes, let alone customized homes. People are on a waiting list for a place like this, a place they haven't got. An inventory is being made, but I am also asking for concrete plans. When will they build where? I'd like a response from the Minister. An ageing population alone will increase the demand for suitable housing. How is the Minister going to make sure those homes actually get there? Is he taking control? Another basic point is transport. This too is not well arranged. For example, in the summer there was a report in the newspaper that the holiday of two young girls with anxiety disorder was ruined because they were not allowed to take their help dog on the plane. Can the Minister take action on this issue? Help dogs must have access to all types of transport: on the train, the bus, the taxi, but also on the plane. Then there's another crazy point. Hey, my time's running all the way back, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u52	I'm fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u53	Mr President, the kilometre limit, my heart cry!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u54	You can wrap it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u55	I find it unfair that people with disabilities are limited in the number of kilometres they are allowed to travel per year. The minister came with 100 kilometers. Then we go from 600 kilometers to 700 kilometers. That is not a week or a month, I think the Minister is going to spend this number of kilometres a week, but a year. I believe that people with disabilities are treated unfairly in this way. I think they should be able to travel at train rates and not just 700 kilometres, but an unlimited number of kilometres. If they exceed 700 kilometers, the rate should not go to €1.20 per kilometer. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u56	Thank you, Mrs Agema. Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u57	I very much agree with that. We will wholeheartedly support any proposal to abolish the ceiling. I would also like to ask Mrs Agema what she thinks of the following. We recently received a very poignant example of a man who did not get an extension of his kilometres, because he could walk another 50 to 100 metres. It is stated that if you can travel that distance, you will not get those extra kilometers. I got really angry about that, because everyone understands that during a public transport journey you should easily walk more than 50 or 100 meters. Does Mrs. Agema agree? If we were to propose an end to the maximum number of kilometres, would we put an end to this mess?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u58	I wholeheartedly agree with Mr Hijink. Thank you for this supplement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u59	Okay. Thank you, Mrs Agema. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u60	Madam President. When preparing for this debate, I actually had to remember my first work interview at my first job. The chief attorney said to me: you Kees are doing very well, but I wonder if things are getting better or if it's going to stay the same or if it's getting worse. I was actually a little surprised, because I thought it makes sense that things are getting better on their own. This helped to make an extra effort, because it's not self-evident. The same is true of this subject. Everyone thinks it's such a great treaty, so it's gonna get better and better, right? You hear the stories of people, read the reports and see that there are also things that go well and better. Let's not leave that unnamed. Beautiful examples of this can be found in the pieces. But there are also stories that you think aren't true. I heard from someone the story of him taking a wheelchair to a store he'd been going to for years. In the past thresholds had been removed, but they had just returned to a renovation. That's such a concrete example of where things don't go well by themselves. So the question is also how do we achieve that we are indeed moving forward and not backburning from the accessible society in which everyone can participate? I also realise that we do not settle this at the push of a button from The Hague, but at the same time it is incredibly important that we, as politicians, are also alert to everything we get. We must also note from the cabinet that it wants to play an exciting role and is not satisfied with this. The cabinet must say that everyone can wake us up to this point at any time of the day, because we cannot accept decline. I would like to comment on this point. Remarkable improvements are a legitimate goal of unlimited participation. Mr. Chairman. If you, as a Member of Parliament, have an amendment to the law, you think, "Now I've really arranged something." In a motion, you know that it is fortunately only occasionally very little that rulers say that the motion is widely supported, but that they are going to do something else. You should learn that as a Member of Parliament. If an amendment is really in the law, that's how it's gonna happen. Yes, but when I look at the amendment to part No. 35 that we have submitted together with D66 that is about that municipalities really have as homework that they have to settle it neatly with local agendas that state exactly what they are going to do, then it does not happen automatically. Following on from Mrs Bergkamp, I would like to ask whether the Minister is prepared to play an exciting role in this, so that it does. Because I think it is very important, in addition to pressure and rules, that action be initiated at local level, close to the people. Mr. Chairman. One final, concrete point on the right to life. We have had a discussion about the right to life in Article 10 of the Treaty. The Netherlands has given an interpretative explanation, an explanation of its own. Will the Minister also respond to the critical reflection of the College of Human Rights on the interpretative statement? One specific point from the shadow report in this context. The organisations, affiliated to the alliance that monitors compliance with the Convention, make a very concrete suggestion: also in prenatal screening, provide accessible information, stating that having a limitation in itself does not say anything about the experienced quality of life. I think that is an important and good point. Can the rulers promise that this will happen in practice? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u61	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u62	Thank you, Mr President. In 2016 the Netherlands undertook to strengthen the position of people with disabilities with the signing of the UN Convention. However, as has already been mentioned by many previous speakers, the shadow report by five interest groups reports that unemployment has increased. The Participation Act has not worked and the number of people with a disability living in poverty has increased to as much as 25%. According to the CPB, the Participation Act has hardly led to an increase in job opportunities. Former Wajongers may come to work a little more often, but they earn less and the work is usually temporary. Of the people who were previously able to find work in a social workshop, only about 40% have a job. Mr. Chairman. People with disabilities find it difficult to get care, support and special education. There is a large shortage of affordable adapted homes. Many people with disabilities do not feel heard, engaged and discriminated against. The cabinet wants to counter this situation with the Unlimited Programme!, a completely non-binding action plan. And the Cabinet writes that more time is needed. But when it comes to the legal status of people with disabilities, if these rights are not fully guaranteed, if legislation is not reviewed against the UN Convention that was signed three years ago... The cabinet needs more time, but the people that matter today don't have that time. The ambition of the cabinet seems positive, but completely ignores the underlying problems, as outlined in the shadow report. According to the organisations, the decentralisation of care is an important factor. Both austerity and lack of policy frameworks, central management and effective monitoring lead to a deterioration in the position of people with disabilities. What does the Minister himself think of that? Will the Minister accept the many recommendations contained in the shadow report? Mr. Chairman. Finally. There is no time to lose to give people with disabilities the protection and opportunities they not only need, but also deserve.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u63	Thank you, Mrs Van Kooten. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Laan-Geselschap on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When you are born, you have no influence on how you look and how you are going to function; you are who you are. For some, that means you're born with some kind of limitation. That can be both physical and spiritual. Others do so in the course of their lives, which means that they have to go further with a limitation. It's never a choice, but it's something you have to deal with for the rest of your life. Often not only yourself, but also your surroundings, your family and your friends, who are often your support and abandon in this situation. To us, but also to them, the mission and the task to keep the restriction as little as possible in the way possible. Join, experience and live! Mr. Chairman. On 14 July 2016, the Netherlands ratified the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. With the signing of this treaty, our country has committed itself to a multitude of things that should allow people with disabilities to have the same opportunities as the rest of the Dutch. However, that is not yet the case. There is a great deal of delay in many areas and it needs to be eliminated. Think, for example, of awareness, mobility and equality. There are also a lot of steps to be taken to make our country literally and figuratively free of threshold. Mr. Chairman. The reports issued around 3 December show a critical picture of developments in our society in terms of opportunities and opportunities for people with disabilities. I myself do not believe in a creative society and realize very well that the signing of a treaty does not solve all the problems. It is not the case that the government itself can initiate, enforce all developments and that today or tomorrow everything has improved. I do believe that, for example, a catering entrepreneur will do everything in his power to make his or her lunchroom accessible. For example, SMEs in the Netherlands have launched a campaign to draw entrepreneurs' attention to the opportunities for doing so. By letting it come from this sector itself, it goes ten times faster, and more efficiently. For the VVD this is most important: awareness of the fact that if you seem different, you are no different and certainly don't need to be treated differently. That is a liberal principle: people deserve the same opportunities. Looking through those glasses, what do we see that's happened lately, and what should happen in the future? I think we should look at ourselves first. The government should set an example. The ministries have been made physically accessible, but the working environment does not always appear to be accessible to all civil servants. Employees with disabilities sometimes have to wait months for the good equipment. I'm asking the Minister to do better than that. Can the Minister promise that he and his colleagues will see how we can speed up these processes? Mr. Chairman. Digital accessibility is also important. The website of the House of Representatives complies with all web guidelines. What is the government doing to bring these directives to the attention of the private sector? I am also curious to see how this accessibility is going in the healthcare sector. It is precisely the healthcare sector that should anticipate this. Can the Minister paint a picture of that? We have to look at ourselves, too. Everyone is busy with this building, but the office is not accessible from the Chamber for people with disabilities, for example. I think we can add a little bit more to that. And when it comes to remodeling, it seems to me that people, who are all very welcome in this house, should also be explicitly invited to sit down at the table. The involvement of people at stake must also be done at local level. My fellow Members have already said a great deal about this, and we think so too. We will come back to that later with a motion. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. Living together is at the basis of the implementation of this treaty: seeing that we are all human beings, with all our own special features. Unknown makes unloved, so we have to make sure that people are loved. A wonderful example of this are schools where children at a young age get used to children with disabilities. You can see that they support each other, help each other carry the school bag, keep the door open and get the soda can out of the vending machine. Another example is the sports associations, which connect athletes. A sitting volleyball association and a volleyball association in Rotterdam together in one sports hall, together in the board and together in the cafeteria: I like that, and that's how it should be. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u65	Mrs. Laan thinks we should look at ourselves. I think that's very wise. It could just happen that this cabinet is going to make Christmas, and if we're not careful, we're going to have the next Easter. Then we come to the situation that we have been dealing for almost ten years with Prime Minister Rutte and the policy of the VVD for ten years. The question to Mrs Laan is: what has ten years of VVD policy, ten years of leadership from Prime Minister Rutte, now meant for people with disabilities? In what areas does she consider progress to have been made?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u66	I believe that I have just indicated that this Convention was ratified on 14 July 2016, and that is what we are discussing today. So from that moment on, that's the subject of conversation. And I think we can all very well praise ourselves with a very competent, reasonable, friendly but also very good Prime Minister, the Prime Minister of all the Dutch. And that there can be improvements in the area we are talking about today, I agree with you 100%. My basis is and I prefer the fact that we regulate whatever we can, because I do not think there is anyone against this treaty, and nobody is against the fact that people with disabilities should be able to move forward in life and get opportunities. But there are things that need to be turned on even more. In addition, there are a number of things on which I agree with your text, which we are now accelerating. But now, by talking about this and exchanging a number of motions with each other, we have made the world better tomorrow for those who so need it, I do not believe in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u67	Finally, Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u68	I wasn't looking for a round of "speaks of our prime minister."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u69	That's what you asked for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u70	I didn't ask how great our Prime Minister is. I have asked what the policies of our Prime Minister and the VVD have achieved in the last ten years for people with disabilities. Then I do not hear Mrs Laan mention one example in which she says: well, here we have really achieved something for people with disabilities. I will tell you what has been achieved. As far as care and income are concerned, the policy has led to a decline and more children with disabilities are at home than before when it comes to education. Those are the results. Then you should not just refer to the text of the treaty and that it is so wonderful that it has been ratified, because that is a paper reality. I would like to know from the VVD what concrete results have been achieved under the VVD regime. I don't hear one yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u71	I understand that's how the SP wants to put it in a certain frame. That is also the right of the SP. The SP hints that the VVD has been on its own in the last ten years. Sometimes it would be nice if you as a party had the maximum majority, but we have always ruled in coalition form. First of all, that is a statement on my part. Next, I think there are a lot of things in which the VVD has taken good steps and where the SP does not agree at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u72	Name one. Where has progress been made?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u73	Mr. Hijink...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u74	I would like to debate this with each other in this way, but that is not common in this house. I would like to invite you to come to Rotterdam; then we will have a discussion there. The debate you have had with this Secretary of State is not good in your view, but we as VVDs thought it was a good debate. The fact that much more money is allocated to paralympic athletes in the Netherlands has, of course, happened under Minister Bruins and the previous Sport Ministers. You do not want to read that, but progress has been made on public transport. I fully agree that it is not yet perfect and that it still needs a tooth, but progress has been made. Progress has been made in the construction sector. It's not perfect yet. There's got to be a little bit of a bit of a tooth at.... but progress has been made. Under the leadership of presidents of the VVD, progress has been made in how you can enter this house and how this can be done in the future. Mr President, I can go on for a while, but I don't think you'll be happy with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u75	Well, a lot of things make me happy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u76	You'll be glad of me, I hope, because I'm here all the time. I also have a question for the VVD. The emphasis is placed on the physical accessibility of buildings, while my conversations with people with disabilities show that security of existence is their main concern. It's about work and income. The VVD says: we do not believe in a makeable society. But in recent years the VVD has made laws and regulations in this house, which has not strengthened the position of these people. I would like to get a response to, for example, the destructive evaluation of the Participation Act. This concerns mainly VVD legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u77	First of all, I totally disagree with the fact that you frame me as someone who has only been concerned with physical accessibility. I have given a number of concrete examples. I also talked about the fact that people should appreciate each other for who they are and that you shouldn't limit people to that. I have also indicated that we are also concerned with digital accessibility. That is a specific subject that I have not heard from any of my colleagues. But I will answer your question in concrete terms. I would also like to point out that you do not agree with the views you have expressed. A majority in this Chamber has agreed to those laws, with the VVD taking the lead in some of those laws. As a VVDer, I still support these principles and I simply agree with that law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u78	This has been discussed extensively in Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u79	Finally, on employers. She says that we can't all settle it here, and she also mentions examples of employers who want to take steps. However, only a very small proportion of employers in the Netherlands employ people with disabilities. That's less than 10%. How does the VVD feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u80	I think this should go better. I agree with you. It is difficult, as you know, for smaller employers to fully implement this, but I have just given the example that SMEs-Netherlands are working on a number of physical access points. I think that there are still a lot of possibilities here, and that is what our Secretary of State has also indicated in the debate, and that it is quite possible to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u81	I would like to inform Mrs Laan that we are not in the process of framing here. That is the reproach that she is making towards some of my colleagues. We're in the middle of a debate here. I think it is very good to ask the VVD about the policy it has been in favour of for years, because precisely the policy of the VVD has made it worse for people with disabilities than a few years ago. The VVD should account for that. The income position, the labour market position, the facilities, health, the resources; it has all got worse, partly thanks to the VVD. My question is whether the VVD believes that people with disabilities should be able to travel under rail fare.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u82	I have just heard your question to my colleague. I'd like to hear the cabinet's response. I am looking behind the scenes at our precise position on this in the debate, in order to be consistent in that sense. We'd like to review your motion and then we'll see if we can go along with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u83	Thank you very much, Mrs Laan-Geselschap. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'm suspending the meeting for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u84	I give the floor to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport. I would also ask the Minister to respond very briefly to the questions raised. The MPs have spoken together about 38 minutes. It is customary for the cabinet to use half the speaking time, but no one keeps to it. So I'm being very strict today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u85	My experience is that you are not only very strict today! But I'm gonna do my best, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to congratulate the Chamber on this debate, because it was an initiative at the time by MP Sharon Dijksma, who supported it, to consider once a year the UN Convention and to actually discuss all the issues that affect the UN Convention once a year. I think it's really good to do that. I deal with a number of questions in my general introduction. I think that's the right thing to do in time. After that, I want answers by the block. I'll start with the block of municipalities. Then I'll do everything about transport, then about building and living, then participation and accessibility and then care and support. I think I can put the other questions together. Mr. Chairman. I have heard a great deal of impatience, urgency and ambition in the contribution of the Chamber. I've heard it's got to be faster: a little bit of a tooth. I understand that, too. It also does justice to the people who are involved, those two million people with disabilities, looking at them themselves. Many references have been made to the Alliance's shadow report. That same impatience comes out of it. Where the ratification of the UN Convention in 2016 was a nice step, a big step, a milestone as Mr Kerstens called it, with the aim of a more inclusive society, we realized at the time that it cannot be achieved at the push of a button. With the adoption of a treaty, we are not suddenly actually changing the situation and lives of people. We did want to choose the fastest way to that goal. The question is all the time: is this the fastest way or could we do more? Significant steps have been taken in many areas. I also think that everyone can see and acknowledge that. I think we'll come back to that in a more specific way. At the same time, the cabinet sees that we are far from there. This does not just have to do with laws, because laws do not give care or support and do not force an inclusive society. The real movement is made by people themselves, who are going to do other things than they did in the past; removing thresholds where they were before. When the cabinet looks at the situation, the cabinet sees that there is a strong movement in progress. Mrs Laan rightly referred to what is being done by business and what is being done by SMEs. If I compare that to a couple of years ago, that's so much more that that actually excites me. I hope you'll forgive me for being an optimistic person at all. At the same time, of course, we also see the alliance's shadow report. I understand that, too. In this way, Mr Van Ark will focus more on the issue of work and income; it is good to work together in this area. If a statistic is that more people with disabilities are at work and you belong to that group, you will say: "I do see a step forward. At first I couldn't get to work and now I can." But if you don't belong to that group, you'll say: there will be more people with disabilities at work, but that doesn't apply to me. That experience, that feeling for those people is a fact and is also a fact for us. So we have both things to look at: the search for objective indicators on the basis of which we measure on the good or less good, and at the same time the individual experience of people, whom we must value, must be taken into account and used as a fact for ourselves. That means that all the reports you have had, on the basis of which you are holding this debate, have a separate function. The progress report made by the cabinet is a progress report on all the actions we agreed with each other in this house in the framework of the programme Unlimited participation!, which you received in June. We had a debate on this last year. That's the program the cabinet started working on. On the basis of that programme, the Cabinet reported, not on the basis that at the end of this cabinet period the whole UN Convention became a reality, but on the basis of the question of which areas can take a step and how. In addition, you have the report of the College of Human Rights, also a report for the UN. In addition, you have the Alliance's shadow report. It is much more about how people feel about who it is. We'll just see there's a lot of work to do. We know that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u86	Actually, I'd like to know how far along you are. You had started with a general introduction, wasn't that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u87	Yes. I come now to the question I would like to put as a general question. I can answer that in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u88	A very short question, Mr. Renkema. Who was there before, anyway? Mr Renkema or Mr Segers?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u89	I guess I wasn't before, but I was faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u90	You're also closer to the interrupting microphone. Anyway, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u91	I was just trying to understand Minister. If I have listened to him carefully about the different reports, he says: in a lot of reports you see that things are actually better, but unfortunately people don't experience it that way. Did I sum up the Minister that well? Or isn't it true what I'm saying?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u92	You have summarized it a little briefly, and I think I have said it a little differently myself. I think I said: we have a UN treaty together, and we all know that this cannot be achieved at once, so that is why we have created a programme that we want to take steps in a number of areas. The cabinet has reported on these areas. We have made the best possible monitoring with all the data we would have, in order to show as objectively as possible whether steps are actually being taken. We did. I'm not going to recite that, because you know that fact sheet, of course. In addition, I would like to mention the following. Although the number of people with a disability at work may have increased, it may of course also be true that that does not apply to you if you are not part of that group. Although the number of people driving to and from a station that is accessible has risen considerably, that is not your experience when you live in a place that is not. In short, there is a difference between statistics and personal experience. That personal experience counts just as much, because in the end we have only done better when the people who are involved actually have the experience that we have a more accessible, inclusive society.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u93	Mr. Renkema, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u94	I was shocked by that shadow report and I am also a little shocked by the letter we received yesterday as a cabinet response to it, which we ourselves asked for as a committee. It states that we actually work with very good panels, but here we are only asking for the greatest obstacles that people experience and not for positive experiences. I think that's a bit of a defensive tone. Does the Minister agree with me that it is precisely this qualitative information, in which people themselves indicate how it is going, that is much more substantial than the statistics to which he refers?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u95	You say: much more substantial. I say side by side. You have to want to use them side by side. The statistics say something about the objectivated movement that is being made. But the experience that people have says something about how it feels to people about who it's about. I don't think it's one more important than the other. Both have their own role and function. The progress report and the monitoring of the programme we are doing are about the commitment that the cabinet has chosen for this cabinet period with the agreement of your Chamber and its effects, including the polite effects. It is with regard to the UN Convention as a whole that the Alliance puts its finger on the sore spot, namely that there is a lot of work to be done. Of course it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u96	I forgot to talk to you about the number of interruptions. I actually want to allow three interruptions in two. Six questions in a row, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u97	I will limit it to two questions in this round, Madam President. Progress has been made in areas. That is undoubtedly true. The Minister himself is also personally committed. I also follow him on Instagram, I see the visits and meetings, and I appreciate that. However, I find it complicated to say that there is cautious progress or a stable picture here and there. Isn't that very difficult to relate to the right you have to participate and the right you have in a full place? That carefully rising line and that stable image don't relate to people's rights, do they?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u98	That's right. When the UN Convention was ratified and the debate on it took place, it was a huge step forward for a reason. I think that's what it felt like for those 2 million people with disabilities, but that's how it felt in the Chamber too, Chamberwide. At the same time, it has been said that ratification of a treaty does not mean that it will be a reality tomorrow. Article 1 of the Constitution states that you must not discriminate. Unfortunately, there is a lot of discrimination. This is also the subject of lively social debates, and hence the legal supplement to Article 1 of the Constitution. Then you will say: yes, but it is a right not to be discriminated against. That's right. It is indeed a right not to be discriminated against. Yet we have two things to do with each other. One is: monitor with each other what the objectivated movement is, including in the perception of people, in relation to those different facets of the UN Convention. For example, the objectified experience is that the number of journeys to and from an accessible station has increased. I don't know who it was anymore, but someone pointed to Sven, who was really kicked off the train a few weeks ago and therefore really didn't feel like he was making a very accessible journey. That's outrageous. That's outrageous. In that case, his right shall not be respected. I think we have to do two things, namely, and get that movement going and keep it going and do it better every time and want to tell ourselves each time that objectified mirror, and also look in that other mirror, which is about the individual experiences of people themselves. We have both mirrors to use to do better.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u99	If you are entitled to participation and right to a full place, we should never rest in a carefully rising line and even a stable image here and there. Then it's really short. Then we need more urgency. But whatever we need is very clear targets. Those are really measurable goals, pathways and intermediate steps. Then we don't settle for a carefully rising line or a stable picture here and there, but then we have really hard targets. Then we say: boys, insofar as it lies in our capabilities and the possibilities of the Minister and the Secretary of State, we are moving towards a situation of a right to full participation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u100	I get that. I will come to that in a moment, because Mrs Bergkamp actually had a similar question. I would like to deal with these questions in this way in conjunction with each other. Maybe I can do that at once, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u101	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u102	There are a number of points where these steps, those targets and those targets already exist, for example when it comes to public transport. I will come back to that in a little bit more detail, because more questions have been asked about it. On a number of points, this is a little more difficult to do. First of all, we identified a number of themes in last year's programme. In it, we mentioned the indicators that we want to keep ourselves focused on. These are indicators that are simply available on the basis of research. Otherwise, you're gonna have to do new research for everything, and it's gonna take way too long for you to get a picture. If possible, we will use those indicators with zero and one measurement. That is what you now find in this numerical overview. We will supplement that numerical survey every time a new figure is found. Thus, the Chamber has an accurate mirror to control the cabinet and the cabinet has an accurate mirror to be engaged in itself. Two is that we all feel that way I also hear the Chamber of Commerce, as Mrs Van den Berg said, that there should be a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a tooth. Mrs Bergkamp said: go with the other departments and the Alliance with the shadow report under the arm to talk about what could be the next step and what could be done more. That is how I feel about the urgency as Mr Segers points out. I am very willing to do so, because I think that is my job, because I think that is my coordinating role. I'll get to that in a minute. So yes, I'm very willing to do that. I will inform you in the next report on what that next step has resulted in. Whether you can capture everything in target values, whether you can make everything into a climate law, just to draw it in parallel, I don't know. It is not possible, I repeat, for society is not, but you have to comply with the mandate of the UN Convention, which says: a gradual achievement. So you need to see it gradually gets better. At those points where that is not the case, either by standstill or by decline, you have to take a new and a firmer step.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u103	I agree with what Mr Segers said. He has answered a number of questions from me. One question remains with me. The Minister says in all his programmes: Grandma must notice, the nurse must notice, people with disabilities must also notice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u104	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u105	Well, we have the shadow report, which says we haven't noticed yet. You can look at it methodologically differently, but it is an important measure. Does the Minister think that, if there is another new shadow report, it should be a lot more positive than the shadow report that is now on the table? How could he give them hands and feet?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u106	I wholeheartedly agree with Mrs Bergkamp. When I say 'grandfather notice' in nursing care or care for the elderly, I say 'the Alliance must notice' here, I say 'Rick Brink must mark it as Minister of Disabled Affairs', so to speak. Everything we do and decide here is about its effect on people's lives. The point is that people's lives themselves are partly influenced and also influenced by legislation, for example, or by agreements that you can make here, and partly of course depends on many other factors. Take the economic crisis. Laws are important, but if you lose your job because of the economic crisis, those laws won't help you very much. That law, which I think Mr Van Ark will go into in a moment, or that approach where, if you don't have a job, you can start from your benefit with the safety net that you can get back into your benefit situation if you fail to switch easily is extremely meaningful. That does make the difference in people's lives. That is what we need to focus on. We have tried to get the figures available and actually say something on every line in the programme. But even so, I say: that's statistics. After statistics, people's lives are what people really experience. So that another report from the Alliance or a shadow report is going to show a little less shadow, I can't promise. I can agree with you on what my commitment is to be focused on that. I can also assure you that the figures contained in this programme are also trying to get a clear picture of the experience as far as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u107	I think that's kind of weird. We have a shadow report, which is not positive. People are getting worse in their perceptions. Again, you may have a difference of opinion about the methodology, but it is a very important report from people's practice. If there's going to be a new report, shouldn't it at least be more positive? The Minister states that he cannot promise this, because it depends on the context, the economy and personal factors. I understand that, but if we have a whole program, it should lead to a better outcome when it comes to how people experience it themselves and then it should lead to better shadow reporting. My question to the Minister is: how can he give these hands and feet so that we can grab and monitor this as a chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u108	I just want to take a few things apart. The shadow report is from the Alliance. This is an independent report, which deals with the level of implementation of the UN Convention. I can't influence that shadow report except along the path of how people feel and what their experiences are. Yes, we do. We can influence them in part. You have to be careful about that, but you can influence it in part. I would like to say to Mrs Bergkamp that we will do everything we can and that we will make every extra effort we can. I have also heard her question: talk to my fellow Members about this shadow report, about what we can do differently or better and about whether we can get a tooth on it. I'd be happy to. What I would also like to undertake, I can promise, because that is our own report.... is that we will objectify the experience figures as much as possible and put them in the picture, so that you can tell us a mirror and so that we can show ourselves a mirror to see if extra effort is needed or if it is going in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u109	Your third question, Mrs Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u110	If we put aside the Alliance's report and the Minister's programme, then my specific question to the Minister is: should people with disabilities in the Netherlands experience improvements in the coming period? That must be the ambition of this minister, apart from all the actions, programmes and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u111	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u112	A program can influence you as a department itself a little bit, but the experience of people is much more difficult; I realize that. But these two worlds have to come together, don't they?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u113	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u114	Surely the programme should lead to a positive shadow report and an improvement in practice? What else are we doing here?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u115	Absolutely. That's the bet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u116	Mrs. Van den Berg. Or was Mr. Hijink before? Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u117	I have a great deal of difficulty with how we are having the debate right now. I think we're really in two realities. We have the reality of the minister, with his beautiful PR, his beautiful pictures and his beautiful Twitter, and we have the reality of the people who are following this debate and who have noticed very little of all those beautiful plans that have been presented. It's not just in the shadow report. We can hear it in every debate: people with disabilities have fallen significantly in recent years, in terms of income, care and education, so on all fronts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u118	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u119	The question is: how does the Minister look back on that? At the same time as the UN Convention was discussed and ratified in this Chamber, the same cabinet has taken measures, including the Participation Act and the Decentralisations, which have put people at a disadvantage, contrary to the same treaty. How does he look at that? And what's he gonna do to improve that position?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u120	I have tried to explain as precisely as possible the differences in the functions and the production of the various reports. There's just a difference in function. I am sending you not only the programme, but also the report on what we do in the programme and the numerical monitor on a number of indicators that we can measure. I have also told you that it is logical that that is not automatically one-on-one the same as people's experience. Why not? If you're in the group with whom things went better, also according to the statistics, then so be it. But if you're not one of them, then you're not. I'm not saying that it's more important to keep an eye on things than the other one. I'm just saying, you have to want to look yourself in the eye in both mirrors. That's what we do. This is how it goes in the numerical overview of that programme. That gives us the indicators. If you want other indicators, I would like to hear a proposal for other indicators, but these were the best measurable ones, the best imaginable ones, which, of course, only describe a great deal of reality. That makes sense. At the same time, we have the shadow report that brings us to more urgency. And that makes sense, too. So that's what we're gonna do. If you say that the decentralisations that I had are in the block about the municipalities in general are a deterioration in the position of the people with disabilities, then I would not put it so generally. I see that at the time, in 2015, the Chamber made a conscious choice for the decentralisation, for example of youth care, but also for a number of WMO tasks, in addition to the WMO tasks that were already in the municipality. It was precisely in that that the intention was to be able to deliver more customization for people with disabilities. Again, that will be experienced by those who have succeeded in doing so. But very often it is not the case either. That's how it was about tools the other day. We had to put in a huge extra action to ensure that people were given their tools in time. That is where extra work is needed, and extra work to help the people who are dependent on a tool. Then that's what we're gonna do. But seeing the decentralisations in a general sense as something that has made people worse, I would not dare to do so, because I do not think it does justice to the reality, which is much more varied.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u121	I think it is very frustrating for many people, not only for me, but also for people who are following this debate, what is happening here, that the minister on those fronts is looking at what others should do. I appeal to the Minister about what has happened here in this Chamber, about the ratification of a treaty on which everyone is very enthusiastic. Mr Kerstens rightly says 'it is a milestone'. Then, at the same time, a dozen measures are taken which seriously harm the same target group. All these drawbacks don't make up for this government. That is my reproach to this minister. I don't want him to come up with any good examples. I don't want him pointing at anyone else. I want him to make it clear himself: what laws are we going to amend in order to improve people's income position? So what measures are we going to take to redress the benefits in the cost of care? What measures are we going to take to finally solve this mess that was caused by the devices? We can do that here, and I don't want the Minister pointing to others every time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u122	I really do not agree with Mr Hijink's presentation of how I try to do justice to that reality that often is more diverse than fits into one template. When it comes to decentralisation, that is not my point, but Mr Hijink's point of view, people have deteriorated. Then I say: we do see a lot of vulnerabilities in how access is sometimes regulated at the moment, in how resources sometimes work. Those vulnerabilities are something I'm making up for. That is where I have to steer, as in the case of youth care, where we have had that debate in detail too, and I am sending it to you. That's my part. By the way, it has been the Chamber's conscious choice to make the most immediate government responsible for those things that concern people, so that we can look for tailor-made solutions closer to home as well. Not everyone voted in favour of these laws, but a large majority of the Chamber did, as a conscious choice to be more tailor-made. The second is that there could be a discussion that is, I know, on the field of work and income. Mr Van Ark will deal with this in a moment. To Mr Van der Staaij's question whether we are working towards the gradual achievement of all these objectives in the UN Convention, my answer is yes. Do we have a monitor to set up that sets sharp mirrors, both from the factual as well as from the experience, sharp mirrors whether we're doing well enough? There you can see that some steps are being taken forward and some of them are still a lot of work to do. So that's what we're doing. In addition, finally, you mention the cost of care. We didn't put the subscription rate here together for nothing, did we? Doesn't that mean that for people with a pile-up of care costs, it's going to reduce the accumulation of care costs? Isn't that a good thing for those people who are dealing with a pile-up of care costs?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u123	Thirdly, Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u124	The Minister did not mention that a cut of nearly EUR 1 billion was introduced in the case of decentralisation. That has been cut very hard by all those people who need domestic help or other forms of guidance and support. Louis Asscher gets grey hairs from the Participation Act; he regrets as hairs on his head that this has ever been done in this way as a flat cut.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u125	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u126	I'm busy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u127	Yes, but you just have to ask your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u128	I don't think anyone else got cut off that fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u129	Also.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u130	I'm just working on my third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u131	Mr. Hijink, you really need to keep the question shorter. Really. That doesn't just apply to you, it applies to everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u132	What I want to know from this minister is how it could have happened that at the same time that the treaty has been ratified here because these people need to be helped forward, the same group has been put at a severe disadvantage through legislation. I want to know that from this minister and I want to know how he's going to turn that tide. It can't be just fine words. Not only can you ratify a treaty, but it must lead to legislation that will strengthen the position of these people. I don't see the beginning of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u133	So I do not share the conclusion that this legislation, which has been accompanied by decentralisation in a generic sense, has made people's position worse. I do see the vulnerabilities, and on all these vulnerabilities, I'm adjusting. That's one. Secondly, legislation comes into being here in this House and is accepted by a majority of the Chamber. It is then accepted by a majority of the Upper Chamber. Legislation does not come from the cabinet alone. Laws are made with each other, and I find that every law we have to have the conversation with each other. Does it help people with disabilities or not? And not just in this area. Let me make a bridge to the coordinating role of this minister vis-à-vis his colleagues. A number of questions have been asked, particularly from the D66 side. This is what I said in our previous debate, and that is how I still feel. The VWS Minister has a coordinating role to play in relation to the UN Convention, as my predecessor had already done in the drafting of the UN Convention. Next, the UN Convention should have its influence on all areas of life, the primary responsibility of which is assigned to one of my colleagues. When it comes to work and income, Mr Van Ark, when it comes to transport, is that Mr Van Veldhoven, when it comes to building and living, is that colleague Van Veldhoven and as colleague Ollongren, that colleague Ollongren is back. In all areas of life we have steps to take and those steps are in the portfolio of our colleagues. I have my colleagues to fire, you might say. I have my colleagues to keep sharp, such as Mr Oomen-Ruijten, and I say this by keeping your colleagues sharp. My colleagues are holding the debate with your colleagues on transport in the Committee on Transport and Transport and on building and living in the Committee on Building and Living.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u134	You repeat.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u135	The implementation of the UN Convention covers all areas of life.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u136	I just feel like I'm getting into a fight with everybody today. That is not the intention on the last day before Christmas, but it is really a matter of being brief and concise, both for Members of Parliament and for directors. You're afraid to ask any more questions, but Mr. Christmas does. Okay, Mr. Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u137	It seems as if the minister dismisses the shadow report as a collection of experiences of people who are unlucky enough to live in the wrong place in the Netherlands, not having a job or being sent from the locker to the wall when they need care or support. We can have a whole debate on this, but I will not. I do say that the image that comes out of the shadow report is widely shared in the Netherlands; widely in this Chamber, but perhaps not in the subject in which the minister stands, but still in the rest of the country. I wanted to ask him how he looks at the conclusion of the shadow report. As I have said in my contribution, this conclusion is that the current method consists of good intentions, fine words and "doing our best".
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u138	Okay, you already said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u139	That M.O. isn't helping. Is the Minister prepared not only to add a tooth, but also to change direction, less non-binding and more binding?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u140	First of all, your qualifications about my views on shadow reporting are not correct. I have said that the shadow report gives us a very sharp mirror from the experience of people themselves. That is what we are trying to do, as I have just said in the direction of Mrs Bergkamp. So that shadow report calls us to action. That is what I said about the shadow report. Then the conclusion of the shadow report. I share that we have some additional steps to take in a number of areas, that with this shadow report under my arm I will talk to colleagues again to see what we can do. That is how I heard Mrs Bergkamp's question. In that sense, I share the Alliance's conclusion and the shadow report. I think that conclusion should encourage us to work. That's exactly what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u141	Now the conclusion of the shadow report is that the current approach is not working. It says that there is a need for a different approach. Of course, that's not even going to do your best within the approach you've ever chosen, but really taking a different approach and forcing yourself to sit in it. I proposed ratifying the optional protocol. That's part of the other approach. Is the Minister prepared to do such things, or is he just saying that he is going to do even better, which is important, but not enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u142	I don't think you can read that shadow report as a disqualification from all those things that happen. In my view, you can read this shadow report mainly as the will to do more and to take faster steps to bring about the implementation of the UN Convention. There will be a number of points where there will be less non-committality. That's what you say and what the report says. Let us get out of the conversations with colleagues and see what we can do about it. I will return to ratification in a moment. We have work to do with each other. We already knew that and the shadow report very strongly underlines this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u143	I have no doubt about the Minister's personal involvement in this issue, but I am looking at the results. I find it odd that the Minister actually sees a positive trend in terms of work and income, but not the shadow report. I therefore wonder whether the same measure is being taken. Isn't the first question you need to discuss when something can be considered a positive outcome? Is the Minister prepared to enter into that conversation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u144	A few points. I think Mr Van Ark will be able to give the exact figures about people who have been helped to work. Secondly, of course, I am very willing to do so. The cabinet's proposal has not been amended by the Chamber. That is why I assumed that the House saw this proposal as well. It includes the set of indicators that belong to this programme and thus to the use of this cabinet during this cabinet period to ensure that people can participate indefinitely. I have already indicated that it is always speaking with two words. Those indicators, which depict the perception of people objectified, form one. In addition, you have the target group itself, the Alliance, which says what the feeling of its supporters is and what the state of affairs there is. Those two ways of looking are relevant to both of us. They are both a relevant mirror to check our work and to see where we have more work to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u145	But in both cases there should be either a positive trend or a negative trend. I find that hard to understand. The Minister refers to the indicators, which, of course, we received a brief overview of last week, but there are a lot of other actions that the Minister is also engaged in, for example the broad offensive towards work. I do not see in the indicators whether or not this has been launched and how actions have been taken. This could also explain the great difference between the shadow report and the Minister's measurements.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u146	We have created a set of indicators with preferably a zero and a one-measurement to get the most up-to-date picture of reality. Of course, there is always a certain limitation in terms of the research target group or, for example, because otherwise you will have to expand a lot of new research. If you compare different indicators, you can indeed get a different picture. It's possible. Personally, I think it is more important not to play wells-nothing games about different numbers next to each other, but to pull each other on the same side of the rope and make sure things get better. That's our job. If you would like another indicator to be included in that indicator overview as a supplement to keep your finger on the wrist, you are cordially invited to come up with suggestions. Then we'll see if we can give that shape and content. And not only for you, but for the entire Chamber, this chart is a summary of the monitor I sent to the Chamber earlier. I did not get a reaction to that in the sense: that should be different. So I used this figure table. If you say it could be better...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u147	That's what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u148	I am not so much concerned with what we in this Chamber see as results, but with what the people of the Alliance think about this. Is the Minister prepared to discuss with the Alliance what, in her opinion, are relevant measurements that are also going to lead to results?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u149	That was also Mrs Van den Berg's first question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u150	I'm gonna test that, but I think it's like this. The programme has a steering committee. All kinds of administrative parties are involved and the Alliance is involved in this. I therefore assume that the table of figures as we have done has been established as a relevant table of figures.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u151	But is that a yes or a no?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u152	I'm gonna test that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u153	So you'll come back to that? Because the question is very specific: are you prepared to start that conversation? Otherwise, this also counts as an interruption, and I do not think that is entirely fair.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u154	I'll get back to you. So I guess I did, but I'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u155	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u156	The Minister mentioned the word "gradually" a number of times, as was also stipulated. But does the Minister also see the risk that this "gradually" can lead to progress in practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u157	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u158	My follow-up question is: what else does he intend to do to prevent this, for example with regard to the requirements for new construction?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u159	I'll come back to that later in the block building and living. The colleague is working on it. A number of steps have already been taken in the adaptation of the Building Decision. That is what our colleague, Mr Knops, will come back to later, Mr Ollongren, in order to make sure that we take the next steps in that direction. I have heard Mr Bergkamp in such a way: go with that report from the Alliance under your arm and talk to the colleagues to see what the next step should be. I've actually tasted that urgency in the whole room. That seems to me to be a very practical interpretation of how to take the next step.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u160	It is a fact that in the Netherlands we have about 2 million people with disabilities. Many of them are unemployed, live in poverty and want to come along in a world that is actually made for people who can hear, who can walk and who simply live without resources. The minister says he needs more time and he has a set of figures and indicators. People sit at home but also here in the public gallery and feel unheard of; they feel discriminated against. That shadow report really gave a recommendation by article on how the minister, and the government in general, can improve the situation for the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u161	And the question is, Mrs. Van Kooten?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u162	I would like to hear from the Minister in detail whether he is going to sit down with all these organisations in the shadow report to look at each article where the policy can be better in practice and to set specific objectives, so that we can keep a very nice story in the next shadow report and congratulate the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u163	I told you how I'm gonna do that. The answer is, therefore, yes, in the form that I talk with the Alliance, with the shadow report of the Alliance under the arm, about those different areas of life, to see how we can actually take that next step. So the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u164	The Minister qualified shadow reporting as a collection of experiences and feelings, but I do have a question about some of the most important issues. It says that 24.6% of people with disabilities live in poverty, that the number of children unable to participate in school is 5.576 and that less than a quarter of the municipalities have so far drawn up an inclusion agenda. That seems to me all very concrete. These seem to me to be matters that the Minister should take up and provide for concrete policies. How can he qualify this as "experiences and feelings"?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u165	The role of shadow reporting is precisely to show how the target group experiences or improves. That is why I say that that is also the role and function of this report. In a number of places, this report indeed refers to numbers. I'm not going to go well-nothing about those numbers, because I think that the command that then speaks out of those numbers is an order that we have to work with. If it says that less than a quarter of municipalities have an inclusion agenda, I can say: no, that is 35%. But what does it matter? The task is to ensure that more municipalities start working on this inclusion agenda. In short, I think that is the most important way to follow up on this shadow report, namely that we are doing what this shadow report aims to do: incite action.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u166	That was a brief answer from the Minister, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u167	I hope he holds this line for the rest of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u168	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u169	The chairman has the bar even higher.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u170	However, I am disturbed by the approach and the removal of this shadow report as experiences and feelings. I noticed this very much in the interruption debate with Mr Hijink, in which it was said that decentralisation is certainly not the reason to go backwards; it is also feelings and experiences of individuals. But if the macro-budget for domestic aid is halved, if 90% of decentralisation has been removed, if the compensation for own risk has been abolished, if the macro-budget for income compensation and the WTCG has been halved, if many more medicines have to make their own payments and are to be paid as incontinence material themselves, can the Minister not say for this whole group of people who have to deal with it that it is an individual or a single case that suffers from decentralisation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u171	I have argued that you cannot say that with the decentralisation as such, not you, but a large, large majority of this Chamber voted in favour of it, the implementation of the UN Treaty has deteriorated. At the same time, I have also said to you: I see access on the part of municipalities and on the side of the tools, for example, that things are certainly not going well in all areas and that we do indeed have steps to take forward. I can explain to you in this way what steps I intend to take with municipalities on that point. But it concerns me about the generic qualification. I can't share that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u172	My question is, why not? If this decentralisation has been accompanied by such a large dismantling of the level of provision, such as in the areas of domestic aid and day-to-day spending, and has thus been accompanied by so many decisions which have been detrimental to income, think of the halved WTCG and of everything I have just mentioned, then surely you can't say: yes, but you can't say generically that people have gotten worse? Such colossal cuts have been made. So many facilities have been broken down. Then why does the Minister insist that it could not have led to generic malaise?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u173	Those income schemes that have been abolished are also subject to tailor-made schemes. I think Mr Van Ark will deal with that in a moment. In contrast to the financial contours associated with these decentralisations, new solutions have been chosen within municipalities to help people better. So I don't think you can give that generic qualification. At the same time, I also see that I agree with Mrs Agema on this point, that it is not going well in all respects and that we therefore have work to do to ensure that things are going well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u174	Your fourth question, Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u175	Yes, this is my fourth question, Mr. Chairman. I think it's total bullshit. Billions and billions have been cut. For this income support and the WTCG, it was also a billion. To abolish the compensation own risk and for all the medicines and the incontinence material that now has to be paid for, and you name it, these amounts are very large. The Minister says: but on the other hand, something is being compensated. Hundreds of euros are being taken away, but dimes are being returned. That's the affair. I really think that the Minister cannot stand here and insist that we should not draw generic conclusions if he does not even once identify exactly what has happened. Because if he thinks he's going to insist that you shouldn't draw generic conclusions about so many measures, I think we should draw them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u176	We'll just see how it goes on all those domains of life. That is what the indicators on which we have now, I think, exchanged enough. Again, I do not share the generic conclusion, but I do share the point that there is work to be done, because things are not going well on all fronts. In my view, that is the most important conclusion, also the most important conclusion of the Alliance, because it encourages us to take action.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u177	Maybe just one point of order. I'm putting a little pressure on it to keep it short and concise. That's always good anyway. But it also has to do with the fact that the sign interpreter can only be done until 1 p.m. It is nice if people know before then what the Minister and the Secretary of State, but also the Chamber, are going to do. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u178	An additional reason to hurry, although I have just seen you interpret rather nicely. Why is new legislation not being assessed under the UN Convention? However, new legislation is being assessed against the UN Convention because it always looks at how it relates to the standing right when it comes to legislation. Of course in the department, but that is also happening, and above all, at the Council of State. There is a test of the high law, as it is called. That is also international law. In this high law, the UN Convention on Handicap applies, just as the Constitution and the European acquis apply in the event of a legislative amendment. That's what the Council of State is testing. You can check that that has been done enough. The Chamber then questions the cabinet with the Council of State's report in hand. And that happens once again in two chambers, in which the First Chamber in particular has a specific role. In short, I really believe that the review of the UN Convention is already possible at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u179	Is this part finished with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u180	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u181	Then there is a brief question from Mr Renkema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u182	To what do we see that as a room? I do not see it in the explanatory statement. I often do not see it in the opinions of the Council of State either. Am I supposed to believe it's happening?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u183	It is the function, the role of the Council of State to test by higher law. If that test leads to a recommendation in the direction of the cabinet, it is in the opinion of the Council of State. You will then receive a further report from us on the legislative proposal. That further report contains the cabinet response to the opinion of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u184	"According to higher law" is a very generic ruling. With regard to new laws and regulations, I am really explicitly concerned about whether the department is looking at them and whether we can check them as MPs. Does the Council of State explicitly look at this? Just tick it off.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u185	There's a lot higher law. You have the Constitution, you have the European acquis and you have the international treaties you have to comply with. Yes, the Council of State has the right to review. That is deliberately a generic, broad test. If it gives rise to advice in the direction of the Cabinet, please note that if this is not possible in relation to the UN Convention, then that will also be the advice of the Council of State, I can accept, and the Cabinet will also be questioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u186	I have a very simple question. When a new law comes to the Chamber, the explanatory statement always states exactly what the consequences are for the regulatory burden, the burden burden, for people and businesses. Then it's very clear between you what the consequences are. Wouldn't it be convenient and good if every law also had a "what are the consequences of this law for people with disabilities?" Would you stand up?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u187	In any case, it would be very good if we were to ask ourselves that question every time, every law, and then not only on the side of the cabinet, but also on the side of the Chamber. You are actually asking whether it would be helpful in asking that question to further classify it. If I raise this question with my colleagues in the Interior and Justice Department, the answer will be: yes, but how many more tests will we get? Are we quite sure that this is the test we want to add or are we going to take a test every time in all the other European and international treaties in every law that comes before us? So I would like to make this suggestion under my arm with my colleague, but I do not want to anticipate what we can do about it. I am prepared to enter into that conversation, but I do not want to anticipate what we can do in it, because this will, of course, set a precedent for all kinds of other international conventions to which you should like to test. In general terms, the Council of State is always examining the higher law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u188	In order not to allow Mr Hijink to make all his interruptions, I ask: will the Chamber receive the information about this, once that discussion has taken place?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u189	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u190	And when? That is also a question from Mr Hijink which I do not regard as interrupting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u191	That's when I had that conversation. Early next year, I assume. Mr President, that was the question of the review. I think I've had all the other questions. No, there is another question from Mrs Van den Berg. It's about following a small group of people with disabilities to see what they're up against. I get it. I get it. I get it. In fact, I find it useful in everything to use expertise, both on the policy-making side and on the assessment side where it lands with the people who it concerns. I know that we are working on client panels in many places to see what the measure is for the people for whom it is intended. That's good. You're actually asking to find a group where you can do that more generically. I think that's quite difficult, because that depends on what type of limitation you have and on what areas of life you run into against those limitations, those thresholds. If you give me a little space in how to do that, I would actually like to take your question back. The answer to the question "do you want to do it?" is yes. But about how I want to think for a second.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u192	Will we then receive a letter from the Minister on how he intends to do so, so that we can respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u193	Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u194	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u195	Those were the general questions. Then I'd like to go by the block. I'll start on the side of the municipalities. A number of parties have rightly noted that the number of municipalities that have an inclusion agenda is not yet 100%; far from it, it is 35%. This also means that a lot of municipalities really still have work to do. That's what's gonna happen. We're working on a group of frontrunners who really set the example. It can set an example, but that is not enough either. So I see there's work to be done. I'm talking to the VNG about what could happen at that point. I think it is very positive that the VNG is talking to a group of municipalities and the Alliance about improving access to care. That is an important part of what people with disabilities run into. In the short term, we want to have an agenda for access. In addition, a hand-out was made on how municipalities can gradually work towards an inclusive approach. A conference has been organized in which a lot of municipalities were present, but we are not there yet. I just said to Mrs Bergkamp that we should discuss the shadow report under the arm with municipalities. I would also like to do so on this point, because the number of municipalities that have a local inclusion agenda will indeed have to increase. I would like to discuss this with the VNG and individual municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u196	Have all the questions relating to the municipalities been answered?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u197	One more question, from Mrs Van den Berg, who talked about the fact that if you ratify a treaty, you as a State have the obligation. I believe that Mrs van den Berg used that word in favour of municipalities. That's true. The State has the obligation, hence our national programmatic approach. But what is equally true is that you have passed a number of laws in the Chamber that designate municipalities as first responsible for a number of domains. Especially in the social domain, the municipality is the first government. That's true, too. In view of this fact, we have as good as possible to honour the implementation of the Treaty. This obligation rests on the Empire, but with the Chamber we have decided that municipalities are primarily responsible for a number of tasks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u198	I'll go first to Mrs. Laan-Selship.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u199	For a moment, I am concerned about some kind of images and words that need to be brought together. In the notes, the word "headrunners" always comes to mind in municipalities. I've gone into that once, and it turns out it's not people who are "head-on" but people who are excited about something. In the long term, could the Minister indicate what the actual leaders of the municipalities are doing well?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u200	A specific question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u201	Yeah, I'd like that. I know what you're saying. At the same time, I think that enthusiasm is needed to get this movement going. I therefore believe in such a pioneering approach, but I also understand that you want to see the real 'head-and-shoulder-top' examples in the window. I'd like to work on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u202	The Minister has just said that he is talking to the VNG, for example, but the VNG cannot bind its members. Furthermore, the Minister states that the government has a responsibility in this area under state law. Is the Minister prepared, if he does not see sufficient progress, to take other measures, as we have done, for example, with youth care and with medical devices?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u203	I don't really know what other measures you're thinking. That obligation is already in the law. We have city councils that oversee what classes do. We have a VNG, as a branch organisation of the municipalities, which can indeed help, support and appeal to its municipalities. We can do that, and we will. We have a state government that does hang out with municipalities. We do so in many areas, for example when it comes to loneliness and youth care. In fact, all the domains of my portfolio are at least a municipal component. There is absolutely no question of getting together, but that is what you do as co-governments. The Court itself has made the legislation conscious so that municipalities have been designated as the first to be responsible. When it comes to job neglect, if you want to use that heavy term, of course, that is another story, because on that basis you can take administrative steps. But with that, you can't force local inclusion. It just doesn't work that way. What you need to do is to get churches moving. That happens and it does, but not soon enough and not yet with everyone. I'd like to get to work on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u204	I came to the chair because I get the signal that some people with wheelchairs would very much like to attend the debate here, but that they cannot go in. My request is whether a sleeve can be adjusted to that. My question to the Minister is based on Mrs Van den Berg's question. I have said that, in my opinion, this non-binding should be removed, even when it comes to the inclusion agenda. In fact, I said that municipalities must make such an agenda, say what must be in it, when it must be in it, and say that they must really involve people in it. I have just heard the Minister say that we have put things in the municipalities for a reason and that he can intervene if they really neglect their task. But I think there's a lot in there. To contact the Minister: when does he draw the conclusion that municipalities are not doing this well? How many talk sessions does he want to share, how many good examples does he want to share, how many frontrunners he wants to look for who are excited, before he says, "Guys, I am ultimately the final responsibility here. We all have to do it, but I'm the final responsibility. And it's not going well. Maybe I'm going to help you in a less friendly way... a little bit to do what we've all agreed upon and what the people are entitled to."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u205	I'm gonna say something in all precision. In this case, there is precisely a legal obligation to have a local inclusion agenda. That's one. Two is: you have an agenda, but that did not immediately change reality, not even in municipalities. So we need to do a few things. One is: we have to make sure that municipalities actually work on inclusion. This is happening, in many ways, and I am going to add the same tooth that Mrs Bergkamp also proposes for other departments, with that shadow report from the Alliance under the arm. On a very specific point, when it comes to access, that has already been done. The municipalities come up with an agenda to improve access to care. So I think we shouldn't pretend that no steps are being taken in town. Three is: is that enough? No, we will still have a lot of additional support for the municipalities in many ways. Four is: municipalities also have municipal councils, in which Mr.Kerstens' colleagues are also present. They can also keep the colleagues sharp. So we all have a role to play. I think, above all, that it is on the part of supporting municipalities that they are doing what may be expected of them. I honestly do not believe in things like "one more fist on the table" or threaten to neglect a job. It doesn't give you a more inclusive society. Then you get a piece of paper that can actually be ticked off. But no one has been helped with a restriction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u206	I cycled for a long time. On the wording that the Minister repeats a few times, "a little bit of a tooth," I say: if you're cycling in the wrong direction, you won't get to where you're going if you're going to ride faster. I'll tell you in advance. In a previous interruption of mine, the Minister indicated that he would like to talk to his colleagues about whether or not it should be changed, or whether it should be more compelling. How do you imagine that with regard to municipalities, which undoubtedly have good intentions and undoubtedly do their best, but which do not arrive at that destination? How do you imagine that trajectory?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u207	It really depends on the subject of how I deal with it. I have indeed indicated to the youth services: I want to add to that. Anyway, there are also people with disabilities in childhood care. So in the case of youth care, I did say 'I want to amend that' because I think that the most complex concern is actually in quality and continuity at risk on a number of points. So I do want to add to that. In this case, it is about the obligation to come up with an inclusion agenda. So it is not a non-binding amendment; Mr Van der Staaij's amendment and Mrs Bergkamp's amendment is a very serious one, and the law counts. In every church, the law counts. And so every municipality has to create an inclusion agenda. So, of course, I'm having that conversation, with the Alliance's shadow report under the arm, with municipalities. I'm not going to have that conversation just now; we've been doing that for a while. For example, this has led us to say about the municipalities: we are going to adopt a leading approach and we are going to make sure that we support municipalities much better. We do this with a hand-off and all kinds of things to support municipalities much better. This has led to municipalities saying: we really need to work together to improve that access. It is precisely on the basis of the experience of the Alliance that we need to improve access to care. That's all the ways I'm gonna do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u208	Let's get to the point. Do I understand the Minister so well that he says: yes, I am going to actively appeal to these municipalities to comply with the legal obligation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u209	Of course, of course. And I'm going to support them to meet that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u210	I heard support for the word; that is fine and that is also important. But on that first point, I don't think I get back until now that municipalities say: well, we're regularly getting pissed off by "Watch it, you've got to get on with this". Hence the question. I think there's a little bit of a tooth for that, too. The active appeal of municipalities to that legal obligation could really help.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u211	Sure, so I do. Then I guess I've had the block of municipalities with this. Then I want to look at the block of public transport. The Group of the Party of European Socialists has said: why does the government not force the acceleration of access to public transport? This has actually been made very concrete at the time: the step-by-step improvement in the accessibility of public transport. The government has taken all kinds of measures; for example, the Future Image OV 2040 was also discussed here. It was agreed with public authorities and transport operators to aim for fully accessible public transport by 2040. There is a station accessibility programme, making all stations accessible. It's also funded by the Empire. In total, it is an investment of more than 600 million to 2030. The NS is in the lead there by the way. There is also regulation on accessibility for public transport. Then I come to Mr Segers' question. He said: wouldn't you like to set a sort of minimum threshold in all tenders, which is about accessibility? At present, all carriers are already subject to the same minimum requirements as regards accessibility, travel assistance and guidance. These requirements are laid down in European legislation and Dutch legislation. They are included in the Decision on access to public transport. These requirements now also count in a tender. The NS currently offers more than what it is required to do on the basis of those minimum requirements. There's always a difference. In the coming period, it is precisely local authorities, transport operators and experience experts who are looking at the renewal of national regulations, because it is known that experience experts do not make sense everywhere when there is a difference between regional and rural transport. The D66 Group asked if the Minister could discuss the guidelines for disability parking cards with the VNG, also with a view to providing proper information. I understand that the central purchasing agency of municipalities together with the RDW is in good consultation with We Staan Op! to build an app on disabled parking cards, which provides information across the board in a clear, available and accessible way. I think this is a very big step forward. We've already got a local council working on it. I understand that the municipality of Alphen aan den Rijn has already started to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u212	Are you done with this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u213	I have a few more transport questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u214	Then I would like to finish it first and then Mrs Bergkamp will have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u215	The aid dog must have access to all vehicles, including the aircraft. That is true, because the rules adopted in the context of the ratification of the UN Convention say that the admission of assistance dogs is a reasonable adjustment. That also applies to the air transport sector. You have received a signal that this is not the case. I have to check with my fellow Member, Mr Tugendhat, that has not been possible in the suspension of the action which was taken at that time. The principle that the legal obligation is there, I fully share. Mr President, then this was the transport.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u216	About the parking conditions in the municipalities. Policy freedom is fine, but clarity is important. It's a good thing there's an initiative for an app, but not everyone gets along with an app. I think it is also important that the municipality's website contains clear information about the costs and where it is and where it is not regulated. So I hope that the Minister can also explicitly include that point in his discussion with the VNG. Mrs Agema asked a question about aircraft and assistance dogs. I asked written questions about this a while ago. Apparently there are differences between airlines, so it is not quite clear yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u217	I am happy to take this with me, at least together with Mr Van Veldhoven, because she is discussing this with the VNG.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u218	I have not heard the Minister about my questions regarding the mileage limit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u219	We have had that debate quite often. Excuse me, I thought you were going to make a motion, so I thought I'd wait for the motion. We have had this debate on a regular basis, in which Mrs Agema initially said that there is an underexhaustment on Valy's transport. It was. Then Mrs Agema said: can we not do it in such a way that we raise the mileage limit, which is 600, in such a way that at least there is no underexhaustibility anymore. I've provided for that. Then Mrs Agema said: I do not think it should be limited at all. At that time I said that it would have a financial consequence if it were not limited and that the budget did not provide for this. I can't just take care of that. What I can do is to adjust the scheme so that I organise the maximum exhaustion of the budget in the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u220	I found that underexhaustment a nice side effect, but of course it is totally irrelevant. The point I make is that people with disabilities who use Valys transport should be able to travel at the same rate as people without restrictions. I ask the Minister if he agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u221	Of course, people need Valy's transport, because they depend on Valy's transport. That's what you're trying to accommodate as much as you can. A number of people are allocated a higher mileage budget. Those are the people who, given their limitations, cannot, not in part, travel by public transport. They get a high horsepower of 2,350 kilometers. Indeed, the rest is the 700 kilometers. That also has to do with what is in the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u222	Finally, Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u223	The Minister is still not responding to my question and my proposal. The point is that people with disabilities have a limit on the number of kilometres they are allowed to travel at train fare. Up there, they pay five times as much. I find that unfair. We in this room can all travel wherever we want, except that gentleman over there, from Back to the woods. He's got a limit. The same applies to people in the public gallery. That's impossible, isn't it? We are not living in a time when we ratify treaties, but when you have a limit, you are limited in the number of kilometres you are allowed to travel at train fare? We can't keep doing that at this time: we can, but the gentleman in the wheelchair isn't?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u224	Of course, you are also trying to accommodate this in the form of an arrangement. Of course, I share the principle that you want to eliminate the restriction of mobility as much as possible. For people who can still use public transport in part, this is 700 kilometres. There is a very different limit for people who cannot use public transport either: the 2.350. But, of course, you do so within the room that the budget provides. The room that the budget offers is 64 million. I'll try to stay in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u225	That's what you said. I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u226	Then I guess I've had the block of transportation with that. I'm going to build and live. The SP asked why the Building Decision has not been amended. The Building Decision has been modified. In June 2019, the Minister also informed the Chamber that the building regulations will be adapted for people with disabilities. These include access to buildings and stairs. The CDA Group's question was whether there would be provision for hearing impaired persons in all publicly accessible buildings. Research indeed shows that what people with auditory limitations encounter is often communicative in nature. It is about the presence of ring pipes, material use and clothing. For buildings it is of course the owner who stands at the bar to make the necessary facilities or make adjustments. There are a lot of owners of public buildings. These are sometimes governments, but very often they are private owners. It is important to be sufficiently aware. So we need to make people aware of that. There the Empire itself has a job to do. The VNG has a job there and the Netherlands has a job there. Along that road we try to inform the owners as much as possible. BZK also works on this theme as the owner of all state offices. For example, all state offices were extensively examined in 2017. This showed that the state offices comply with the legal framework, but also that a number of adjustments still need to be made. We also try to get our own homework in order when it comes to buildings of which we own. The PvdA group also had a question about the conversion. Why is it not required to make them accessible? I believe that the Committee on the Rules of Procedure has recently been informed of this and that the Committee on the Rules of Procedure has also had a debate on it with my colleague in the Interior. So let us not repeat that debate. That was November 20th. The approximation of laws and regulations of...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u227	I was not talking about the renovation of the Chamber, but about the Construction Decision in general in the areas of conversion, renovation and new construction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u228	Exactly. The decision that has been taken is indeed about new construction. It was about the question: why not make the same demands on cultivation? That has something to do with it, and I am speaking here on behalf of my colleague in the Home Office, who says that such a building decision always weighs different interests, including the interests of an owner, who, for example, must keep his shop profitable. In any case, the starting point is that accessibility should not be reduced in the case of cultivation. That's very important. We have to do everything we can to point this out and seduce people, because that group of 2 million people with disabilities are potentially also 2 million customers for their shop. It is therefore very useful to make your store more and more accessible. Accessibility in this area is being developed through the VNG and SME Netherlands. So something is happening, but adapting the Building Decision in such a way that the same requirements apply to conversion as new construction really requires a balance of interest which, once again, has been discussed in the consultations that have taken place.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u229	Have all the questions been answered with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u230	I've got another one. Mrs Agema is asking very specifically what is going on in the area of housing. What happens when it comes to new construction? A number of steps have been taken in the Housing Agenda discussed with your Chamber by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. For example, we are talking about the innovation programme for longer stays at home and the inclusive neighbourhood. It is about the generic approach of the Housing Agenda, with housing deals and regional deals, with the Minister for Housing also increasing the housing offer for people with disabilities. For this purpose, the last budget has been allocated a considerable amount of extra money. In the context of living longer at home you also need new intermediate forms between living and care; hence this Taskforce Living & Care, the incentive scheme and the support program we do with municipalities. In short, we do in many ways what should help to reserve sufficient living space for people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u231	I'll come back to the Minister's story about the renovation. He says we talked about the renovation here in the house. Apparently so. There's a lot of people working on it. But based on the sounds I hear, "it's under the attention of the renovation" doesn't tell me enough. As a joke, I have just said that the office of civil servants is not accessible from this room to disabled staff from all ministries. Well, then it could be under attention, but that doesn't change anything. It's a building of our own. It's our own responsibility. That brings me to the crux of my question: do we, as a government, do what we could do? Will this building be accessible to 2 million Dutch people in all ways? They too are just as much part of this democracy as anyone else.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u232	A very good point, but just to clear up a misunderstanding: Mr Kerstens did not ask about the renovation of this beautiful house, but about the renovation of the Building Decision. That was that answer. I didn't mention the renovation. I can assume that the renovation is just looking at state-of-the-art accessibility requirements. I can really take that. Especially this house should be the most accessible house in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u233	Mrs Laan-Geselschap, your comment is widely shared. This is certainly taken into account in the discussion about the renovation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u234	That's good to hear, because I know you're very much involved in that personally, but I can't help but overhear that one clumsy fact, that you can't get from here to that little room 15 meters away. If we see that with each other, I am concerned about how we are going to do it here in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u235	Yes. I understand that there are also people who cannot be here in the public gallery. I understand that from Mrs Bergkamp and also from Mr Kerstens. I understand there are only a limited number of wheelchair spaces available. I apologize again for that. I hope that we will deal with this differently in the future. It is exactly as you say: we have an example in it. I hope it's better next time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u236	I have a question for the Minister about building and living. Did I just hear the Minister say it's a balancing of interests? I thought he was using that word. If so, how does that relate to the fact that living is a human right for everyone? That is actually what we agreed in that treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u237	Sure. Living is for sure. I did mention the word "interest balancing." When you come to an adaptation of the Building Decision and the Building Decision becomes the right of everyone, that does indeed mean that you impose a legal obligation on all owners of buildings. For new construction, a number of changes have been introduced in the Building Decision which relate to accessibility. The assessment has been made that this might make this new building more expensive, which will be so..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In the case of remodeling, you must also keep an eye on proportionality and keep an eye on the interests of owners. They can of course say: yes, but if I am obliged to make all kinds of extra demands or something, I can no longer pay for my renovation. It could be. So I am not saying that you should not do so, but I would point out that it is logical that the various interests should be taken into account when amending the Building Decision. In the end, this balance of interests can also be made here in the Chamber, because here in the Chamber it is decided whether or not to amend the Building Decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u238	Then I would also like to know how far you are to answer the questions. There has been a lot of interruptions and you have been able to answer a lot of questions during the interruptions, but there may be other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u239	Yeah, exactly. If I let go of the iron block layout and really just do the questions, I think I have another question or six or something. Shall we do it like this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u240	Well, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u241	People with disabilities who do not have a GP have been asked for. Following that message, I instructed the NZa at the end of August to investigate the signs of decreasing access to medical-generalistic care, such as general practitioners. I also entered into the conversation with both the family doctor's association and the VGN, to see how this can be done and how we can strengthen that accessibility. This affects not only the VGN, but also ActiZ, because it also plays a role in the small-scale provision of care for the elderly. The results of this study will be published at the beginning of 2020. I would like to send a letter to the Chamber as soon as possible, perhaps just before Christmas or just after Christmas, about what I am doing at this point. I am also concerned if, in particular, general practitioners are no longer accessible in these small-scale facilities, because that would indeed be seriously inadequate for people with disabilities. The ministries themselves must also give good examples. That was a question from Mrs Laan. I share that very much. This is true, for example, when it comes to the employment agreement, which Mr Van Ark is very busy working on, but this is certainly true also when it comes to the Rijksbouwbouwdienst. The BZK colleague is working very hard on this. I have also indicated myself that I really want to see in my own department and want to hear back what it's like. It's a pretty big tent. It's a pretty big place to work with us if you have a limit. I do not mean that the thresholds have been sufficiently removed, so physical accessibility. That's not what I'm talking about. I want to know if it's nice working with us for people with disabilities. Do people feel at home? So I like to take on that challenge. I would like that to come back to her, too, I say to Mrs Laan. Then I have the question of the SGP about the interpretative statement made by Article 10 of the UN Convention, which deals with the right to life. We make no reservation with that interpretative statement, but we explain how we interpret that provision of the Treaty. In ratifying the UN Convention, the government made a number of interpretative statements, including Article 10, which takes into account the protection of life. The Children's Rights Convention, the ECHR, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights also have a right to life. Moreover, this interpretative declaration was not made in these treaties. The lecture is critical of that. At the time, the government felt it necessary to explain because the text of the UN Convention provision deviates from the text in other provisions and leaves room for interpretation of the Convention. In order to make sure that there is no misunderstanding about the scope of what has been ratified, the explanation, as we explain to him, was also put forward by the cabinet in the light of other treaties and national legislation. Perhaps I should add that in its report to the Convention Committee, the College of Human Rights has also indicated that there are no concerns in terms of the right to life. It is therefore not so much a critical assessment of compliance with the provision, but a critical assessment of why this one treaty did give that interpretative explanation and not the other. I have just explained that. That's because it's about different formulations. Then it was about the TogetherPlayAccording and measurable ambitions. I find it difficult to set separate objectives. It has been the initiative of the initiators. If we were to say that there should be separate objectives and that we are going to monitor them, I do not know if that is the most exciting approach. I think it's good to hear back if anything changes there. So I would like to talk to the initiators to see how they can picture whether something is actually changing. To reassure you, the VNG is one of the participating parties, so the municipalities, which are actually the main contractor of the job, are also participating. I'd like to direct that question and come back to how we could do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u242	I'm glad that this TogetherPlayAccording came about, but it's also with quite a lot of attention, of course.I'm just saying: bombabarie was brought. Then you also want to know at some point whether this leads to more co-playing spots, where children with disabilities can play with each other. I'm considering a motion on this because I think it's important to monitor. I have also asked written questions about this before. Then I didn't get a grip on whether we have a better score compared to a few years ago, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u243	I am, of course, waiting for your motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u244	It was just about Article 10. I do not want to come back to that legal point, but I had also raised a practical question in connection with the shadow report. I do not know whether the Minister will come back to that or whether I will have to repeat it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u245	Would you mind doing that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u246	There is a recommendation in the shadow report that prenatal screening should provide accessible information for pregnant women, stating that having a limitation in itself does not say anything about experienced quality of life. My question was: what is the response to that recommendation? I thought that was quite a sympathetic proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u247	I can imagine. I don't really understand why that question isn't in the pile.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u248	Perhaps you could come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u249	Is that okay with you? The briefest answer is that this is, of course, taken into account in information. That's the shortest answer. I will return to it in the second period with a more precise text.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u250	Or I could make another proposal. Yesterday, in a debate, it was also about prenatal screening. The Chamber will receive further information on this matter. Could this element be included in the letter already announced? Can we reflect on this concrete recommendation from the shadow report?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u251	That's an integral thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u252	So you're admitting it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u253	Yeah, that'd be fine. Do people with disabilities explicitly return to the contour note? Yeah, a lot of attention is paid to that. That is necessary, because it is about how we keep care manageable in the future. That is the key question of the contour note. That is certainly also about caring for people with disabilities. There is an increasing demand for care and a tight labour market. All aspects of care have to do with this combination, including disability care or care for people with disabilities. Are the BES islands also supported? Yes. I think that was a question from Gert-Jan Segers. Mr Blokhuis is the first contact point on VWS for all the themes that affect the BES islands. For example, the Secretary of State for VWS included the UN Disability Convention in the cooperation agreement with Bonaire. We're offering support. But at the same time, we will also have to realize that it is small steps that you take. Mr Kerstens of the PvdA asked about the possibility of lodging a complaint with the Convention Committee. This is about the ratification of optional protocols. We have talked about this a number of times before. I did so both in the First and Second Chambers. I said at the time that the Foreign Minister was going to inform you. He did. In September 2019 he informed the Chamber about this. For the time being, we have decided to maintain the ratification procedure of the IVESCR Protocol and the procedure for signing the other two protocols. We do this because we want to better identify the financial and organisational consequences of this. They're not that easy to oversee. What is also important is that there is currently an evaluation from the UN of the system of monitoring bodies under a number of international conventions. That too was a reason for Mr Blok to inform your Chamber and to say: we need to keep that up for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u254	Did you answer all the questions with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u255	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u256	Mrs Van den Berg, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u257	In between, the minister briefly mentioned the reaction to the BES islands, Bonaire, Sint-Eustatius and Saba. He said that Mr Blokhuis took that. But I think that is very short, so I was wondering if the Minister would report on that further.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u258	I can only ask Mr Blokhuis to report on this further. I have indicated that it is included in the cooperation agreement with Bonaire and that it is always about small steps. It's really not comparable to here. For example, there is no public transport. Then it is not so easy to impose public transport requirements. There are really big differences. They make sense for you to take small steps, but you have to take those steps. Mr Van Ark is also very intensively concerned with the BES islands when it comes to the income position. Of course, that also helps people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u259	I did indeed ask to open up the possibility for people to complain to the UN Committee. The minister says we're going to study on that. I hear him say that this is linked, among other things, to possible organisational complexity. But it can't be that they stand in the way of giving people the right to complain if it doesn't go well with the treaty, which we have ratified ourselves and to which we feel bound.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u260	Sure. But we also believe that we are bound to achieve this gradually. If you have such an individual right of complaint, then you should be able to see what its implications might be. It's necessary to let that work well on you. The second reason I have indicated is that the functioning of the supervisory bodies under the international conventions is currently being evaluated at the UN. Does that actually work well right now? That, too, was a reason for Mr Blok, in this case for the cabinet, to say that it might be good to wait for that evaluation first and to have the implications well on the retina when you actually ratify that right of complaint.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u261	It is clear that I think that we should ratify it already. My question to the Minister is: how long will it take before that homework is done? I would just add a question to that which I have asked and which has not yet been answered. I also advocated tightening up the decision on general accessibility. Would the Minister be able to comment on that as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u262	A letter was sent on September 2nd. I believe that it has been said that this will come back to this in 2020. I can check that; that we will come back to that in 2020, or that the evaluation will be carried out in 2020. So we will, of course, inform you of this. But once again, it is really important that we bear in mind its implications before we proceed to ratification. I would like to emphasise that the UN Convention is an incredible milestone. We have an incredible amount of work to do. There are also a lot of opportunities to submit complaints and help everyone if things don't go well. So let us not pretend that a direct complaint right based on the UN protocol in Geneva would suddenly bring the implementation of that UN treaty closer. We shouldn't look at it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u263	Mrs. Laan-Geselschap, you had... That is the disadvantage of asking a lot of questions, because then the Minister can get away with it a little easily. What was your question? Just repeat the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u264	The general accessibility. Is it okay if I come back to that in the second term? Because it's not in the set.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u265	Okay, then the Minister remembered that very well. Mrs. Laan-Geselschap.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u266	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think the Minister was at the end of his reply. I had asked specific questions about the web guidelines and digital accessibility, specifically in healthcare institutions, and how the minister will plug it into business, so that everything becomes accessible to everyone, also digitally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u267	Yes. Excuse me. In an attempt to hurry up those cubes and recompense them, I think I went too fast. The question of introducing the Digital Accessibility Directive also in the private sector. Public authorities are legally obliged to make their websites accessible and improve their mobile apps. Last year the Temporary Decision digital accessibility government came into force. Next year the obligation will apply to all websites and also to mobile apps in June 2021. So that's the government side. The European Accessibility Act mentions several private digital goods and services by name which, if placed on the market after 28 June 2025, must comply with accessibility requirements. SMEs Accessibility and Stichting Accessibility aim to successfully implement the accessibility act in five years' time. This means that companies will have an inclusive website in five years' time. Soon a project will start in which a free evencan for websites to measure accessibility will be greatly developed to help companies on their way to an accessible site.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u268	In five years time the world will look very different and we will all be in a very different place again, but a lot of older people who are now 65, 70 or 75 will still be in the same phase of their lives. I think five years is too long. Is there any possibility that this Minister could, in the same way as a number of colleagues, give this part a concrete acceleration, or his colleague who is in the process of asking to speed it up?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u269	I think I should take this as one of those topics on which we look at what the next steps might be.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u270	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment. In the meantime, a new gesture interpreter has arrived, so the debate is properly transferred to the people sitting in the public gallery. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u271	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You asked me to be brief and concise. I will, of course, comply with that, but I would like to use a few words that I used earlier in a debate on social employment: please feel the interest in the subject and the importance of the subject inversely proportional to the number of words I will say. I dare to say that because we had the opportunity to consider the evaluation of the SCP of the Participation Act during the budgetary examination of SZW, the Chamber has also asked for a separate debate and we will soon be discussing the broad offensive; there are also plans to proceed with the Participation Act and there is still the Wajong treatment in the First Chamber. I dare do so this way. I would like to begin by thanking the Chamber for the invitation to be present at this debate. Mr De Jonge, as a coordinating director, is truly exciting and enthusiastic for his colleagues. I can report that from my own experience. I can also tell you that the importance of the rights of people with disabilities, in terms of the Convention, of people with disabilities, is widely shared in the Cabinet, including by the other colleagues whose subjects have been dealt with but who are not here. An important theme is work; work that is so much more than the amount you get in your account at the end of the month. Mr Renkema said it very well, and Mrs Van den Berg devoted almost her entire speech to it. Indeed, work for me, but certainly for the people in the target group, is an incredibly important theme when we look at the rights of people with disabilities. Within the framework of the action programme Unlimited participation! Four lines of action have been identified for this subject: broad offensive, employers' services, workers' services and the improvement of work facilities. Policy has been deployed in all these areas, as is also stated in the progress report of the Work Action Plan which went to the Chamber in June. That does not alter the fact that I realize that much remains to be done. That is what I am saying in the same vein as Mrs Van den Berg. Much remains to be done, and we must do so with all the parties involved. First, with people themselves, with employers, employees, municipalities and with the UWV. At the same time, I also note that there have been real improvements, which I recently informed the Chamber about, and which we discussed extensively during the budget debate on SZW. Perhaps it is right to point out in this debate that the group of people with disabilities is very broad and diverse. There are also many people who work on their own. There are people who can work with a single provision and there is a group of people who use government regulations to support them in their income and provision. In my speech, I am talking in particular about the latter group, people who use the Wajong or provisions of the Participation Act. I realize very well that the group is much bigger. One passage from the shadow report touched me personally in particular: people indicated that it is always about a certain group of people who are covered by an arrangement, but, they said, we are many, we are unique and we also want this discussion to take place. I also do so with soul and salvation in the context of my labour market discrimination portfolio. Mr. Chairman. Then specifically about these two groups of people, because we have arrangements for them that are relevant to this. I would like to point out, also in the direction of Mr Hijink, that the evaluation of the Participation Act shows that the job opportunities of young disabled people with a working capacity have increased. This has to do with the agreement that more jobs will be created for people with disabilities. They've been cleared so far. The use of sheltered work is also evident in the elevator. I know the debate on figures, it depends a little on what years you are looking at, but according to the latest figures from the evaluations I have sent to the Chamber, more people with disabilities have been working in recent years. But there's also a big but. The assessment of the SCP on the Participation Act also shows that the income position of young disabled people has deteriorated. That's what worries me. In this context, I will come to the Chamber at the beginning of next year with the proposal for a wide-ranging offensive. I would like to take action on many fronts to help people with disabilities to get to work, but also to stay at work. She is not taking part in this debate, but Mrs Van Brenk, in the debates I am holding with your Chamber, is arguing for people to be able to continue working and for the guidance that goes with it. And it is also important to ensure that work pays off. I hope to speak about this with the Chamber on the broad offensive.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u272	I have just made the point that, of course, it is very strange that, at a time when a UN treaty is being ratified to strengthen the rights of people with disabilities, legislation has been adopted which is actually weakening their income position. I would like to ask the Secretary of State if she is prepared to review not only the Participation Act, but also future legislation in this area with the UN Convention for People with Disabilities to see to what extent this legislation hinders the strengthening of human rights and to adapt this law if there is any obstacle.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u273	Based on the figures we get and the measures we advocate, we constantly check whether we are doing the right things. And it's not just about doing things right, it's about doing the right thing. The evaluation of the SCP, which specifically zooms in on young disabled people, shows that their income position has deteriorated, but their employment rate has increased. The issue is how to make that employment rate pay. It's about people coming to work and staying at work. An obstacle in the current Participation Act is the four-week search period for young people with disabilities. So I'm gonna take that out in the broad offensive. One obstacle, for example, is that if you work with labour costs subsidies but do not make enough hours, you will be stuck in the assistance. That's why there's a release arrangement in there. So it is literally essential for me to have this kind of discussion and to turn it into concrete proposals to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u274	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u275	The Secretary of State is now making it very technical, but the question was very simple and very basic. If we see that people with disabilities are financially worse off than before we had this UN Convention, that is not good and we have a problem that needs to be corrected. My question is therefore whether the Secretary of State is prepared to review not only the Participation Act, but also the new legislation it has announced, in line with the principles of the UN Convention and to make adjustments if it appears that people's financial security is further lacking.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u276	That is also the starting point. The security of life schemes contain income components, but also elements of participation. The Participation Act is also more than just an income provision. It contains a pallet of instruments to guide people to work. That is ultimately where that road leads. The basis of the benefits we have is the social minimum. In the Wajong you get these individually without partner and ability tests, while your living situation plays a role in the Participation Act. The most important part of the Participation Act is that people are accompanied to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u277	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u278	As far as you can, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u279	Mr. Renkema, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u280	No, the Secretary of State can't go on, because I want to tighten up a question about the Wajong I've already asked. The Chamber has requested that the Wajong legislation be submitted to the College of Human Rights. The Secretary of State said that this college could have responded during the consultation. But that's actually very reactive. In the light of today's debate and the fact that we have ratified a UN convention, I would ask the Secretary of State to look at it differently. Is she saying afterwards that she should have just presented it, or is she saying, "No, I did it right at the time?"
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u281	I am very aware of my constitutional role. This means that I submit legislation to the Council of State, of course; that is how we do it. There is also a review of these conventions. The present UN Convention also deals with the possibility of participating in the labour market. I note that a very large proportion of the people who are now in the Wajong do not understand the rules and b gets worse if something changes in their situation. We all know the example of someone who's going to make a little more money, but that old saw tooth system is going backwards. Moreover, some 60,000 people are on the sidelines. They want to work, but are hampered by the rules. In view of this, I believe that the proposals for the Wajong that I have made and which have been improved by the Chamber, for the sake of justice, are still a good middle ground between participation and income security on the one hand, all the more so since the group of people who may have negative consequences of it is being overwhelmed by the guarantee scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u282	Finally, Mr Renkema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u283	I do not want to repeat that debate, because it will also be very substantive and very technical. I am more concerned with the fact that, precisely in relation to this target group and this dossier, it is purely a matter of state law to ensure that we comply with the treaty we have ratified. I actually hear the Secretary of State say that she leaves that at the Council of State and that he will look into this, but is there not an additional responsibility of the Secretary of State for this target group?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u284	I feel a very great responsibility for this target group. That is also why I talk to people individually and with interest groups throughout the process and also sit at the table with the college. As far as legislation is concerned, however, I am also looking specifically at the coordinating department, which, of course, also looks at this in all the front portals, but also at the Council of State. I am also pleased that the College has said that it has so many questions in this area that it wants to organise a round table to discuss it with experts and with people who experience it. They also look wider. Perhaps it is good to say that there are also people who are not covered by an arrangement. I also have people at my table, for example young people with non-congenital brain injury, who from the Emma at Work foundation, also known to the Chamber, ask what arrangement is in place for them. That is also why the Minister of SZW, for example, is looking into the question of whether a no-risk policy can be created for them. We can actually do two things; that is perhaps the whole core of the UN Convention as far as my portfolio is concerned. We can come up with all kinds of things or maybe we can say that society needs to tilt and open up to people with all kinds of different backgrounds, plumage and whether or not there are restrictions. That's what I think is my most important assignment. Mr. Chairman. In the direction of Mr Kerstens but also in the direction of the Christian Union, Mr Segers gave this to Mr Renkema, I say that experience is valuable, as I said in the debate on the interruption with Mr Renkema. I repeat what Mr Kerstens said: not about us without us. I think this is an important motto for me and my colleagues on the issues we are discussing. Mr President, a few brief points. A number of your members referred to the poverty figures. I find the difference in poverty rates between people with and without disabilities worrying. That is what I am saying in the direction of Mrs Agema. Of course, the Cabinet has an eye for people who can't make ends meet. I can mention a number of general issues at a certain level of aggregation, where we all see that something is happening: the extra money for the allowances for rent and care costs, the reduction of the burden at work, so that people are net more left, municipalities offering schemes. Moreover, schemes offered by the municipalities are not included in the poverty figures. But although I can mention all of this, I think that this is a matter of concern that I must also address. I have looked a little deeper into the figures, and I can see that wherever that risk actually rose in the financial crisis for all groups, that increase is in any case reversed, but the percentages are so high that I think that there is a very important task there. Mr. Chairman. In this context, it is also important for Mr Segers to ask what is actually going on with the developments in disposable income. The Nibud has done several research on the purchasing power development of people with disabilities or chronic illness on behalf of Each. The last publication was in 2018 about 2019. I can ask the Nibud to repeat this publication. In any case, much information is available on the impact on social participation, also on the basis of CBS and SCP publications. Mr. Chairman. The last question is a question from Mrs Van den Berg. She says that there is actually very little awareness among employers of schemes, such as the reduction in social insurance and the no-risk scheme. She asks if I can make schemes more public to employers and to people with disabilities. I'd be happy to. In fact, I regard this as an important pillar under my mandate, because awareness of regulations and instruments is, of course, of the utmost importance. Much is already happening towards employers. For example, in each labour market region, we set up one recognizable employer service point to be set up; I sent a letter to your Chamber last month. Money has also been made available for this. In the context of the broad offensive, I am also working on the awareness of instruments and arrangements.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u285	Mrs Bergkamp's last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u286	I had saved my interruption for the Secretary of State. I am very pleased with the statement made by the Secretary of State. She's also talking about tilting society. I often notice that people say: the bar is often so high and we all have to comply with it; we have to comply with a standard. How can the Secretary of State take greater account of diversity in its policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u287	For me, it's a starting point. I am trying with the laws that I propose to remove the obstacles or to steer where there is a real need for guidance. But I think it's especially important to keep telling this story. That sounds a little easy, but that's not the point. I would like to highlight one of the very specific points. I asked Aart van der Gaag, after his success in the market sector, to arrange jobs for people with disabilities, to make 15 minutes with the government to speed that up. Because what do you see happening when employers tell each other? Then it's gonna fly. The moment people with disabilities start working in a department and everyone sees that it's actually going really well, it's an oil stain. As far as I'm concerned, it is and-and: laws where necessary, but above all the intrinsic movement from within continue to shape.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u288	Mrs. Van den Berg. This is also your last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u289	Because the Secretary of State said "this is my last reaction," I thought: now I have to go to the microphone. I also asked a question about people with a slightly intellectual disability. They often get into debt and come into poverty because they are not recognized. I had asked whether the good examples of this could no longer be disseminated and whether the Secretary of State was prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u290	Sure. I'll see if that's already adequately secured in ongoing initiatives, such as Shoulders underneath Divosa. But I can also see whether I can give explicit consideration to this issue in the dissemination of information that we regularly do to municipalities, because I very much agree with Mrs van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u291	Thank you. Then we have now reached the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Renkema on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. Oh, first, Mrs. Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u292	Is there another suspension? I ask that not only for myself, but perhaps for several people as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u293	Do you need a short two-minute suspension? Yeah, I see everyone thinks that's a good idea. Then that's what we'll do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u294	Fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u295	Two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u296	We have arrived at the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Renkema on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u297	Thank you, Mr President. The Minister has a nice action programme: Unlimited participation! There's even a very large exclamation point behind it. There are seven lines of action in it. But that shadow report shows a deceptive picture of the situation of people with disabilities. The Minister simply said this morning: it was a collection of experiences. It is a pity that he does not say: I am dissatisfied; my action programme is simply not enough. Also towards the municipalities he does not ignore the non-committality. Tooth tooth, he said four or five times. It is a pity that he does not want to pursue a much firmer policy. Then I come to the review of laws and regulations. On this point, the Minister says that we have signed the treaty, that the government should review it and that the Council of State should review it in higher law, but above all that it should not become a precedent. On the contrary, I want it to be dealt with explicitly. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that people with disabilities are still not sufficiently aware of the ratification by the Netherlands of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities;]] [[noting that new laws and regulations are not always subject to review;]] [[noting that, with ratification, the Netherlands has committed itself to promoting, protecting and guaranteeing the human rights of people with disabilities;]] [[calls on the Government to always explicitly review new laws and regulations on the fundamental principles of this Convention, such as accessibility, autonomy and participation and adaptation when these laws and rules are not in line with the UN Convention, while ensuring compliance by the Council of State,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Renkema, Mr Hijink, Mr Van Kooten-Arissen, Mr Kerstens and Mr Van der Staaij.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24170-203]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u298	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are going to wait until 2040 until public transport is fully accessible to people with disabilities. For me, that was exemplary for the pace at which this government is taking measures to improve the position of people with disabilities. I think the moon landing was faster for each other. In fact, I suspect that the Marslanding will be for each other before we have access to the stations, trains and buses. I would like to table two motions to strengthen the position of people with disabilities. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that laws and regulations should not be contrary to the UN Convention on Equal Rights for Persons with Disabilities;]] [[calls on the Government to bring current legislation which is currently in breach of the UN Convention in line with the principles of the UN Convention in order to ensure the legal status and social status of persons with disabilities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the number of people with disabilities living in poverty has increased, that unemployment among this group has increased and that their income position has deteriorated;]] [[noting that the proper implementation of the UN Convention on equal rights of persons with disabilities should have achieved the opposite;]] [[calls on the Government to take additional measures to address the above-mentioned problems of employment and income in the shadow reporting Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in the Netherlands and to report annually to the extent to which the income position and employment opportunities of people with disabilities have improved,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Hijink. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24170-204]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Hijink, Mr Renkema and Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24170-205]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u299	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the UN Convention on Disabled Persons has been ratified and should therefore be implemented;]] [[Considers that the possibility of lodging a complaint, if the government fails to do so, makes sense if the government takes the implementation of the UN Convention seriously;]] [[calls on the Government to ratify the optional protocol before 1 May 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas implementation of the UN Convention remains too non-binding;]] [[calls on the Government to strengthen the Decision on general accessibility for persons with disabilities or chronic illness in consultation with representative organisations and to submit a proposal to the House of Representatives before 1 May 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the UN Convention requires that people with disabilities be involved in its implementation and implementation, and that the Government has repeatedly expressed its intention to do so;]] [[noting that this involvement is still not sufficiently reflected, at least in the eyes of stakeholders and their organisations themselves;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with these organisations, to examine how to increase the involvement of people with disabilities in this area, including the experience of so-called "disability councils" in Denmark, as well as to develop a model to better shape and content that involvement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Christmas. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24170-206]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Christmas. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24170-207]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Christmas. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24170-208]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u300	I'm going to try very quickly, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u301	No, you can't...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u302	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the fact that the involvement of experience experts in the translation of the UN Convention on Disabled Persons in practice is absolutely of added value and has also been agreed that this should be done,]] [[Whereas the government has committed itself to employing people with disabilities;]] [[calls on the Government to promote the recruitment of experience experts from municipalities, provinces and ministries for a good translation of the UN Convention into practice,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Christmas. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24170-209]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u303	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities was ratified in 2016 but that the shadow report shows that its implementation is not as good as it is based on the progress report from the Action Plan Unlimited! expected;]] [[Whereas improving the position of people with disabilities concerns not only the policy area of the Ministry of VWS but also other ministries and local authorities;]] [[Calls on the Government to draw up a working agenda for all UN-relevant ministries on the basis of the shadow reporting, established with the relevant ministries and the UN-Convention Alliance disability, which will be reported on in the next progress report, with the Ministry of VWS performing its coordinating role by monitoring coherence;]] [[calls on the government to make clear on the basis of this work agenda how the decentralised implementation practice takes place, looking at the amendment adopted by Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Bergkamp,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bergkamp and Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24170-210]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u304	Thank you. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Co-operation Agreement has recently been presented but that the ambitions are not very concrete and that this should also be implemented mainly at local level;]] [[believes that all children, regardless of their disability, should be able to play together but that they should also be able to play together in friendships;]] [[calls on the Government to agree with the VNG, Playground Gang and other relevant parties on what is necessary to have all municipalities set concrete, qualitative and quantitative targets to achieve more inclusive play spots, and to inform the House of Representatives at the end of the first quarter of 2020, with a view to achieving the ambitions of the TogetherPlayAccordingly,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Bergkamp. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24170-211]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u305	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u306	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van den Berg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u307	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Real life wants to give different results than we can believe from statistics. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the programme is in full swing! has carried out projects and actions in a number of areas of life in order to increase the participation of people with disabilities;]] [[Whereas the Shadow Reporting Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in the Netherlands presents a worrying picture of a number of life domains;]] [[Whereas people with disabilities face different provisions, laws and regulations and in practice face all kinds of obstacles in those different provisions, laws and regulations;]] [[calls on the Minister to monitor a small group of different people with a chronic illness or disability for a year and to identify the practical problems and to present legislative proposals to the House of Representatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van den Berg and Van der Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24170-212]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u308	Mrs Van den Berg, Mrs Agema has a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u309	Mrs Van den Berg, do you think that people with restrictions should be able to travel at train rates?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u310	I think the Minister has just given a clear answer to your question. I would like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u311	No, I didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u312	Thank you very much, Mrs Van den Berg. I now give the floor to Mrs Van der Graaf on behalf of the Christian Union, who is replacing Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u313	Mr. Chairman. I see I need to speak very quickly, so I'm gonna start right now. I have two motions I would like to make on behalf of the Christian Union. Motion number one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas transport operators in public transport fulfil the obligations of the UN Convention on Accessibility in different ways;]] [[Whereas not all carriers make the same effort in terms of travel assistance, travel guidance and facilities on trains such as accessible toilets;]] [[Whereas public transport procurement could lead to a deterioration in accessibility and assistance for people with disabilities;]] [[considers that this is undesirable;]] [[calls on the Government, together with co-administrations, transporters and experience experts, to make concrete agreements on accessibility as a national basic provision for each carrier, including these concrete arrangements as new minimum requirements for public transport procurement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van der Graaf, Mr Segers and Mr Van den Berg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24170-213]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u314	I think I gave the wrong text.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u315	I understand it's the right line. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u316	Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas 24.6% of people with disabilities lived in poverty and social exclusion in 2016;]] [[Whereas, between 2008 and 2017, purchasing power in people with disability benefits fell by 0.9%, while there was an average increase in purchasing power of 5.2% and an increase of 15.4% in workers;]] [[Whereas people with disabilities inevitably have higher spending, including for medical care, support and social participation;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out research into the development of the financial position of households with people with disabilities, looking at both income and expenditure and also into the impact of poverty on social participation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van der Graaf, Mr Segers, Mr Kerstens, Mr Renkema and Mr Van den Berg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24170-214]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u317	I would like to put to the vote this evening a motion that I have taken on board in the Kingdom relations budget to help the Caribbean parts of our Kingdom to implement the Treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u318	If you pass on the number, it'll be sent around. Then I'm going to see Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u319	In the first term, I asked Mr Segers if he thinks that people with a limit should be able to travel at train fare. He said that you would give the answer in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u320	I need to check that out, if I'm being honest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u321	No, I didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u322	We didn't switch that with each other. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u323	Thank you, Mrs Van der Graaf. Then I'll go to Mrs. Agema on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u324	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a maximum mileage limit of 700 km for the standard Valys transport, the so-called personal mileage budget, and that the high mileage limit is 2,350 km;]] [[noting that the Valys user pays about €0.20 per kilometre if he or she travels above regional level and pays the same as someone would pay for a train journey without a restriction and that this will suddenly be €1.22 per kilometre if the mileage limit is exceeded;]] [[considers that equivalence means that people with or without restrictions pay the same amount for public transport;]] [[noting that the wheelchair accessibility of our stations is still very poor, since only 154 of 247 stations provide assistance when entering and leaving the train and that many of the persons concerned remain dependent on upper regional transport for the time being;]] [[Considers that the individual registration of the mileage used leads to unnecessary administrative burdens and is also undesirable in the context of the privacy of the user, especially since a train traveller does not have to administer where he or she is going on a public mission;]] [[noting that the macro budget for Valys amounts to around EUR 64 million and that around EUR 1 million is used each year to assess whether people are getting a higher personal mileage budget;]] [[Considering that only 1.5% of Valys users wish to use more kilometres and that 1.5% of 64 million euros are less than 1 million euros and that the personal mileage budget should in principle be abolished on a budget-neutral basis;]] [[noting that a windfall in the annual accounts is reported on the Valys transport budget;]] [[calls on the Government to lift the mileage limit and the administrative burden and registration of kilometres for the Valys transport with a personal kilometer budget,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agema and Mr Hijink. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24170-215]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u325	Do I only have 20 seconds? Thank you. Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government, in close cooperation with the United Nations Alliance, to discuss disability with the VNG and to agree on how all municipalities will develop a concrete local inclusion agenda in the very short term, with clear frameworks, settleable (intermediate) targets and a deadline for implementation, and also to announce sanctions for municipalities that do not comply with this obligation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government, in close cooperation with the Alliance of the United Nations Convention on Disabled Persons, to come up with a working agenda and an accompanying concrete action plan with settleable (intermediate) targets at all ministries, in order to improve the position of people with disabilities, both objectively and for the people, fully in line with the UN Convention on Disabled Persons,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24170-216]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24170-217]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u326	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u327	Thank you. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Laan-Geselschap, on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u328	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. With the notion from the VVD that we want to emphasize here again that together sports for many people is the first way to return to society and come into contact with all kinds of people with disabilities. Especially doing that together is so very important to us. We are very pleased that both directors have also responded positively to this, in the sense that inclusion begins with: how do we look at each other now, and do we see each other as people or do we see each other as a limitation? We then have one motion, the motion 'action plan involving persons with a disability establishment public space'. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, with the ratification of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities as of 1 January 2019, general accessibility is the norm;]] [[having noted that Mr Volp tabled a motion on 22 December 2016 to draw up an action plan for the accessibility of public buildings;]] [[considers that such an action plan is also necessary for the accessibility of public space, e.g. when redesigned;]] [[calls on the Government to strengthen access to public space through the implementation agenda of the NOVI in the municipal environment visions, to embed the path of participation of people with disabilities and to ask the VNG to take charge of its implementation together with organisations from the field,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Laan-Geselschap, Mr Bergkamp, Mr Van der Graaf and Mr Kerstens. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24170-218]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u329	There is a short question on the motion tabled by Mr Renkema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u330	A quick question. What is meant by public space? How broad am I supposed to imagine that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u331	That's a terminology I still have from the time I was alderman of Spatial Planning in Kralingen-Crooswijk. And that's what we meant by that: if you walk out, you're in public space. So it's about the establishment of the public area in the municipality; it's all about layout plans and the like.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u332	Mrs. Agema has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u333	I also asked Mrs Laan-Geselschap in the first term whether she felt that people with restrictions should be able to travel at a train fare. She hasn't answered; I'm very curious now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u334	I did answer that. I'm also in Mrs. Agema's video. I give the answer that I agree with the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u335	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u336	That is your observation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u337	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. There is a need for a very short suspension of about two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u338	Minister De Jonge.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u339	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to review the motions that have been tabled in the second term. The motion in part No. 203, on compliance with the UN Convention on Handicap, I should like to advise against referring to what I said in the first term. The review of higher law, which is requested, is already explicitly carried out by the Council of State. This is part of the legislative process, in which, of course, the Chamber itself has a role to play. The motion in part No. 204 calls on the Government to bring current legislation contrary to the UN Convention in line with the principles of the UN Convention in order to ensure the legal status and social status of persons with disabilities. I advise against this motion. The review of legislation has already taken place, namely on ratification. The observation of the Cabinet and the Chamber at the time was that this was the case. In addition, there is a process in which, as I said, the Council of State also has a role to play in the drafting of new legislation. My colleague Van Ark will make the motion in part No. 205................................................................................................................. Then the motion to part No. 206. It invites the government to ratify the optional protocol by 1 May 2020. I have indicated to Mr Kerstens that the United Nations is currently organising an evaluation of the optional protocols and the functioning of the review bodies. The results of this evaluation will take the Cabinet into consideration whether or not to sign the protocol. This motion is ahead of us and I should therefore like to advise against it. The motion in part No. 207 calls for a tightening up of the General Accessibility Decision. I would also like to advise against this motion, because the decision on general accessibility indicates that work is to be carried out gradually towards achieving that general accessibility. That is precisely what we are doing. The Decision would require general accessibility to do so through action plans. That is precisely what we are doing in many sub-sectors. You know the examples in the areas of services, access to construction and the transport of target groups. So we're just working. It is not that the decision is in our way to go harder, but the harsh reality is in our way. We will have to go harder on this. We have also talked about this in detail, but the decision is not going to help. So I'm deceiving the motion. The motion in part No. 208, I also advise against it. There is already an obligation for municipalities to organise local participation. The VNG supports municipalities to shape this in a good way. Frankly, I don't feel so crazy about importing a model from Denmark. Indeed, we already have an obligation to organise participation in the law. The motion in part No. 209 calls on the government to promote the recruitment of experience experts in municipalities, provinces and ministries. I'd like to make the following suggestion. If you are referring this motion to the Empire in particular, I would like to leave it to the Chamber. I believe that your colleagues in the Provincial States of the twelve provinces should submit this motion to the province. I would like to focus these on what we can influence ourselves. Then I do think that we still need to take steps in this regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u340	Are you willing to do that, Mr. Kerstens?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u341	At least I'm gonna give that some thought. Moreover, the motion refers to "promoting" when it comes to municipalities and provinces. That's another thing than hiring people yourself. At least I hear the Minister say that the latter is going to happen at a rich level; I hope I can understand him that way. So I'm thinking about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u342	You have until tonight to think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u343	I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u344	The motion in part No. 210 is the motion for a resolution, the substance of which was the most important during the first term of the debate. This motion is the result of the debate in the first term. What I said in the first term, I'm not going to do again. This motion speaks about making it clear on the basis of a work agenda how the decentralised implementation practice is conducted. The motion also talks about it, with the shadow report under the arm, talking to the fellow departments and the Alliance to see what the next steps might be. If I may read the motion in this way, I think it is very much in line with the urgency that your Chamber felt in the first term and with what the Cabinet would like to do on the basis of the Alliance's shadow report. I would therefore like to give the House's opinion on this motion. No, on this motion, I should like to leave the judgment to the Chamber; that is what I am supposed to say. Then the motion to part No. 211 to make agreements with the VNG, Playground Gang and other relevant parties on what is necessary to set concrete, qualitative and quantitative targets for all municipalities in order to achieve the ambitions of the TogetherPlayAgree. I would like to talk to the initiators to see how we can deliver on the promises of all the parties involved. At some point you have to be able to say: do we think the steps have been taken that need to be taken? So I'd like to talk about that. If I may explain the motion in this way, I would like to leave it to the Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 212, which asks the Minister to monitor a small group of different people with chronic illness or disability for a year and to identify the practical problems. I think that is a sympathetic motion. I think it's good to do that, too. So the answer is yes. I would ask Mrs van den Berg to give me the opportunity to choose in the 'how' a form that has some representativeness and has real power of expression about implementation practice. So I'm asking for some space in the design. If you'll allow it, I can get on with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u345	This is a motion by Mrs van den Berg, so I shall first give the floor to Mrs van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u346	The Minister had indicated to us that he would then send us a report or at least a letter on how he intends to set it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u347	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u348	I do have a question for the Minister about this. I believe that this will pass through a number of organisations with which we have been talking for years and which advise us on all these groups. Apparently, the Minister is encouraging the proposers positively. I keep thinking it's a weird issue, because this is what you should do for everyone in the Netherlands when it hits someone in an area. I think that's a sliding scale. I don't like that. I would therefore like to ask how the organisations concerned respond to this, because in that sense the question is also a little whether they advise us well or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u349	I suppose I'm supposed to do the implementation with those organisations. I don't know how else to do it. It is precisely the Alliance that represents experience experts and people with disabilities. There are a lot of representative organisations underneath that, which I will really need to ensure meaningful implementation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u350	Good. So the verdict is...?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u351	Under that explanation, I'll leave the verdict to the Chamber. The motion of CU and CDA to item No. 213 calls for concrete agreements to be made with carriers, co-governments and experts on accessibility as a basic provision for each carrier, subject to specific arrangements as minimum requirements. I had already responded to that, namely with the Decision on access to public transport and by saying that new requirements will be laid down. Before embracing this, I really think I would like to ask my colleague to respond. So perhaps you would be prepared to hold the motion. I would ask my colleague to inform you at the shortest possible time. That will no longer be possible before tonight's votes, if that is all right with you. But it means that I ask you to hold the motion for a moment so that my colleague can respond to it at the beginning of the new year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u352	Mrs. Van der Graaf?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u353	I'd like to hold the motion until we get a response from the colleague. It's an urgent matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u354	At the request of Mrs Van der Graaf, I propose her motion (24170, No. 213). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u355	The motion in part No. 214 deals with colleague Van Ark. The motion in part No. 215 is the Valysmotion. We talked about this in the first term. I think I can largely refer to that first deadline and therefore detach this motion. That's how I dealt with the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u356	The rest of the motions...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u357	There's two more. These are done by colleague Van Ark.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u358	Yes. Mr. Kerstens?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u359	Mr President, I have done the thinking. I'm adjusting the motion so she can get judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u360	Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u361	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to the Secretary of State. The other motions are being dealt with by her, right? There are four more motions. No, five. The motions on the documents Nos. 216, 217 and 218 have not yet been dealt with. The Minister will see what's going on. In the meantime, I will give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u362	Mr President, I will indeed give an opinion on the motions for resolutions on the items Nos. 205 and 214. The motion in part No. Mr Hijink, Mr Renkema and Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen asked for additional measures. I have tried to argue that there is a lot in the scaffolding. That is also necessary, according to the reports. But the scaffolding includes the broad offensive, the approach to child poverty and the broad debt approach. Because of the port of this motion, namely that we need to do even more business, I would like to discourage the motion. I am prepared, however, to allow the investigation to be carried out where in the motion in part No. 214 to be requested. This motion calls for research into the development of the financial position of households with people with disabilities and the impact of poverty on social participation. I'm giving that motion judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u363	I have a question on the motion for a resolution on item No. 214, so that we can make a good assessment. What's the difference with the Nibud's investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u364	It says, "Let's get research done." In any case, I will look at what is now lying in the Nibud and whether we should do something additional, or whether we can add the question contained in this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u365	Thank you. I'm gonna see if the Minister's other motions are in the meantime...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u366	Sure! I've got my paperwork back in order. Apologies, I say to Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen. The motion in part No. 216 I'm going to dissuade. There is already an agreement that municipalities will create a local inclusion agenda. I have explained how I convey this and how I support municipalities to give it real form and content. But clear frameworks, settleable intermediate targets, deadline for introduction, sanctions... That's not the way co-governments have to deal with each other, is it? I'm not gonna choose that shape. So I'm deceiving the motion. The motion in part No. 217 actually has the same settleable intermediate goals et cetera. I actually attach great importance to the method proposed by Mrs Bergkamp in her motion and as we have discussed it. With that report from the Alliance under my arm, I will go to the colleagues and municipalities. Then I'm gonna see what the next steps we're gonna have to take are. That's how I'm gonna do it. It is, however, extremely complex and bureaucratic to set up fixed intermediate targets and such. You just want action and movement. You can call me on that. The motion in part No. I understand Mrs Laan-Geselschap's point of view, I am able to place it well and is very important, but since it is very much in the area of a colleague, I would like to give the same answer that I gave to Mrs Van der Graaf, namely that I would like to coordinate the reaction to this motion with the BZK colleague. I therefore ask you to hold that motion until then.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u367	Very briefly, Mrs. Laan-Selship?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u368	Yes, I'd like to hold the motion. Then we'll do it in January.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u369	At the request of Mrs Laan-Geselschap, I propose her motion (24170, No. 218), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 218/1999. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u370	I would like to inform the Minister that we do need concrete and manageable intermediate targets now that only 25% of municipalities have made the mandatory inclusion agenda, while all municipalities are obliged to make them from the year 2016. So there really needs to be more and there needs to be less commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u371	Absolutely. The legal obligation applies to everyone. Mr Van der Staaij rightly points that out. I'm supposed to appeal to congregations. Now 35% of the municipalities do not have a local inclusion agenda. So we absolutely have to go up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u372	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this special debate. We shall be voting on the motions tabled tonight. I would like to thank the Minister and the Secretary of State, but above all the people who are particularly present here today in connection with this debate. Again, there are other people who unfortunately could not sit in the public gallery. They'll follow the debate downstairs through a screen. Apologies again for them. I hope that next time it will be done much better than today. I wish you all a very good day.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-4.u373	I'm gonna suspend until 2:45. Then we'll vote first and then we'll do the arrangement.
