ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-3.u1	I now give the floor to Mr Nijboer for his question to the Minister for Finance on the increasing number of puff squats. I would like to welcome the Minister of Finance. Mr Nijboer on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's gonna happen to you... a huge bang, the whole street, and everyone panicked. Unfortunately, there has been a huge increase in the number of puff squats in recent times and the damage associated with it. People feel unsafe. If you live above an ATM, you're worried. For this reason, it is also understandable that ABN last weekend detected 470 ATMs, as it is called. The money has been taken out of the vending machines and the vending machines have been disused, which is understandable for reasons of security. It does immediately raise the question whether the other ATMs, especially those in residential areas or in shopping malls where people live nearby, are safe. That is the first question to the Minister. The second question is what removing 470 ATMs, half the number of ATMs that ABN AMRO, one of the larger banks, has in this country, means for the availability and accessibility of cash. I do see in press releases that the 5 kilometers distance is not compromised, but does the Minister with the PvdA recognise that there are a lot of people who find 5 kilometers to an ATM a long way? If you're in a city, if you're a little bad on your feet and you normally get your money at your mall, and you have to go a long way down the road, there's some serious consequences. So that five kilometers isn't enough. Does the Minister recognize that? What is he going to do to ensure that availability is restored in the short term? Finally. The 470 vending machines are temporarily out of running. Does that mean that they are all being put back into operation, or is it being checked whether they are in a safe place and are alternatives instead? Or is it going to be a disguised cut and we're going to end up keeping it down to 100 or less? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-3.u3	I shall now give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mr President, thank you. Thank you also to Mr Nijboer for starting with what I believe to be the most important and what, I think, is the greatest concern for all of us. That is the safety that is at stake for people who have to deal with enormous havoc, who have to do with damage to their homes and who, in some cases, are also simply injured by such a puff squat. It's really far-reaching to experience. Mr Nijboer is quite right to outline the dilemma we are seeing, because organised crime is too successful to ram the ATMs. Next, the bank faces a difficult dilemma: they want to ensure a good supply of money, but this doesn't make any sense. In this way, it only endangers safety. Mr Nijboer's first question was: is it safe in other places? Well, you see, unfortunately, over the last few years, a lot of different types of ATMs have been raided. But that's the second part of the answer to the first question "There's really been a shift over the past year to one specific type of ATM from ABN AMRO. They'll be picked out in the best possible way. That is the group of vending machines that is now being taken back. Can I guarantee the safety of all the other vending machines and the people around them? Of course not in an absolute sense, but there seems to be something specific going on with one type of ATM. On the first question, I would like to say to Mr Nijboer that I am still talking to the sector. I will also put the question of security to my colleague from the Ministry of Justice and Security. Mr. Chairman. Mr Nijboer's second question concerns availability. That's a subject I've talked to your Chamber about before. In the Netherlands, it is important that we continue to have the opportunity to pay in cash. We also believe that everyone, well on their feet, should have access to cash or to an ATM. The good news is: in the Netherlands we still have a percentage of 99.5% of the inhabitants of our country who are served, which fall within that 5 kilometer limit. There are people living in relative outskirts, but this is, of course, a very good percentage. I'm also keen to keep it that way. It wasn't just important, it's still important. Then there is Mr Nijboer's third question: are all these vending machines coming back? I haven't had that looked at yet. What matters to me is that we stick to that 5 km limit or, thinking in the same direction as Mr Nijboer's, especially in urban areas, a shorter walking, cycling or bus distance to a vending machine, however you want to formulate it. In any case, it is not the case, as I have heard from the banks, that we are now going to cut the number of vending machines. You can only imagine that the moment you get that cover in order, you are going to a situation with less but safer vending machines, as long as you continue to meet that 5 kilometers criterion. Mr. Chairman. I'm resuming. It is quite right for Mr Nijboer to point out safety in this way. That's real concern number one. Two: we will also keep a close eye on this availability with the Payment Traffic Platform.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-3.u5	The Minister also has two minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-3.u6	Apologies, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-3.u7	But, Mr President, I did get answers to my questions, so that's good. That is not always the case, but it is now. I do have follow-up questions to the Minister. I can very well imagine that people who live above an ATM, also an ATM from another bank, are very concerned. Criminals have now developed this method, but they are not still. They always come up with new and often coarser methods to crack or explode another machine. You can see that now. They can't come here anymore, so they'll start looking for other means. I ask the Minister whether it is not necessary to take a fundamental look at whether the ATM machines in the Netherlands, under residential houses, under housing blocks and in shopping centres, are in the right place. Are those the right places to host ATMs? Shouldn't they be in-house or self-employed? Is the Minister prepared to take a fundamental look at this now that such a large measure has been taken and 470 of these machines have been emptied? Those puff squats will keep coming, and especially if they're in inhabited areas, that's a big problem. People are increasingly worried about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-3.u8	I have a thing for that. I am thinking of two lines. The first question is of course how to provide as secure ATMs as possible. It is interesting to see that many categories of ATMs have dramatically reduced the number of puff squats. Apparently, you can do something about it. The second is, I think, also in line with Mr Nijboer's question. Can you analyze which places are more vulnerable because people live nearby? And can't you move the place from there to another location? I'd like to have that examined. Mr Nijboer understands, I think, that I cannot give that answer here now, but let me insert that into the social consultation on payment transactions. I'll get back to the room after that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-3.u9	Thank you for that commitment. Two final questions. One. That 5 km is, of course, a measure for the region. That's what the Minister likes. In the rural area you should be able to live nearby, but for people in the city, people who are poor on their feet and elderly people who often want to shop at the shopping centre, that is far and far too far. Is the Minister prepared to see if we can get closer? Finally, Mr President. I referred earlier to the monopoly position of some companies in the money market. We now have money size operating on behalf of the joint banks. There is also the risk that all these vending machines will be the same. If the criminals use that handy for their cracks, they're all under pressure at once. How is this risk addressed by the banking sector? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-3.u10	I have often had an exchange of views with the Chamber on the second point. That is exactly what I have included in the social consultation on payment transactions. We will continue to monitor this, because I understand Mr Nijboer's concern. At the same time, however, a major problem cannot be expected in the short term. I think that's something we should just monitor with each other. If anything changes there, I'll inform the Chamber as well. Mr Nijboer's first question is whether that circle should not be drawn shorter. For the record, the people in the city and in the countryside are just as sweet to me. But it makes sense that you will also be on the road a little longer if you live further away from urban areas. I do not find it difficult to re-identify the extent to which that limit is met. But I would also like to guard against the idea that it will be very easy to go back to a limit of another kilometer tighter, because that also has all kinds of repercussions. I think we should also be careful that we organise something with good intentions, which then brings about other problems. But let me ask this question... Let me put it another way: may I understand Mr Nijboer's question in such a way that we really want to know from the payment platform what his assessment is of people who, while falling within that 5 kilometres limit, are likely to get into trouble? Are there any and, if so, can it be solved?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-3.u11	That's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-3.u12	Thank you, Mr. Nijboer. Mr Ronnes on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-3.u13	Mr President, a supplementary question to the Minister. This is about how we can arm ourselves against these kinds of fools and criminal gangs. Is the Minister looking at what is going on with his colleagues in the cabinet to see if these gangs can't be dealt with extra hard? So is it also being examined to see if it can be smothered in the bud?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-3.u14	I think I speak on behalf of all of us when I say that, of course, we want to. We are talking about organized crime, and we are talking about rigging a whole façade, scaring people to death and sometimes causing injuries. So I think we're all, really all, eager to do something about it. At the same time, Mr Ronnes' question is also about what you are putting your important and scarce police capacity on. That is a question that is really primarily for the Minister of Justice to answer. It is not up to me to say quickly that this is also very important. Because it is, but we have a lot of issues in the fight against crime that require a lot of attention. So, with Mr Ronnes' approval, I passed this question on to the Minister of Justice. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-03-tweedekamer-3.u15	Thank you.
