ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u1	I give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. We are having a debate today on organised crime and the economy of drugs. The report De backder van Amsterdam, which prompted your Chamber to request this debate, is for me a confirmation of other sources of knowledge on the subject. I refer to the National Drug Monitor in this context, I refer to the national threat picture and I refer to Europol's threat picture. They all gave the impression that there was a large illegal drug industry, organized and directed by serious criminals and criminal organisations. I also refer to the report of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction. It seems to me that there are sufficient sources of evidence to support the seriousness and extent of this problem by means of research. It is an industry in which very large profits are made with nothing to say. Let me give you some figures. 16 billion in criminal spending, 82 synthetic production sites and 292 dumping, methamphetamine and heroin factories in the Netherlands, 22,400 kilos of cocaine seized in Rotterdam and the Zeeland waters last year and on top of that 50,100 kilos in Antwerp which are largely carried out in the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. It is also a ruthless industry, an industry that deals with corpses, terrorizes citizens and neighborhoods, threatens mayors and administrators, in short: society is undermining. Hard drugs undermine society. I have drawn 100 million from an undermining fund and 10 million from the government agreement to deal with the drug industry and its criminal profits. I have always said that it is a first step, a first, a major and important step, but more steps will have to be taken. We have strengthened the police and we are also working on strengthening the criminal justice chain. In addition, several legislative proposals under the undermining legislation are currently under way. Then we look closely at bottlenecks and wishes that live in practice. I should like to give a few examples, so that we can make that clear to each other. We have now reached the first milestone with the entry into force of the amended Article 13b Opium Act. Since 1 January, mayors can close homes and other premises, even if objects or substances are found which are clearly intended for the cultivation or preparation of drugs, such as certain equipment, chemicals and dissections, not only the drugs themselves, but also the preparations. Then there are the legislative proposals aimed at doubling the penalty rate for illegal possession of automatic firearms and increasing the penalty rate for perpetrators of serious crimes in an organized context, both being dealt with in the First Chamber. Then there is the pursuit team undermining, which prepares a model protocol for data sharing within the municipality in collaboration with the Dutch Data Protection Authority. Then there is the Data Processing Partnerships Act, which has been sent for an opinion to the Department of the Council of State. Your Chamber knows that I have always reported that in the 2018-2019 parliamentary year I had a detailed discussion with the Dutch Data Protection Authority about this in order to bring the bill forward in a way that was also sustainable in the light of our laws and regulations. Then I will be speaking to your Chamber shortly about the legislative amendment to the Bibob Act, including the extension of the scope of application and the strengthening of own research opportunities. I will come back to the issue of the sharing of information in greater detail in the light of the questions on this subject. Then, before the summer, the legislative proposal for strengthening criminal law has been brought into consultation undermining crime. Among other things, it includes the proposal to increase the penalty ceiling for threats and increase the penalty rate in the event of threats to mayors and other directors. I have briefly indicated that threat has now become a kind of business model, and that is exactly what this bill is about. Then there is the large packing letter that I wrote together with the Minister of Finance, to which some of your Members, including Mr Groothuizen, have already referred. I'm just saying it out loud. I think that finance is a very important ally, because justice and finance together must achieve much more. That is why in the spring, as I informed your Chamber, I had a conversation with Mr Snel to see if the FIOD and the Tax Administration could train any more, possibly with additional resources, in order to be able to work together even better. It is also good that an important investment in the FIOD has been announced in the Spring Paper 2019. With that, I respond immediately to a point made by Mrs Kuik. Bundling capacity, better cooperation and good information sharing are three key pillars for improving the way in which serious organised drug crime is tackled over the next few years. This is a problem that requires long-term attention. I never made a secret out of that. We will have to do this for a number of years. Last year, Professor Tops pointed out that, as a society between 2005 and roughly 2015, we did not give priority to tackling drug crime. I'm gonna be tough on that, and I'm gonna be hard on that. I'm not someone who criminalizes drug users. I stress this here, and I will work it out later on on the basis of questions. I do think that we should look in the mirror and ask ourselves whether we have not left it too easy in this society. Recreational users should also be aware of what they ultimately contribute to. Finally, it is clear that undermining really requires a long-term approach. At least I think that is a top priority for me. This brings me straight away, Mr President, to a number of things that relate to drugs, legalization, tolerance and use. Let's get that cow by the horns right away. Legalization of hard drugs is not an option. These are means that we have found together that they pose an unacceptable risk to health and that they disrupt society. That's why they're on list I of the Opium Act. There is no possibility of taking steps in this area at international level either. I refer you to the latest reports from the UN Conference on this subject, which was held this spring. The Netherlands would be completely isolated. I have said before that this would make us the drain for the production, trade and transit of hard drugs. We already see in the reports from Brabant that Mexican gangs are being spotted here and there, so we can assume that we will only be the drain if we don't just take that step forward together. Moreover, the illegal market would not disappear either, precisely because of the markets abroad. But apart from that, we must have no illusions. Some people say: let us allow a certain level of hard drug, and when the level is higher, it must not be allowed. It is an illusion to think that criminals will say: well, then we will only produce drugs up to that level. Those are illusions. And I'm gonna make the next call. In our society, we have managed to reduce tobacco significantly. We have also managed to take clear steps with each other with regard to the degree of alcohol acceptance. If we have succeeded, we must also be able to counter this monster. Because it's a monster. Before I may be told in review that there is a puffy language, I would just like to say very clearly: there is really no question of legalization under this minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u3	That is clear and I expected this a little bit. But the minister said we'd isolate ourselves in the world if we started thinking about legalization. I would like to ask a question about that. GroenLinks sees something quite different happening in the world. In Uruguay, in Portugal, in Canada, in an increasing number of states in the United States, legalization and regulation are on the increase. So I'm really wondering what the Minister's statement is based on. At least I don't recognize this when I look at the current trends around us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u4	Mr President, may I offer to your Chamber that I will send the most recent reports from this year and from a few years ago to the UN Conference? I believe that this conference will be held once every two years in March. This year Mr Bruins has also been present. These reports show the simply shared resistance to tolerance of hard drugs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u5	Stay close to the microphone, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u6	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman, you'll warn me as well as I can. There is a worldwide objection to tolerating hard drugs. Now I hear the honourable Member referring to countries, but I associate the American states he mentions with tolerance of cannabis. The same applies to Canada. Today's debate is not so much about that as it is about the weed experiment, although I will say something about it later, because questions have been asked about it. But let me make one thing clear: the countries that are mentioned have done experiments in the field of cannabis. It is also a little inappropriate to come with Portugal, if you will allow me to do so, Mr President. That was what we had in the past in my hometown of Amsterdam, namely a controlled group of serious addicts. But let us be clear, we are talking here about the fact that not so much general tolerance for hard drugs as for young people and vulnerable groups is gradually beginning to increase, and that the number of deaths from cocaine use has increased considerably since 2000. I'm first and foremost in front of the next one. We have said together that what is on List I of the Opium Act is harmful. Then I stand as Minister of Justice and Security in favour of tackling the crime that enriches itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u7	When it comes to tackling organised crime, we find each other. By the way, Portugal was also partly concerned with hard drugs. However, as I have also asked in my speech, I would like to challenge the Minister to call in the UN for an investigation, an evaluation of how effective different policies have been on drugs and how effective almost 50 years have been on drugs and in the Netherlands has been a trend towards increasing repression in order to reduce crime and problematic drug use. The burden of proof is always reversed and references are always made to other countries. But then prove to me how repression and this war on drugs have been effective in recent years, because I do not see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u8	We must be careful, however, in the sense that I do not have to prove here why something has been banned by law for years. In the end, it is society that decides what it considers to be criminal and inadmissible and what is on list I of the Opium Act. But I would like to refer you straight away to the research I mentioned earlier by Professor Tops last year. I mentioned the title: where a small country can be big. In this he explains quite in detail and shows how the policy in the Netherlands was quite clear and strong until 2005 and after that, I always say, as a society apparently, for whatever reason, we have not made it a high priority anymore. Maybe it was because it went very well, but that's not the point. I reject the idea of "war on drugs." There has never been a war in the Netherlands on a scale such as the United States that has done at any time, a war, a war against drugs. The Netherlands also has a policy of allowing the use of drugs. The Netherlands has a policy that is very humane and compassionate with regard to people suffering from drug problems. That is a rather different approach to the term 'war on drugs'.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u9	I'm trying to follow the minister. And it may be me, but I've had trouble with that before. I also have the feeling that he's going a little bit on two tracks here. On the one hand, he starts with a very heavy story: "This is what drug policy is like. You can't beat that. That is absolutely not possible. It's been carved in marble for the rest of eternity." I mentioned that in my first term as orthodoxy. I feel a little confirmed in that. On the other hand, in response to questions from Mr Van den Berge, he says: "I cannot explain it either. It is a certain kind of social choice to list I or list II and to find it criminal or non-criminal." I asked him how he looked at the fact that society might say about ecstasy: we do not see such a problem in moderate use anymore. Is it still real, then, to keep it endlessly in criminal law? I think that is what the Minister of Justice should be talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u10	In my introduction, I explained very clearly why these substances pose an unacceptable risk to health and so on. When I was asked whether I can prove that it is not true that repression does not work, a double negation, but well, that was the question, I said the following. It is not for me to say, as a society, for the reasons I have just mentioned, such as unacceptable risks to health and criminalisation in the supply, trade and production: we find this unacceptable, we consider that criminal and list I of the Opium Act. As far as the investigations are concerned, I have just indicated that this Minister is convinced that legalising hard drugs is not an option. I really think that we should be able to deal with the enormous organised crime that has been surrounding it. This huge organised crime was not there at the end of the 1970s, when there was a major problem in the major cities of heroin addicts. We have to say now: we have a very large organised crime, which mainly makes its profits with drugs, and we have to deal with organised crime.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u11	The minister walks around with a big bow. In my opinion, the problem with drugs is that it is illegal and that people get it in an illegal circuit. This illegal circuit has come into the hands of organized crime. I think we can all agree that this brings with it a lot of disadvantages. The question is: is the overall criminal approach to drugs still being used in Dutch society? I have my doubts about that. Perhaps it is true that some part of society says at some point: we see this less, for example in the case of ecstasy. That's a path we've kind of gotten into with weed. My question to the Minister is: is it still real to continue to do so in criminal law, when some of the population no longer understands the criminality and we also note that we are organizing a number of problems ourselves? I am not saying that it is easy to find another solution. I think we also agree that this is complicated in many ways, but I would like to hear from the Minister how he looks at this fundamental issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u12	The part of the population that likes it all is never quantified. With all the honour and virtue for the two researchers: neither is it happening in their leading piece today. If we look at the number of people who use hard drugs in relation to the population, we are luckily still talking about a small minority. You'll find all that in the National Drug Monitor. Let that be one thing that's clear. The past has shown, with regard to heroin, cocaine and other matters, that hard drugs are indeed a considerable risk to certain groups of the population who do not deal with them and who end up in addiction problems. This is unrelated to the fact that hard drugs still pose unacceptable risks to the health of people who think they might be able to deal with them better. From ecstasy, the Trimbos Institute says that 1 in 250 people taking pills have a serious health incident. I think that's quite a number. Coming back to the point. You ask: what does the Minister think of that? I believe that if we say together that these substances, which are on list I of the Opium Act, pose an unacceptable risk to health and disrupt society, we must also ensure that we prevent trade in and production of these substances.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u13	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u14	I want to say something about soft drug cannabis, also because it came out of the PVV. There's something different there. It is a means whose risk to people and society is lower. It's not on list I either. There, and Mr Van den Berge has already pointed out this, other countries are also taking steps internationally. Through you I say to Mr Helder that you cannot dismiss that weed experiment as inconsistency or something like that. A committee of experts led by Professor Knottnerus, former chairman of the Health Council, is involved in defining very well what could be all health and other risks. Finally, we must realise that we used a policy of tolerance on soft drugs, precisely because of the other risk situation, a long time ago. This weed experiment, and I stress it again in one sentence, aims to investigate whether you could also decriminalize production. Mr. Chairman. I said it at the beginning, but I would like to stress it again: I do not criminalise users, but I do address them. I want to hold them a mirror. They must realise that they are contributing to an illegal large industry that involves violence, intimidation, illegal money flows and environmental pollution. They have to be able to realize that. I have already said a few things about the tolerance of drugs in society. I won't work that out any further. Maybe I should have brought 150 copies of the National Drug Monitor that the Trimbos Institute issues annually. I got him right here. It contains figures on the use of cocaine and the slow rise of crystal meth. Last year two heroin factories were closed; I mentioned it earlier in this Chamber. It really gives a worrying picture of the gradual increase in the use of hard drugs. Mr Groothuizen, and in his wake Mr Van Nispen, I mean that not wrongly asked for justification, usefulness and necessity. I have just said a few words about this in connection with the interruption by Mr Grothuizen. I would like to stress once again that it is not a question of banning drugs as a means of pleasure to bother people. They are forbidden to protect people from the risks to health, risks they cannot overlook, and they are also prohibited because of the socially disruptive effects that may arise from their use. In my introduction, I said the necessary thing about the fact that, at some point in time, you will also have to go international with each other. Mr. Chairman. Mr Bishop asked: does the Minister wish to promote a drug-free generation? If you ask me that about the man and the minister, I say yes. If we can all work towards a generation that no longer smokes cigarettes, that is not what we are talking about today, but that is not good for health either, and we are focusing on reducing alcohol consumption and explaining that it can also have bad effects, then we must also focus on changing attitudes and, indeed, a drug-free generation. In my letter from the beginning of the summer on synthetic drugs, I also informed your Chamber about the change in mentality that is needed and the steps I am taking. Yesterday you adopted a motion by Mr Kuik calling on the government to take measures to reduce the use of drugs. In fact, I think that was a motion for a resolution from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u15	Fat-Faber!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u16	Excuse me, Fat-Faber. I also want to contribute to reducing use within my role and responsibilities. I'm talking to the Secretary of State about that, too. I'll discuss immediately the tests that Mr Voordewind asked for. There will be a debate with Secretary of State Blokhuis shortly. That is where the point should be raised, but I will certainly convey to him the wish that exists in the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u17	I would, of course, like to thank the Minister for his positive response. What interests me is what action the Minister has in mind and what period of time we can expect steps that will at least contribute to trying to reach such a drug-free generation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u18	Some Members, including Mr van den Berge and Mr Groothuizen, have rightly said that prevention alone is not enough. This is, of course, very much in the area of prevention, information and also aid. A number of your Members have already said that help is often about people who are in vulnerable positions and who are more likely to be tempted by drug use or who lend themselves to being used in such a drug gang. Again, I really need VWS' colleague to see how we put this together in a good way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u19	That is clear: with repression alone, we will never make it. Well, that's obvious, but I do have one more question. If we share this ideal, what is this minister's share of Justice and Security? I would like that to be more specific. There is no doubt about the need for cooperation. Everyone understands that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u20	Justice and Security will always have to ensure that it remains within its own domain. Of course, that's one thing that comes first. In the context of prevention, a health component is clearly involved, but the social disrupting component, as I call it, is also involved. I believe that, from the point of view of justice and security, we can also help to show what can happen in social development, so to speak. But also because your Chamber is still talking to Mr Blokhuis, I would like to come back to this together after that debate. Then we'll be able to fill that out properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u21	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u22	Finally, Mr President. I understand that aspect too is clearly given a big place. I would therefore like to call for this to be approached in its entirety, both from the point of view of aid, prevention and mention, as well as from the point of view of repression, which you cannot escape. I would urge the Minister to make a contribution to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u23	We'll take that with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u24	The Minister wants to work for a drug-free generation. That is also a bit in line with standardisation, because I assume that the Minister for the Standardisation of Drug Use, who already gave an example that 1 in 200 xtc users...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u25	250.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u26	250? I thought you said 200. But these are serious numbers of ecstasy users who end up in hospital with serious health problems. So how is it that the government is still funding pill testing? I understand that the Secretary of State is talking about this, but if the Minister himself says he is for a drug-free generation, is he prepared to put that point on the map and raise it in the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u27	I have already promised that I will pass this point on to College Blokhuis. However, as far as my responsibility is concerned, you must imagine that I am very impressed by the doctor from the OLVG in Amsterdam-Oost. I thought two weeks ago in Het Parool that his intensive care is very occupied with young people with health problems due to ecstasy. I have told you before in your Chamber that in conversations with the GGD in this region I found that the intensive care of the region hospitals when there is a big festival is sometimes completely occupied with people with health problems. In the context of my responsibility for the fight against crisis and other matters, that is something I have to look very closely at, apart from the fact that it is again a confirmation of the place on List I.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u28	I understand that it is a health problem, but it is also an enforcement problem. That is why I would also like to raise it with this Minister. He is responsible for the enforcement policy for hard drug use. We're talking about hard drugs here. If the Minister is indeed opposed to the standardisation of hard drugs, then we must take these hard drugs at all these parties and dance festivals. We shouldn't test them and say, "You can go ahead." Because then healthcare can solve the problems again. Once again, can this be an opportunity to counteract the normalization of the use of xtc, let me put it this way by sending out a strong signal and stopping those pill tests?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u29	In general terms, the answer is yes. Of course, that can certainly contribute to it. I understand. With regard to the enforcement at festivals, before the summer, I asked whether I should make money available for police capacity, so that the police at the entrance of major events...................................................................................................................................................................................... That question has been filled by people who think differently with the claim that I want to ban festivals, but it wasn't. There's something wrong with society, isn't there? That's where all this stuff comes in. But I do think it is also a domain of Mr Blokhuis, and I respect that. But you can be assured that we will move in together and that we will return to your Chamber. Mr. Chairman. I would like to say something about health. Mr Groothuizen and Mr Van Nispen also asked whether, in the international context, we should move towards a new hierarchy of drugs based on harmfulness. At international level, the risks of drugs are assessed by the World Health Organization. The World Health Organization is part of the United Nations. Subsequently, members of the Commission on Narcotic Drugs, including the Netherlands, vote on the inclusion of funds in the lists of international drug treaties. Those assessments shall be based on the harmfulness of those means. Like the Dutch lists, the international lists have different risk categories. The assessment of the resources to be included in the list is thus based on international consensus. Mr Van den Berge was curious about that, so I have already announced that I will send the reports which have been sent to the Chamber in public from the last few times. Then you will see that there is consensus.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u30	I thank the Minister for that commitment. I am indeed curious about the reports, but I am not only curious about the reports. I had also asked the Minister if he was prepared to argue in favour of an investigation into the effectiveness of the drug approach in different countries. I'm just curious about an international comparison. How are we doing compared to other countries? What does it do in terms of repression, prevention and decriminalisation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u31	I've said a few things about that before. What also goes with this question is that the risk assessment is international. I have just explained in detail how it is taking place. From there, policies take place, both in terms of repression and prevention and society.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u32	You said you wouldn't do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u33	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u34	Okay, then that's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u35	I know the views of this minister when it comes to decriminalisation, so I didn't ask. All I asked for was an international competition. I don't understand the fear very well. If the Minister is convinced I am clearly not saying that repression and enforcement are the only solution and that we are going to make it, should he not be so afraid of an international investigation? In that we can see if that's true. Or are there other countries with less repressive policies or a smarter combination of prevention, repression and decriminalisation that work better than our policies? I'm just asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u36	Two things. I mentioned a whole series of research reports at the beginning. I did not do that because of the report by Mr Tromp and Mr Tops, or indeed. Tops and Tromp, to be appreciated, but to support that this report confirms what is in a number of major reports, also international reports that give an idea of how it is international. Let us be very clear: the Netherlands has a few specific issues, including the fact that we are an ideal logistics hub. I am thinking of the port of Rotterdam and Schiphol, but also of the good accessibility of Brabant and Limburg for the large hinterland. This means that a very specific problem arises here, because of that 19 billion street value of the xtc produced in the Netherlands that was reported last year, even if that amount is not 19 billion but 16 billion of that immense amount, the vast majority of it is for abroad and not for the Netherlands. This is a specific problem which, for example, does not arise in certain other countries. So you can't put one-on-one the way in which you do that elsewhere, on this. In any case, I refer to some of the reports I mentioned earlier. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Dam asked about the possibilities for employers to test for alcohol and drugs in the workplace. That is indeed possible if there is a legal basis for this. At present this is regulated by sectoral legislation for certain professions; think of pilots, engineers and skippers. The Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment is now discussing with the social partners the specific cases in which there is a need for such tests. It confirmed this to the Chamber last Thursday in general consultation on working conditions. The Chamber will be informed of the outcome of that discussion. Then I guess it makes sense to look further. I would, however, like to make it very clear that I support the idea of looking at a further legal basis. Mrs Kuik asked about the measures relating to the import of designer drugs. These drugs are often produced in order to sell drugs that have not yet been banned under the Opium Act. There's something in the composition that makes it different. This for those who are not in that matter at home. Then you bypass the Opium Act, and you can make a good living with that, too. We call that the nps, the new psychoactive substances. This must also be able to be tackled vigorously. The Secretary of State of VWS is currently preparing a bill to criminalise the production and trafficking of new psychoactive substances. That bill will be in consultation this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u37	As a result of this, a short question. The inspection of VWS checks this, but it has only a very limited capacity. Social Affairs and Employment has had an extension of the tasks of the inspection. Isn't it wise to look at whether this can be done on this front in consultation with VWS, otherwise you will have the legislation but not the capacity to enforce it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u38	I can answer that very briefly. Yeah, that sounds like a good idea. I think it's good that the Secretary of State and I will come back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u39	Then let me take this as a commitment, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u40	That we'll come back to it? Okay. A small reservation. Mrs Kuik asks what I do to prevent empty buildings and barns from being used for drug production. It fears that this will only increase in the light of the problem of nitrogen. One of the most important things is to make the citizens and businesses that are affected; the people who have those buildings or barns that are empty. At present we have a number of activities funded by the undermining fund. I would like to mention one of the examples: the Approval mark Secure Outside Area. Within the framework of that label, entrepreneurs are fully taken into account in the question of how to prevent you from getting into this kind of criminal practice against will and thanks. The LNV, the Ministry of Agriculture, Nature Management and Fisheries, also pays special attention to this vacant agricultural property in the context of the regional deals. We must then see whether another destination can be given to it. That is already happening in the Achterhoek. These are a number of examples of what we are doing with each other. Then there's the Platform Safe Enterprise. This organises business meetings where partners such as the RIEC, the Regional Information and Expertise Centre, the Tax Administration, municipalities and entrepreneurs tell us: what is the problem and how can you best take action against it? Those meetings are intended for people in the agricultural area.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u41	Have these answers been given to Mrs Kuik's questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u42	Yes, at least this question, but I also have one about checks in ports.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u43	I'm watching. You'll have the floor in a moment, Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u44	There is another question from Mrs Kuik about cocaine trafficking and controls at the port. I've said something about logistics before. Due to the good logistics quality of our country you get that international cocaine trade also plays a significant role through Rotterdam. The Rotterdam triangle plus Customs have taken the initiative to create their own undermining image. That was published last May. That is the basis for further strengthening that safe and honest harbor. Tackling narcotics is really one of the priorities of the enforcement services at the moment. Simply carrying out more checks is not the solution. This is evident from a recent study by Erasmus University. This means that a number of other things are happening now. Firstly, cooperation with Belgium is being stepped up, including through an exchange of all kinds of best practices and so on. And then there is the maritime cooperation of seven EU Member States to combat drug trafficking on the transatlantic route in Europe at an early stage. There is also more cooperation with the source and transit countries through all kinds of upstream disruptions. Mr.Van Dam also referred to this and by creating all kinds of information positions in those countries, through liaison officers and KMar in production countries. And, of course, we need to bet even more on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u45	I'm going to do it succinctly, Mr. Chairman. Will there be extra liaisons abroad? Then the outskirts. More and more farmers and farms will stop. There's a lot of emptiness already, and that's only gonna be more. Just making it resilient doesn't make much sense. If those buildings are just gonna be empty, then you're really gonna have to start a major clean-up operation. My request to the Minister is therefore actually to ask for specific attention to be paid to this issue, so that we are not only informed through LNV and Mrs Schouten. Because this plays in the Achterhoek and in the North of the Netherlands, but with us in Brabant and in Limburg it is also very clearly a problem. That will actually only get bigger in the coming years. I'm finishing up, Mr. Chairman. I won't ask another follow-up question. If I ask our mayors who come into contact with it specifically, I say, if I had Columbus' egg, I would. They really refer to this point as the most important issue that needs to be settled: sufficient money for warm clean-up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u46	"Enough money for hot clean-up" is of course very easy to say, but then you have to have the whole field in view and see what the resources are. I do agree with Mrs Kuik on the following, and I myself have been committed to this in the past year. If you want to prevent people who are otherwise just good citizens from being pressured or tempted by something, from getting into these spheres, then you will first have to identify the areas in which this problem arises and then you will have to make people resilient in advance to ensure that they report it on time when this sort of thing happens. That does not alter the fact that Mrs Kuik rightly stresses that there is still a great deal to be done about this, even in the future. Mr. Chairman. Then I wanted to get to the subject of information exchange. I have already said a few things about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u47	Perhaps you can share with us, in order to assess when and when you can be interrupted, whether you have divided your speech into subjects?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u48	Yeah, yeah, I do, but I'm not saying that in advance, of course. I'll be back in a minute to pick up the subjects and launder them. I shall now turn to the questions put by Mr Van Dam and Mr Voordewind on policy coordination and a role for NCTV. I will then turn to the pooling of capacity and expertise, the question of a possible anti-drug unit and the evaluation of the approach and impact measurement. We are also going to talk about the talks with Amsterdam, the Bibob, the cooperation business pps, and finally the neighbourhood approach and privacy. In fact, that is where I come right back to the sharing of information.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u49	Yeah, clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u50	I wanted to say something about that now. I have already said a lot about this, so I am going to shorten the text. Much can already be done in the field of information sharing. That's not something I think of myself, but that's something the Council of State came up with in an opinion that the mayors and I asked for last year. The Council of State then advised on a few points. One of the things was whether information sharing is necessary, and if so, how we could extend the possibilities of that information sharing. In any case, I agree with the Council of State that we currently have the RIEC, the Regional Information and Expertise Centre, and the covenant in which the parties to that RIEC work together. This is also really aimed at the integrated approach to organised crime. So there are also a lot of signals coming in. They are analysed and information is gathered there. In addition, the Bibob Act is of course an important basis for information and information sources. This will prevent drivers from using permits, subsidies and orders to commit criminal offences. So that gives us a lot of possibilities. The police can then provide information to the mayor in the context of the maintenance of public order under the Police Data Act, and to the RIECs and other associations for purposes compatible with the exercise of the police mission. They are just examples of forms of information sharing that are really already there at the moment and that you can come a long way with. On a liquor and catering permit, the mayor can obtain information from both the police and the judicial authorities on the basis of the decision on police data and the decision on judicial data. The Data Processing Bill, which I mentioned in my introduction, is now with the Council of State. I say quite honestly that it has been a difficult journey to achieve this, because we really had to get the Personal Data Authority to consider it. That went well. It doesn't make much sense when we make a law on the sharing of information, which the highest judge later says: that can't really be done at all, that is contrary to human rights or I know what. I understand the egerness very well, because I have it myself, but we need to bite our teeth and make sure that we go through this process in a good way. I therefore expect the proposal to come to the Chamber as soon as possible. There will also be some points from the Council of State, but I think we really need to get on with that. Just a misunderstanding: the complaint that nothing can or may be done under the GDPR's regime, the General Data Protection Regulation. That's a misconception. There may be anything within the framework of the GDPR, but what is not possible is that you will exchange information with each other without it being determined for what is explicitly defined and justified purpose. I would like to point out that the GDPR is not as terribly new as it has been suggested, because we had legislation under the Privacy Directive since 1995. What does that mean? That means that you are not allowed to create a single bin, or file or dataset with all data for all purposes; that's just not allowed; there's also a bit in it, but that as a government organization you always process only those data that are sufficient, relevant and necessary for the purpose for which you want to use them. When we talk about tracking and prosecution, the possibilities are pretty crystallized. I have just mentioned a number of examples, for example under the Police Data Act. I'm not going to repeat it here. To a lesser extent, it applies to the processing of personal data for the purposes of the administrative approach of drug criminals or undermining. That's because it's a relatively newer practice. This raises the question of what information, for example, the mayor needs to carry out what task and what competence. As I have said, in order to gain more insight into these possibilities, I have asked the Council of State for information together with the mayors. That's what we got. At the moment, my ministry is working out the whole schedule, but this must of course be based on the needs of municipalities: what are the possibilities that you have? Then, of course, we need to know: what do you need for what purpose? Then municipalities must also have a good foundation. Then we will show on what, already existing power, that is not possible. We hope that the Data Sharing Partnerships Act will be an important addition to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u51	Have all the questions on the exchange of information been answered in the first term of the Members of Parliament?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u52	Mrs Kuik and Mrs Helder, who is no longer present, have drawn attention to this. I really want to stress that this is also a high priority for me, but that we have had to go through the projects that were there. That's what it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u53	I shall go first to Mr Van den Berge, because I have sent him back. I said, "First the minister and then you'll have the floor." You didn't hear that, but with gestures I indicated that a little bit. Mr Van den Berge, a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u54	I hear what the Minister says. He's doing all kinds of things, and I believe he is. However, we hear from the congregations that things are not fast enough and that they do not think it is far enough. I will be brief, so I will not go into all kinds of concrete examples. But I do hear examples from the municipalities that I think are: it is very strange that this information should not be shared between different services. I would like to call on the Minister whether it can go one step further and one step faster, because that is really very much needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u55	Then these municipalities must really take the small effort to contact me directly in my ministry, which may be me. We have set out very clearly, also in connection with the information provided by the Council of State, the route we are now setting up. That's really important. The development of the model protocol, inspired by the Ried Protocol, is also very important. Because then you can also organise the information sharing within the municipalities well. The municipalities are really involved in this. That's what we do with BZK. I say quite honestly, we do this with diligence and care.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u56	As much as I appreciate all the efforts made by the Minister, I find myself a little hesitant about what is happening here. It's about the sharing of information. Friend and enemy Now GroenLinks is not my enemy, but I don't know if he is my friend directly when it comes to privacy protection. The Security Research Council has written a report on it. In the report we're talking about today, I read it, too. The Commissioner in Amsterdam talks about the fact that privacy simply goes too far. I can't talk to a mayor or it's about it. So of that whole element of goal-binding, when I listen to the Minister so much, I think it's too much in the old groove for a problem that really has a lot more heads. Then we'll have to have that debate when that law comes. I can see you looking at this: hello, the time, right. I would like to express my opinion on this point. I am not waiting for lyrics that it is all okay and that it can all be done now. Of course, there can always be more legislation than we initially understood, but there is a real problem here. I hope that law can change this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u57	I'm not taking back anything I said. There's still a lot left. I've sent the Chamber the Council of State's opinion. That's what we've been talking about. Perhaps I was alone, but I believe that I concluded with the Permanent Chamber of Justice and Security that we need to work hard on the points made by the Council of State. Otherwise, when you return to the Personal Data Authority, you will be told: you do not meet the proportionality requirement. Mr Van Dam knows that, too. May I point out that this regulation was transposed by your Chamber just over a year ago. As I said, I am working very hard on this, but it has still taken ten months to reach agreement with the Personal Data Authority on the Data Processing Bill by collaborative partnerships. Let me say that this was an interesting but versatile and extensive discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u58	I think I'm more on the side of the minister than he might think. That's the whole point of privacy. There is a kind of green table discussion of all kinds of well-educated and well-imported people who watch it all and all see lions and bears. In addition, there is the practice that has to work with the legislation and encounters all kinds of barriers. That's the huge dilemma. Let me give you an example. The Minister sent a letter to the Chamber together with the Minister of Finance. I was very happy about that. There was an annex that was actually only about information sharing, about what is and is not possible there. I believe it was an eight-page document. When I read it, I only went with recess. That is the situation we are talking about here. It was too much for me. That's the point. Somehow there are different realities in privacy. Again, when the bill comes to the Chamber, we're going to look into it, but this will be the discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u59	Then that's clear. Then I'm going to see Mrs Yeşilgöz.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u60	I would like to join colleague Van Dam. I understand what the Minister is saying. I also understand the complexity of the things he's dealing with. At the same time, it is a very unsatisfactory situation. We are all told from different agencies, from private to public, that they have information, but that they cannot share it, which means that we cannot deal with those leaders. That's kind of what it's all about. Then we are stuck in privacy rules and laws. Something's coming to the room. There was a reason why I asked the Minister if we couldn't speed things up. Can't we say we're going to do a pilot in a demarcated area where we're going to exchange information? Then let's go find the boundaries and let the judge whistle us back. I'd rather we wait, wait for what's possible. In the meantime, we continue to hear that agencies are getting in trouble. They want to handle it themselves, but they can't share the information.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u61	As Minister of Justice and Security, I cannot bear the responsibility for having to be heard by the judge by means of legislation. Mrs Yeşilgöz will understand that. She may address me at the pace and things like that, but this legislation must be such that after the end of the day the Chamber says: we have had some of that and it is because of the test. That's one. Then two. I would like to emphasise this. When I was a minister not so long ago, there was a call for more information sharing. I have discussed this with the relevant authorities, including the Personal Data Authority. It was said back then that opportunities were still unexploited. The mayors of the National Council of Security and Police and I have decided together to submit it to the Council of State. The Council of State has made it very clear that there are still many possibilities and you must work them out together. That is what we are doing now with speed. You may constantly pull me in the vein of: friend how far along are you with it? We really do that with speed. We have clarity this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u62	Good. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u63	No, I'd like to make a commitment through you to Mrs Yeşilgöz...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u64	Oh. You can always do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u65	...that that protocol is still there this calendar year. Then we are also a lot further on the point of the extra possibilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u66	Okay, then we're gonna watch it together this year. However, I do think that I can ask the Minister of Justice to look up the boundaries. I do not want the Minister to go over that, but he would have the support of at least the VVD to look up those boundaries. Because I think that's really urgent and really necessary. I look forward to having this discussion later this year, but I agree with what Mr Van Dam said: if we do not feel that we are getting closer to practice and the problems there, I will come up with my own proposal on this, because we are going to look for the boundaries as far as the VVD is concerned. We're just gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u67	But those boundaries have been really sought out, and I would like to emphasise that once again. Otherwise, I wouldn't have had ten months of discussion with the Dutch Data Protection Authority.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u68	Yes. Mr...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u69	That's what you should expect from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u70	Mr Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u71	Speaking of the search for borders, I would like to give one example. There's a request from a bank for a mortgage. The bank manager thinks, "Hey, wait a minute, that might go to the wrong party." Where's he gonna get that information? This story really happened. That bank manager then stops a note stating what's going on under the wiper of the local mayor's car. That mayor can't answer that. He therefore writes the answer, which is best done by the bank manager, namely not to give a mortgage, also on that note and puts it back under the wiper. The next day the note is gone: fortunately, the mortgage was not provided. Can't we just make this a little easier? It's not supposed to be that way, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u72	Let me say this. I find it very difficult to respond to anecdotal examples. But be assured that Mr Hoekstra and I are trying to break down some of the walls, as has been mentioned earlier, about the obstacles that remain in the information sharing with banks, within the limits of what goes with good privacy protection. You'll find that in the delivery note, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u73	I'm taking this as a commitment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u74	It's already in the letter. Anyway...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u75	Okay. I'd still like to ask if you could put some pace into it. There are still a few points to be dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u76	Let's see.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u77	On the previous point, Mrs. Chicken? I see that it is; go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u78	Carefulness is important, I get that. After all, a number of things have also been flagged back because they didn't comply with the privacy rules; for example, think of the traffic light model that suddenly couldn't. So I get that. But at the same time, we notice that it's all over the place. Whether it's the UWV, the care or the banks, it's all difficult. But there has been a request for solutions for five years. Legislation should not, in principle, take five years. That is my first point. My second point, and that is my question, is as follows. That model agreement that is now coming only regulates part of the information, in particular the intermunicipal, and not the information with third parties. How far are we going? Let me give you one small example. I know Minister Hoekstra is in the process of giving banks more opportunities to share information. Well, at least he does. But it's not an obligation. So each time we intend to regulate very small particles, then it takes a long time and then it doesn't happen or it happens halfway. I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u79	As far as the Hoekstra issue is concerned, we're in it together. We are faced with exactly the same obstacles. You know, I get it very well, and I even find it encouraging that people say: if you want to deal with it, make sure you get the information sharing really sharp. I have said a few things about this which I am not going to repeat here. But I told you once that privacy should never be the shield for organized criminals. Period. That's my starting point when I see how we get it right. But I also believe that I and Sander Dekker, the Minister for Legal Protection, also have a duty to ensure that, in the meantime, the privacy of non-villainous citizens remains in a good way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u80	Finally, because this point has been sufficiently discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u81	I get that. But it's incredibly essential at the same time, because everyone you ask calls this the biggest stumbling block. I'm just finishing up. I am concerned about the legislative process, because I think it only regulates part of it. That would be a shame to me, because that would be a waste of time again. It's really 5:12, maybe 5:12. So please take a look at that look and the assignment that we as Members of Parliament have given you here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u82	Yes. There was a question following the Van der Staaij motion which was tabled at another debate. The Minister for Legal Protection will return to your Chamber on my behalf in the autumn. Very soon about the money laundering. 29 million will be made available to strengthen the fight against fraud, money laundering and undermining. The further distribution will be discussed in the framework of Princess Day. Then there's the 10-point money laundering plan-Van der Linde. We've written that plan of action. Your room has requested a response to that plan. It precedes the ongoing consultations on, among other things, the Implementation Act amending the Fourth Anti-Money Laundering Directive. I'll get back to you on that. Mr Van Nispen asked about the gatekeeper function of private money laundering institutions and the like. That's what we sent the plan of action for. We think there are three pillars for that gatekeeper function. One: the effectiveness needs to be increased. Two: barriers need to be raised to make it more difficult for criminals to bring their illegal income into the regular financial system. Finally, something that some of you have already said: we will really need to strengthen the detection and prosecution on these issues. The approach to criminal money flows, to which Mrs Yeşilgöz and Mr Van Nispen were right to draw attention, is really a spearhead of my approach. I am not going to discuss this with Mr Van Nispen today, and we have done so before about the numbers of recent years and so on. I agree with what he says. We need to make sure that in the years to come we are really going to be able to achieve results, because they are the ones most affected by the Follow the Money approach and the taking away. Soon GroenLinks' question about the real estate. Right now, we're working with the Home Office to investigate the criminal use of it. It also examines which tools are useful for private parties to prevent abuse. If we have the results of that investigation, we will return to your Chamber. The integral take-off...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u83	A brief question, Mr. Van den Berge.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u84	A brief question to the Minister. Is it also looking at administrative possibilities that could be created? I hear him talk about private law opportunities to deal with such abuse, but is that also considered in the same investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u85	It is an investigation into useful tools for private parties to prevent abuse. The administrative powers are, of course, much more directed towards ourselves as a government to see how we can intervene. Mr Groothuizen had a question about the complete removal objective. Additional efforts are also being made to this end. We have also included in the Safety Agenda the agreement that an integral take-off monitor will be developed that will provide insight into its results based on existing registrations. We're working with all the parties right now to get to that pickup monitor. An integral objective is not yet included.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u86	I almost got very happy, but then the Minister said his last sentence. Why not? Why is this integral objective not part of this? That's a clear advice from the WODC. That advice, which has been available for a year now, I can at least follow it all myself. Because I'm pointing out to the Minister on page 52 and beyond. It says that in the workplace everyone is always convinced that you have to deal with this together, but that in organisations the management is mainly looking at how things are going in their own toko. That's just not a problem you're gonna solve. Then why doesn't the Minister do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u87	Well, the ultimate goal is, of course, an improved overall direction for the implementation of that Security Agenda and the realisation of the ambitions in the field of the taking away of criminal assets. But I will inform the Chamber at the end of this year about the concrete steps the working group has proposed to improve this monitoring, what follow-up actions there are and how we can then achieve an integral objective.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u88	Mr. Groothuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u89	This isn't exactly an answer. It's nice that this monitoring is coming and that gives us insight. But the Minister himself says: there will not be an objective. I ask him, why not? Because the advice of actually everyone who knows about it is: do it, because that helps.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u90	Now Mr Groothuizen had not heard my last sentence, because I made a commitment in it. I can see someone walking to the microphone. I have promised that in that letter which I will write at the end of this year, I will also return to that question of the integrated objective.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u91	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u92	I'm just gonna put it in my pocket, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u93	Well, that saves a motion, I hope.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u94	I do not know if that means that the commitment has been signalled.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u95	And now you're going through the following points quickly, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u96	This was quick for me, Mr. Chairman. Anyway, I understand I need to speak at your pace now. I don't know if I'm gonna make it to that level.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u97	Yes, you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u98	How is the impact of strengthening the approach measured? I would add that we have discussed this in detail with your Chamber before, but it is good to get that straight. The implementation of the reinforcement plan shall be monitored by the WODC over the duration. I also explained at the time that we did this on purpose in order to evaluate, as it is called, learning. During the implementation of these projects, in which a lot of money goes into them, we can also adjust them if necessary. For example, we can say: well, we need to adjust this part. We can therefore share interim findings. This also gives the partners an opportunity to learn from it. I have asked the regions and the national partners to report to me every year. I'm getting a first progress report by the end of the month. I will inform your Chamber of that progress prior to the budget debate. A further question was asked by Mr Van Dam about the coordination of the approach at the central level. I find this a very interesting thought. Of course, we have the Strategic Board of Undermining. There are a number of relevant government parties in this. But if I understand correctly, Mr Van Dam says: you should also put more foreign connections in there and you should perhaps also give it a more active role as a whole. So I say again: I think it is an interesting idea, but we must, of course, look at all the responsibilities between government officials in the cabinet. But, as I said, I certainly think this is a thought that perhaps, in the context of the budget debate, we should continue to work together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u99	I see that Mr Van Dam wants to respond to this again, but I want to see how far the Minister is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u100	I've only got four very thin files left, Mr. Chairman, where there's only one answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u101	Mr. Van Dam is asking a very short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u102	I would ask the Minister perhaps to send a brief letter on this matter prior to the budget debate, setting out the possibilities there. Then we have a little more content to talk about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u103	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u104	I admit that I will write a letter indicating the framework of the Strategic Board Undermining, why this is so and what you could possibly change further. There has also been talk of pooling capacity and expertise. That is indeed an interesting thought. I must tell you that I am open to all the ideas that can further strengthen the approach in the future. I think I'll have to get a good look at the official proposal first. Because let's face it: nationally, the FIOD, the police and the D.A. are already working together in so-called combi teams, for example, on tackling more complex money laundering cases. But the elaboration of such a thought, if it comes, could certainly be a reinforcement. We are talking to Amsterdam, I say to Mrs Yeşilgöz. There are intensive contacts about the approach with that municipality but also with many other municipalities. I would like to stress that the triangle in Amsterdam is, of course, responsible for setting priorities and making choices in the fight against crime, but I was able to see in her speech that Mrs Yeşilgöz herself sees that as well. That is a very clear point. It has been said, I believe, by Mr Van den Berge or Mr Groothuizen, that I have lost it for a while, but I encourage it and I welcome the fact that this Amsterdam city council itself has asked for the relevant report, which has been produced. It is not just said that there should be cops, because then you come to the contradiction that Mrs Helder mentioned earlier. You're gonna have to look at what priorities you see and what you're sticking to, and then you're gonna move on. Mr. Chairman. Then the Bibob.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u105	Have you answered all the questions on this issue?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u106	Yes. I don't have much to say about that anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u107	Okay. Mrs Yeşilgöz, short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u108	Sure. I fully agree with the Minister that it is primarily a power and a task of the triangle, in this case of Amsterdam, but I would like the Minister to remain in talks there. The moment the concerns about the prioritisation of the triangle or the board grow, I'll come back to the door. Of course, there will come some time when we are going to be very concerned about that. I wanted to give the signal here and ring the bell that I'm really worried about. It is now up to Amsterdam, but I hope the Minister will stay in touch. If those concerns grow, I'll come back to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u109	I keep talking to my place of residence all the time, at least with the board of that place. Mr. Chairman. Then the Bibob procedure. Mrs Helder is asking for simplification by being able to reject a permit more quickly. The current amendment extends the scope and makes the application of that law more efficient and effective. This is also the subject of the second tranche of Bibob legislation. And then Mrs Helder pointed out a number of measures against shielding structures that make it easier to investigate stromand constructions. I agree with her rightful point. Then I'm almost through, but Mrs Yeşilgöz had another question about the pilot information sharing. I have already said a great deal about information sharing. Don't get me wrong: we are going to finish a few things together this year and then, as Mr Van Dam has already announced, we are going to look together to see if we have everything or if we still do not have any legislative options. Finally, Mr President. At the end, I would like to touch on Mr Krol's twelve points. I was gonna save it for the last time. The best part of it was used to be called. Some of you have mentioned the neighbourhood approach. I agree with your Chamber that we should not only fight but also reduce the social ground. For example, Mrs Kuik rightly pointed out the successful approach in Rotterdam-Zuid. This means a number of things in the reinforcement plans: removing the breeding ground and combating the recruitment of potential growthers in the criminal drug circuit. The top 600 approach has already been discussed a few times. At the moment, my colleague in the Interior and Kingdom Relations is already preparing for a further approach to problem areas. In the Strategic Board Undermining this is really high on the agenda. We will inform your Chamber more about that. Then all I have is Mr Krol's twelve-point plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u110	You're not gonna go one by one... Do you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u111	For the next two hours, I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u112	I'm going to see Mr Voordewind first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u113	Now I'm sorry I only turned in five points. But I asked a question about the NCTV. Am I to understand that the Minister also takes that point into account in the letter he has promised?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u114	Yes, I'd like to include that in that letter. I should have mentioned that explicitly, you are right. Apologies.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u115	Then that's clear, too. Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u116	Sorry, I also have a question about the process, about the neighbourhood approach. You refer to the Minister of the Interior and say that this will be returned to you. Could you make that concrete for me, please?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u117	Well, that's what the colleague of the Interior and Kingdom Relations and I will inform your Chamber. In the second term, I can be somewhat more specific about the deadlines.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u118	Then the Minister comes back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u119	Mr. Chairman. Then there is another piece by Mr Krol. He had a number of points I've studied with interest. I think we have to note that the proposals are very different in nature. In a number of proposals, I see opportunities to get to work on them. I am thinking here of the proposal for a landlord's register, or of the plea for measures to combat drug smuggling and drug dumping at sea. A number of proposals should be examined in greater detail. There was, for example, a proposal in the context of official corruption. But then you also have to look at a Constitutional change, which I am not the first to make. I would therefore like to say that I am going to respond in writing to Mr Krol's twelve points in good time for the budget debate. Then we can also take it in context. I hope he can live with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u120	Madam President. I can live with that, but I would ask you to suspend for five minutes immediately between the Minister's term and our second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u121	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u122	Then I can get my head together to see which motions I'm going to file and which ones I'm not going to file.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u123	Then that's what we'll do. I think the Minister is ready. With which we have indeed come to the second term. But we'll do that after a five-minute suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u124	We have arrived at the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Krol on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As announced, I had twelve motions ready, but I put seven in the waiting room and now there are five left. I'll start with the first one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there are billions of euros in the Dutch drug industry;]] [[calls on the Government to examine, before the forthcoming budget treatment of Justice and Security, the possibility of setting up a structural drug fund in which stolen money from drug criminals is earmarked to combat drug crime,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Krol and Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24077-430]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u126	Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas citizens can make a decisive contribution to the detection of drug criminals;]] [[Whereas some of them prefer to keep their mouths shut for fear of possible reprisals;]] [[Whereas a reward can bring them across the line to report drug criminals;]] [[calls on the government to create a generous system of remuneration for those who have the courage to declare drug criminals,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24077-431]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u127	Yes, chairman, on the previous motion. It's complicated. I'll have to vote on it on Tuesday. I do not have the text in front of me, but this is my only chance to ask a question about it for clarification. Is it just the drug crime? Does it say in the operative part that the crime money that was taken is going into a fund and that it's only focused on drug crime? My second question is: what if, in a year, there was not enough crime money recovered by the government? Is this at the expense of tackling organised crime? That seems very undesirable to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u128	In any case, this motion aims to ensure that structuralally more money goes to those municipalities that are now running out of money. Of course, a basic amount will always be needed, but if this is added, I'll give you that on a note. It's going in the right direction. They're getting shorter, Madam President. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in the Netherlands, it is not the drug criminals but the general interest and democratically elected parliament that should continue to serve;]] [[Calls on the Government to prohibit convicted drug criminals from running for election to public office, public office and public administration;]] [[calls on the Government also to impose a professional ban on officials, directors and representatives of the people convicted of bribery,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24077-432]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u129	And now two really short ones. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas vacant premises are rented out to drug criminals;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibility of creating a rental register register registering the private rental of business premises,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24077-433]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u130	And the last one, very briefly. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas drug and money dogs make a fantastic contribution to the detection of drug crime;]] [[calls on the government to increase the number of drug and money dogs to 1,000,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24077-434]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u131	And that's only five seconds over time! Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u132	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Dam on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u133	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his comprehensive response to all the questions we have put to him. I welcome the commitment to receive a letter on the coordination of the fight against drugs. For the sake of clarity, this should not be an alternative to the very right local and regional approach, but should be precisely the roof on the house of that local and regional approach. I have one motion. It's about the alcohol and drug tests. Before I read the motion a little explanation. In view of the Minister's reaction, I have just looked at what Secretary of State Van Ark said, and it is true that Minister Dekker has also said a lot about it. But all this has its own perspective, such as the protection of privacy or working conditions at work. I believe, on the contrary, that these drug tests and alcohol tests can also contribute to the resilience of society in general in the fight against drugs. That's why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas standardisation of the use of narcotic drugs in society needs to be stopped;]] [[whereas this is a task which is not only on the board of police and justice, but everyone in society must be able to assume their responsibilities;]] [[Whereas it is also important, in the interests of occupational safety, to have a drug-free workplace;]] [[noting that, since the introduction of the GDPR, employers have no longer been allowed to take alcohol and drug tests;]] [[noting that there is currently no legal basis for carrying out those tests;]] [[calls on the government to create a legal basis for employers' alcohol and drug testing,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Dam and Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24077-435]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u134	In recent times, however, motions on prevention and public health have also been signed by Mr Voordewind of the Christian Union. Mr President, I would like to conclude by saying a few words. I believe that, in the fight against drugs and undermining, the whole discussion on privacy, which has also been discussed extensively in the debate, is a very important one. That is why I am very happy to look forward to the debate on the legislation that is coming to us in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u135	Thank you, Mr. Van Dam. I now give the floor to Mrs Helder on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u136	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, a thousand excuses for the fact that I missed the Prime Minister's first term. No one will have missed the fact that my group chairman has to answer to the judge. That is why I missed this part of the debate because of activities elsewhere, which were unfortunately necessary. I regret to conclude that the coalition parties did not support the debate that my group chairman has just asked for. That comes only after the statement, which has deprived my group chairman of the opportunity to add some more content to the fantastic plea of the Knoops team. I'm very sorry about that. This also does not allow us to do our full job as a representative of the people, because I cannot divide myself into two. So again, excuse the fact that I wasn't there. As a result, I confine myself to tabling the motion I announced in the first term. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the scale of drug crime is spreading and, despite all the efforts of all those involved, including the police, the judiciary and the mayors, is still gaining ground with all the dangers to society;]] [[Considers that a long-term commitment on a broad front is therefore needed, both police, judicial, administrative and also financially, in order to successfully combat current drug crime;]] [[calls on the government to set up a structural undermining fund,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Helder, Mr Bishop, Mr Krol, Mr Van Nispen and Mr Kuik.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24077-436]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u137	Mr President, I would like to make a final point. I saw that Mr Krol has also tabled a motion on a structural drug fund, as he calls it. I've got the text right here. What's my surprise? In fact, it should not be surprising at all that this motion was co-signed by the VVD. Then I'll see we're gonna talk about a word game. You want a structural undermining fund. Mr Van Nispen was right to ask how that would be filled. My approach, supported by several colleagues, is that it is being filled. Indeed, you should not make it dependent on the stolen criminal profits, because if they stagnate once, the mayors are empty-handed. You can't make a policy like that. There must therefore be a structural fund. I see the orange letters of the VVD again appearing on Twitter: "The VVD supports a structural undermining fund." That's all bullshit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u138	Thank you, Mrs Helder. I now give the floor to Mrs Kuik on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u139	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his answers. I don't have any motions, because I'm filing motions the moment I feel that that's helping or that it's necessary to put a move in. But of many of the issues we have discussed, namely the sharing of information, the Minister says that we need to wait, because legislation is still coming. I am not going to do it fast enough, but then we will assess it, and then we will, by means of amendments and motions, adapt the legislation accordingly. The same applies to a structural undermining fund, although I have co-signed a motion. It is also a good thing that we can see whether there can be an additional collection fund. However, I do expect that we will be surprised by Princess Day and that a structural amount will be allocated for undermining, because we all see the importance of it. This also applies to the VVD and the CDA. The CDA has also spoken harshly today: that should come. That's what I expect. Finally, Mr President. I asked for something very strongly. You also have to do something on the preventive side. Marco Pastors is working on a good approach in Rotterdam-Zuid. We also need to do this in other cities, but we are still waiting for a plan of action. So what is the conclusion of this debate? Not so much yet, I regret to say, when the urgency is high. It still feels a little despondent and powerless. I hope that's not the impression the Minister wants to leave with us. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u140	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. I now give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u141	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, thank you to the Minister for answering the questions. I hesitated for a moment whether or not I would file a motion that we had prepared. The rule that we apply internally to the SGP is: if you have prepared a motion and there will be a clear and unambiguous commitment, then you do not submit the motion. We are relying on confidence in the govern ment. There has been a clear and clear commitment for an important part, only the tail did not quite satisfy. There is no doubt that the Minister intends to comply with this. So he'll be able to give a positive opinion on the motion later. It is not a lack of confidence in the Minister's acting, but I would like to have it put in place. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the standardisation of drug use has a significant impact on safety and public health;]] [[noting that the use of drugs among young people is nevertheless becoming more and more normal;]] [[calls on the Government to express the ambition to achieve a drug-free generation and to take appropriate measures to this end,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop and Mr Helder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24077-437]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u142	The Minister has unreservedly expressed the ambition to create a drug-free generation. But in the case of the interruption, it was a bit stuck in the way of taking appropriate measures. Hence this motion. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u143	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. I now give the floor to Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u144	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for replying. I indicated in my first term that sharing information is a very important point. That is what several colleagues have said. The Minister was clear: there will be a few more items in the Chamber this autumn, so that we can also talk about the protocol. So I'll leave it at that for now, but we'll get back to that. Mr. Chairman. I believe that the Minister is giving me another response to the issue of SMEs. The small entrepreneurs who sit in shopping streets are almost literally bullied away or intimidated or see all this happening around them. I know this is happening for entrepreneurs, but I would very much like specific attention to be paid to small entrepreneurs. I would also like a response from the Minister to the point I mentioned about involving financial experts, people who can temporarily volunteer with the police. My predecessor of the VVD on this portfolio, Arno Rutte, has also proposed this in the field of cyber security. I would also like that for financial experts. I'd like to have another reaction to that. Mr. Chairman. I am also pleased that I was able to co-sign Mr Krol's motion. It's about a separate fund where the takeaway money could come in. That is something that needs to be investigated. That motion is a very old wish of the VVD. It's also in our election program. I am glad that, with this motion, hopefully with the support of my fellow Members, we can have an investigation into it for the next budget, so that we can better map it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u145	I have a question on the motion for a resolution on item No. 430 by Mr Krol, who she co-signed. Mrs Yeşilgöz just referred to that herself. This motion is actually very strange for three reasons. Firstly, it is an investigation into what we all want here, namely a structural fund. You don't have to investigate, you just can. Even the minister said that's what he really wants. Secondly, should there be such a structural fund? That shouldn't depend on how much crime money is being taken. Thirdly, it is therefore very strange to use this only to combat drug crime, while there are so many other forms of organised crime that we also want to tackle. Can Mrs Yeşilgöz respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u146	I can do that, Mr. Chairman. This really is about money you take from criminals. That money now goes to the general budget. We say you just have to put that in the security book. I think we share that in the Chamber. Put it in for safety. Then you can catch more criminals and there's more street thugs. That's what this motion says. Now you get a very complicated answer from The Hague. That is why I am pleased that research is being carried out, and that is also necessary, on how to organise it in this house so that the money actually ends up with this minister and not in other jars, which has so far been the case. That is why I am pleased that Mr Krol has said: I would like a research motion for the next budget so that we can look at it together. I find that annoying, because it's all The Hague, but the bottom line is that I want to use part of the money you take from criminals to catch more criminals. I think some of the colleagues here want that, too. That's what we're gonna do, I hope.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u147	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u148	I don't think it's so much a Hague answer, or maybe it is. I just think it's a really weird answer and maybe it's the same thing. It is very strange to say: we want two things; we want to tackle organised crime, and we think it is important for reasons of principle to take away crime money, and that has everything to do with one another. Why would you have to tie one to the other? Why not just say that we are investing in the fight against crime and doing what is necessary to do so? In addition, there are very fundamental and moral reasons to ensure that crime does not pay off. You don't have to link that up and make it dependent on each other, do you? Indeed, if it fails to take crime money, then apparently we have less money to deal with drug crime in your proposal. I think it is a very strange link, and I do not think it is desirable in principle either. We just have to say that we want this. We want a structural fund to fight crime and we have to do everything we can to take away crime money. Don't put that together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u149	I understand it sounds weird reading it this way, but it doesn't say that. It doesn't say that. This cabinet invests in tackling undermining and tackling crime, including by 100 million in this period. It is also said here: make sure that you can also use the money you take from criminals. So it doesn't say what Mr Van Nispen reads. I get that this sounds confusing, but that's just not what it is. You are tackling crime and undermining, and we have also made funds available for this, and at the same time I would like the money we take from scum to be used again to tackle even more scum.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u150	On this point, I would like to support Mr Van Nispen. I do that a little bit by interrupting Mrs Yeşilgöz. There are two discussions. One discussion is whether there would be room in this country to exploit criminal power that has been taken away for criminal justice. That is a fundamental discussion, and you can be in favour of it or against it. That's one discussion. The other discussion is that there should be a structural fund and I will leave it in the middle for a moment whether it is a drug or undermining fund. I have to tell you: would it not be possible for this first motion to be about this discussion and that what Mrs Helder is always saying, now, is about the structural fund? Then we really have the substantive discussion that fits in with the substantive debate we have had here. Then we can vote on it. Then it is a very clear discussion and we do not have the hassle together. Then perhaps we can help the file further. That would be my call.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u151	Now I'm going to answer something that I don't know if Mr Krol recognizes. I think it is precisely those two lines that Mr Van Dam outlines here. On the one hand, you are indeed having the discussion, whether or not principled, about what you are taking money from. That's what this motion says. Find out if you can use that in this corner to deal with more criminals. In addition, there is the discussion that Mrs Helder referred to: should you not free up 100 million and even more structurally to tackle undermining? I think it's two separate texts, separate motions. I don't see Mr Krol moving, so I think it's going pretty well here. Then that's two separate cases. The motion before us, the Krol/Yeşilgöz motion, deals with the matter of principle. As we have in our electoral programme, money that you take away from bad guys, put it back in order to catch more bad guys.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u152	I don't think I should venture to interpret motions. It is best for the proposers to do so themselves. I would simply like to make my request, which would also be the best way forward politically. I have done so clearly, and with that the proposers must do whatever they want.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u153	Now you see exactly where it goes wrong when a new spokesperson comes up who thinks he can show off the feathers of an old point. I'm just gonna say it nicely. Look, what we wanted in the past was an undermining fund. That's when it was called an undermining fund. It's a semantic discussion about what it's called, but I don't care at all. The intention was indeed that the government's money would simply go into it. That would be nice, too. When, fortunately, the mayors got involved in this discussion, if I am not mistaken, I don't want to fail anyone, Mayor Aboutaleb said it must be a revolver fund, which must always be filled up, and asked if it wouldn't be an idea to allow stolen criminal assets to land somewhere, perhaps in such a fund. Now two lines are walked in one go. The Minister has set up a one-time undermining fund. What my group wants, and this is supported by more colleagues, is a structural undermining fund. In addition, I would like to see whether criminal assets could ever flow there or go to a separate fund. I don't care. What my group has been wanting for a long time, and this is supported by many colleagues, Mr O'Donnell, is simply that there will be a structural undermining fund from the government so that the mayors can move forward with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u154	In my view, that is simply the explanation of the small debate that Mr Van Dam and I have just had and what this motion also says. Our election programme clearly contains a fund where you can simply re-use money for security. That's what this motion says. This is about something else at the same time. We have discussed this at length. In my view, the summary is: as smart as possible and with as much resources as possible to tackle crooks. I hope we can all agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u155	Thank you, Mrs Yeşilgöz. I now give the floor to Mr Van Nispen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u156	Mr. Chairman. If the VVD had wanted to tackle crooks with as much financial resources as possible, it would have been able to support opposition proposals for additional investments in the fight against crime for a long time. That has never been done. That's too bad. Mr. Chairman. This minister was very clear about one thing. "Under this minister, legalization is not an option," he said pretty tough. But the question is whether that is wise. I'm not saying it's easy, because of course you have the export. We have all emphasised this. However, it is a pity that under this minister there is really no way of even considering a possible more sensible drug policy. I think that's a really missed opportunity. The SP wants more investment in detection capacity. They are very much needed to be able to detect weapons and all kinds of labs and you name it all. For the detectives, but also for the neighborhood agents. Just now it was about that one-off fund of 100 million. So we're going to make that structural. Apparently, we all do. Even the minister wants it. But are we going to find that in the pieces next Tuesday? Why can't we just meet today if we want to? That is why I wholeheartedly support Mr Helder's proposal. I have argued extensively that we should focus on the upper world, the corporate boardrooms. There are also criminals who disrupt society. The SP wants more attention to be paid to that. The Minister has not contradicted this, so he will very much agree. We are getting more information about the handling of money laundering and the taking away of criminally obtained money, but I do not think that is enough. This has got to be a lot better. Follow the money. The Minister also calls this a spearhead. I believe so, but the previous minister of the VVD said so too, and the minister before that, of the VVD, said so too, and the minister before that, of the CDA, said as well: we are going to take more money from criminals. Mr President, I have a motion on this subject, which reads as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is not clear why crime money is not well represented in the police and the judiciary and why it is not adequately taken away while on paper there has been a long-standing focus on financial detectives and the taking away of crime money;]] [[Considering that the Royal Notarial Professional Organisation, in response to Tops and Tromp's investigation, calls for further investigation into organised crime and the involvement of notaries;]] [[believes that crime should not pay, but that it is still not enough to really hit criminals substantially where it really hurts them: in their wallet;]] [[calls on the Government to make a more active effort to monitor criminal flows of money, including the role of financial service providers, accountants and notaries in embezzlement of criminally obtained money, and to inform the Court of Justice about that investigation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Van Nispen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24077-438]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u157	Thank you, Mr President. My fear was before that it would be a debate in which we would take extreme positions on a lot of things, but that was really not so bad to me; I think we agree on a lot of things. I do see a major point of dispute, and that is what Mr Van Nispen was referring to. That is the question of whether it would not be wise to think about it, however difficult it may be, because I also realize that it is necessary to deal with drugs in a different way, because this really seems to me to be a deadly road. On this point, unfortunately, I do not see much movement in the Minister's mind, but perhaps there is a progressive view. A few weeks ago in De Telegraaf, the Minister spoke quite firmly about the festivals. That is why my group needs to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas festivals are positive and cozy expressions of culture where people come to enjoy their favorite music and relax with like-minded people;]] [[speaks of wanting to maintain the Netherlands as a festival country and therefore to see no reason to impose restrictions on municipalities when organising it,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Groothuizen and Mr Bergkamp. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24077-439]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u158	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the Minister for his answers and his colleagues for the good debate. I too was a little concerned in advance, because there were quite a few tweets and rough statements about this debate in the media and also in the social media, but I think we have had a good substantive debate today. It is indeed a pity to see that there seems to be some sort of taboo to better regulate, decriminalize and legalize forms of drug production. That was true even when I asked the Minister in an interrupting debate to argue in the UN context to see what this international war on drugs and this repressive approach in the Netherlands has brought us in recent decades. I agree with colleagues that there is no confusion about drugs in the Netherlands, but we have, of course, taken over parts of it. That is why I have a motion to ask for a ruling from the Chamber. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a UN conference on the fight against drugs is held annually in Vienna;]] [[Whereas an effective approach is characterised by a sensible balance between repression, prevention and decriminalisation;]] [[calls on the Government to undertake a UN investigation into the effectiveness of the drug approach over the past five decades, comparing the approaches of different countries, and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Berge. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24077-440]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u159	Then I have a second motion, Mr President, but I am not going to table unnecessary motions, so if the Minister says 'we are going to do this' and he says 'we', then I will withdraw that motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas municipalities are calling for more tools to counter the interrelation between the upper and lower worlds, including in the fields of information sharing and structural funding;]] [[calls on the government, in consultation with the municipalities, to identify bottlenecks and propose structural measures to combat the interdependency of the sub- and sub-world, and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Berge. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24077-441]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u160	I have tabled this motion because I have heard the Minister's intention to do so, but I have heard very few concrete commitments and measures. But, as I said, if the Minister is going to say that he is going to do so, I would also be happy to withdraw the motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u161	Thank you, Mr. Van den Berge. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Voordewind on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u162	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Where Mr Van Nispen may be disappointed by the statements made by this minister, we are very pleased and pleased with the promise that he will at least strive for a drug-free generation. I also heard him say that he wants to get rid of the normalization of drugs. To underline that, I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the use of drugs in the Netherlands is punishable;]] [[considers that public authorities should not pursue policies that contribute to the standardisation of the use of drugs;]] [[calls on the Government to examine what measures it can take to prevent the normalization of drug use and to make concrete proposals to this end,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voordewind and Mr Van Dam. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24077-442]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u163	In fact, I see exactly the same problem as with this much discussed prevention motion. I was in favour of prevention until I heard your motion from Christian Union and CDA, because I have no idea what's behind it. What exactly are the measures that result from this? But let me confine it to this motion. What measures could be included? For I am not going to vote in favour of a motion calling on the government to take all kinds of measures which I do not know at all what they are. Maybe I don't agree with that. You mentioned in your input the testing of ecstasy pills at parties. If you want to ban or abolish the testing of ecstasy pills, it seems to me to be a major danger to public health and I will not agree to that. That's why I can't support a motion like that, can I? So what exactly does Mr Voordewind mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u164	I believe that the use of hard drugs is a major threat to public health. Mr Van Nispen is in favour of legalising this. If we do not tackle this adequately, if we do not put sufficient enforcement into place, there will be more victims. We've already seen the first harrowing situations. We've heard the Minister's reports about what the emergency services are doing on Sundays these days.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u165	Finally, Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u166	You can't have a debate like that, because I didn't argue for the legalisation of hard drugs. I do not know, perhaps Mr Voordewind had just had a cup of coffee, but I asked the Minister whether he would like to think about a more sensible treatment of drugs, and I asked him if there could be an investigation, following Mr Tops and Mr Tromp. But if we are going to table this kind of unfocused motions and then accuse parties of being against drug prevention, for example... Yeah, you can't have a debate like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u167	Mr Van Nispen has asked for research to see whether there can be a legalisation of hard drugs. That is what he proposed; he has repeated it here once again. I responded to that. I would also ask the Minister to make an inventory of what standardisation is currently taking place. If we really want a cultural change and we don't want our young people to go down on drugs, then we'll be together... There were just all these classes here; I think there's one more class here. There were just all these young people in the age class who we should warn about the danger of drugs. If we want that cultural change, we will have to fight against the normalization of the use of drugs. You and I can discuss soft drugs, but this is not even about soft drugs, which we already have a disagreement about. We are talking about hard drugs, ecstasy, and even of these you say: we need to do research to legalize this. You say that in front of these young people, and I am very sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u168	Mr Van Nispen may respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u169	Mr Voordewind can do very morally and say that parties who, in the interests of public health or in the interests of the fight against crime, want to think about a more sensible drug policy, are wrong. But I had a very simple question. That very simple question was: what does Mr Voordewind mean by his motion? Then he comes up with all kinds of you-boxes, he's gonna be morally elevated and he's gonna say you can't ask a question here about a more sensible drug policy, even though we've thought about it, without giving concrete substance to his own motion. That's very telling. I am not going to give the government a blank cheque for carrying out Christian Union policy, which I believe would be very unwise in the context of public health and a blessing for the criminals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u170	If we want to work together to protect the most vulnerable young people against health risks, we will have to create a culture change and we will have to tackle standardisation. What precise measures can we take to achieve this, I await. I am not going to make all kinds of proposals here. I'll come up with another motion, but that's a separate motion. Whatever measures I mention, I have the impression that Mr Van Nispen wants to pursue the standardisation of drug use. Well, that's not gonna help.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u171	I have a question. I have noticed that in this debate we have talked almost all about prevention, but that we all mean something else as well. I would therefore like to hear from Mr Voordewind what he means by prevention in the context of this motion. GroenLinks strongly supports prevention when it comes to good information and addiction care, but not when prevention is actually a sort of cover for more repression. So I would like to know what exactly is meant by prevention in the context of this motion, because then I can judge whether my group can vote for it or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u172	We have had a debate here on preventive measures: investing in youth work, ensuring that young people do not slip into the use of drugs, let alone transport drugs or get into drug crime. We have, indeed, talked about good information. I am still shocked by the education of institutions that say: you might best use it, but don't do it while doing your homework, because it is not conducive to your school performance. If that is the information we provide, then we must ask ourselves whether this is indeed the protection and clarity we want to offer young people. That's what I'm really worried about. I'm gonna ask the Minister to take an inventory. You voted against this motion, because you are apparently opposed to forms of research, and it was even a question of a research motion that was directed towards prevention. That's very disappointing, but it also shows where you're from.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u173	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u174	This I cast far from me. This motion was tabled in a debate on the Prevention Agreement, which did not include drugs. I'm not going to faint, but the ruler who was present happened to be from the Christian Union house. In any case, the executive who sat there on behalf of the cabinet also dissuaded the motion for this reason and said: discuss this in the general consultation on prevention. That is also where my group very much likes to talk about drug prevention. But let us not go waving because we said in a debate where it was not on the agenda: it does not fit here, we are discussing it in the right place. Then do not say that my group is against prevention, because that is really bullshit. And that also applies to Mr Van Nispen's group. So if you had listened carefully to our input into that debate, you would have known that we are indeed in favour of prevention.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u175	Then what prevented you from voting for that motion yesterday? You made a plea here. What prevented you from doing that? The fact that it is not exactly a good time, doesn't it mean that you need to vote against such a motion? Anyway, I don't think we're gonna agree. Mr President, a second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the use of drugs is prohibited in the Netherlands;]] [[having noted that the Trimbos Institute's Drugs Information and Monitoring System (DIMS) has drug testing centres in more than 20 places in the country;]] [[Whereas the provision of drug testing centres by a government-funded organisation gives a signal of semi-legitimation of hard drugs;]] [[calls on the Government to stop facilitating drug testing centres,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24077-443]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u176	I am waiting for the Minister's response, but still an encouragement to the Minister. Because we've received so many sounds from several mayors when it comes to that information sharing, I'm coming to the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that municipalities indicate that they experience bottlenecks in, inter alia, information sharing, enforcement capacity and knowledge position;]] [[Whereas it is important to have an overall picture of the problems encountered by municipalities;]] [[Whereas it is important to take account of bottlenecks in different types of municipalities, such as regional, rural and metropolitan municipalities;]] [[calls on the Government to identify where municipalities are still experiencing bottlenecks and to come up with concrete solutions to remove these bottlenecks and to inform the Court of Justice,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24077-444]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u177	I will continue to laugh, but I do not really intend to support this motion, because we already know everything that this motion calls for. It's really the cabinet's move now. The Council of State has spoken, all the mayors have spoken. Getting to work, I'd say, and not again all kinds of delaying investigations that really aren't gonna bring anything extra.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u178	Mr President, perhaps a reaction?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u179	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u180	A brief reaction. If Mrs Kuik reads the motion, she will see that concrete measures are also being called for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u181	Mrs Kuik was ahead of me, but her words could have come out of my mouth, because I wrote on Mr Van den Berge's motion, which asks the same question: is already happening. That's what Mrs. Chicken just said. I am always in favour of a united approach towards box-K, but this is going to be a very strange figure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u182	I do not fully understand what Mr Van den Berge's motion is. I'm quite willing to put it together, but I'm also waiting for the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u183	Thank you, Mr Voordewind. I'll see if the minister can respond immediately. The Minister needs five minutes to be able to read and assess 15 motions quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u184	I give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u185	Mr. Chairman. I have 15 motions to discuss. Finally, I have a few questions to answer from Mr Yeşilgöz and Mr Kuik. First, the motions. I need to move. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). He could hold the motion until the budget debate. You know the saying of the brooding chicken. This is precisely a subject which I have always said in the Chamber that I am constantly calling for attention to be paid to this problem. That's what I'm gonna keep doing. This also applies to the point that Mrs Helder raised first, namely looking at the possibilities for structuring such a fund. I don't want to disturb the brooding chicken. My proposal would be to keep to the budget. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to dissuade the motion. Motion No. 431 is about increasing the reward of tipsters. I shall return to that in the promised letter. That really needs to be studied. I would ask Mr Krol to hold this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u186	Mr. Krol, you really should do that for the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u187	I'm gonna have to rethink if I'm gonna make the first motion. I'm gonna talk to Mrs. Helder very well, too. I don't want this to be a motion against her motion. As far as I'm concerned, it's a matter of and-and-and-and-one. Both motions need to reinforce each other, but we're still gonna talk about that. I'll take the second motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u188	At the request of Mr Krol, I propose his motion (24077, No. 431). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u189	Motion No. 432 also belongs to Mr Krol. I would also ask him to hold this motion. I have already said that we need to look at this in depth in the light of a possible amendment to the Constitution. I shall return to that in the promised letter. My proposal is to hold that motion, otherwise I'll have to dissuade her.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u190	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u191	Motion No. 433 on the landlord's register, I'll let you know. The motion on increasing the number of drug and money dogs to 1,000 I must advise against. Then I come to motion No. 435 by Mr Van Dam and Mr Voordewind. This motion calls for a legal basis to be created to allow for the testing of alcohol and drugs by employers. I'm asking you to hold this motion. I have already said that the Chamber is informed by the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment. She is currently discussing this issue with employers and employees.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u192	Different?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u193	Otherwise, I will discourage the motion at this stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u194	Would it be possible, with all due respect to the Secretary of State, to ask this Minister not only to leave it to the Secretary of State, but also to look at it from the point of view of combating drugs and, with that element, to give a reaction from the Cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u195	I can promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u196	Mr. Van Dam?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u197	Then I can promise I'll hold the motion. That's what I'm doing now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u198	At the request of Mr Van Dam, I propose his motion (24077, No. 435). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u199	Motion No. Mrs Helder's 436 concerns the structural undermining fund. If it is said that this should be introduced now, then I must discourage the motion. I have already indicated to the other motion that the motion can also be held until the budget is discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u200	There's on purpose no time limit in the motion. I would prefer to do so as soon as possible with the emphasis on 'fast' but also on 'possible'. The Minister doesn't have to read out a deadline. I don't think I need to change that. Then about what just happened. Mr Krol was the applicant for this debate, so I understand that he is also the first to table a motion. He submits a motion that he had already prepared and also signs my motion on a structural undermining fund. I do not think that bites each other; my anger was just motivated by the fact that the colleague of the VVD co-signs his motion but not mine. It's not about the PVV sticker. If the Minister undertakes to do so, I think all colleagues will nod and say: give it to the Minister because then we will get a structural undermining fund. That is what we do for the mayors and to fight crime. So I see no malice with Mr Krol. As far as the VVD colleague is concerned, all I can do is make an implied... I don't think I should tell you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u201	That didn't quite work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u202	That didn't quite work out, no. "Implicate," Mr President, that was the intention to say. But that's what you get when you're a little angry; after years of discussion like this, it's starting to get a little messy. And that's not just on this subject. I am pleased with the support of other colleagues; that can also be said. I would be happy to continue the motion until the budget debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u203	At the request of Mrs Helder, I propose her motion (24077, No. 436). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u204	I would like to express my gratitude for that. Then I come to the motion on part No. 437, about the drug-free generation. I urge Mr Bishop and Mrs Helder to keep it until 10 October. Then the debate of the Lower House with State Secretary Blokhuis. If the motion is not stopped, I should advise her not to, because otherwise I will really get in the way of the Secretary of State, and Blokhuis and I are working very much together in this whole thing. So I look at you, Mr. Chairman, and through you to Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u205	Yes. Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u206	Look, if the Minister promises to talk to Mr Blokhuis and to ensure that the judicial, police, perspective is taken into account, I would like to keep her on board.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u207	Yes. I thought I'd already reported that, but I'm confirming it here again, aboundingly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u208	Thank you. Am I to understand that you're holding the motion, Mr. Bishop? I can see that it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u209	Then there is Mr Van Nispen's motion. It calls for a more active commitment to the monitoring of criminal money flows and so on. This motion, in part No. 438, that's definitely room for judgment. As far as I am concerned, she fits in well with the plan of action and also gives us some sort of incentive function. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the motion in part No. 439 by Mr Groothuizen and Mrs Bergkamp, on the Netherlands as a festival country. I've already said that there's been quite a misunderstanding, but yes, it's just what you're trying to get into the world at the point where I'd say there should be fewer festivals and b that I have any authority to do that at all. But I must strongly advise against this motion alone. 'Cause it says "spoken out of that."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u210	"Speaks that," yes, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u211	Yeah. Then we must never again make a condition in a permit to a festival or anything like that. I don't think that could have been the intention. So dissuade it. It is also a question of local policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u212	But nothing is being asked of the government in the motion. The motion makes a statement. Then it's up to the room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u213	But I can say it's a motion...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u214	Sure, you can say anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u215	... which has not been properly put together in any way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u216	In any case, I am pleased to hear that the Minister supports the intention of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u217	Oh. Okay. Good. I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u218	Mr. Chairman. Then we have the motion in part no. 440, by Mr Van den Berge, on research. However, it is reported annually by the UN Drugs Conference on the effectiveness of the drug approach. I have already mentioned in my introduction the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction (EMCDDA), which also comes regularly with such reports. So I do not think it makes any sense to carry out another investigation. The World Drug Report really gives us a lot of data. Furthermore, as a Dutch society and here too, we must take the responsibility to look at what is needed in the Netherlands, given the peculiarities of our economy as I outlined earlier. The motion in part No. 441 by Mr Van den Berge, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the request for...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u219	Let's get back to the motion on part No. 440. Has there been a judgment given?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u220	This motion has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u221	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u222	Absolutely. I said we're not gonna do any unnecessary work. Then we have the motion in part no. 441 and those in part No. 444. The motion in part No. Mr Van den Berge asked the government to consult the municipalities. The motion in part No. Mr Voordewind's 444 has been reworded, but the bottom line is that both motions say: will you... The motion in part No. 441 calls for structural measures to be proposed to combat and inform the Court of Justice of the links between the sub-world and the upper world. I would advise against that, because there is really enough research available. Undermining images are being made in all regions. If you wish, it will be shared with your room. We have the pursuit team undermining that falls under the Strategic Board Undermining. I have heard a number of your Members rightly say: people, let us be careful that not all new layers are going to function again. Maybe it slipped into the huge amount of pieces, but there's really enough research at this point. If I may take the motion in section 444, that is another motion, if I may explain it in such a way that it is about information sharing. I said, also in a discussion with Mrs Yeşilgöz, that this year I will come up with solutions. I'm coming up with protocol this year, too, so I'm gonna leave that motion to judge Chamber. But Mr Van den Berge's is really...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u223	The motion in part No. Mr Voordewind's 444th Chamber. Then that's what we've been through.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u224	Mr Van den Berge's motion on item 441 is superfluous and is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u225	Mr Van den Berge, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u226	I don't blame the Minister, given the multitude of motions. But I do have the feeling that the Minister's operative part of the motion in part No. 440 and of which in part 441 is a bit of a mix-up. The motion in part No. On the contrary, 441 does not call for research, but for structural measures to be taken in consultation with the municipalities. Then there is the possibility of extending undermining funding. There is also the possibility of expanding the detective capacity. I will not repeat what I have said in my speech, but that is the operative part of the motion. There is therefore no request for a new investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u227	Back before Mr Van den Berge walks away. About more money and things like that I used the expression of the brooding chicken, so I'm not going to go on with that now. You must realize that I have also submitted to your Chamber that we have set up a very clear structure together: the Strategic Board Undermining. They worked hard and split the 100 million. We've provided local undermining footage. As some of you rightly said, we have a map: it is not only in Amsterdam, but also in other cities and in certain provinces; the pressure of drug crime is very different in Limburg than in Amsterdam and so on. We all did. You ask me to consult with the municipalities again to identify bottlenecks and propose structural measures, but that is exactly what has been done. Your Chamber is right to be chasing me to ask if there should be more resources. So I'm gonna keep dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u228	Finally, I would like to make a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u229	I'll hold the motion. I understand the argument of the brooding chicken, so I am expecting the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u230	That's okay, too. Attention. That's not up to me. That's the police.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u231	At the request of Mr Van den Berge, I propose his motion (24077, No. 441). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u232	Then we have the motion in part no. 442 by Mr Voordewind. I had that in part number. 444 already judged Chamber left.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u233	Wait a minute, Mr. Van Nispen. Let's finish this. You'll have the floor in a minute. You wish to return to Mr Voordewind's motion. We're about to do that, but first, motions 442 and 443. Then that's what we've been through.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u234	The motion in part No. 442 calls for a study of the measures to be taken to combat the standardisation of drug use. If you make that "request the government," I'll leave them to judge Chamber. This is a matter for Mr Blokhuis and me together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u235	That's what it says, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u236	Oh, it's crossed out. You're right, Mr. Chairman. I apologize. Then we have the motion in part no. 443 on facilitating testing centres. I would really like to keep it until after the prevention debate with the Secretary of State on 10 October.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u237	I understand. I'll hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u238	At the request of Mr Voordewind, I propose his motion (24077, No. 443). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u239	Yeah, I've already treated it. I have three more questions to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u240	Yes, but Mr Van Nispen has another question about the motion in part No. 444.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u241	Yes, Mr. Chairman. At the motion in part No. 441 explained to the Minister: we already know what the bottlenecks are and we are going to take action, so I advise against the motion. Mr Van den Berge was so sporty at the time to say: then I will hold her or move her in. But at the motion in part No. 444 is exactly the same thing going on. In its operative part it also deals with bottlenecks in municipalities and with solutions to overcome these bottlenecks. The operative part is almost literally the same. Then I find it very strange that we are going to vote on Tuesday. If you put the operatives next to each other, you can see that they're just the same. Then the same judgment would also fit and it would be sporting if Mr Voordewind were to continue his motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u242	That's not entirely up to me. The motion in part No. 444 is about information sharing. If that is also the thrust of Mr Van den Berge's motion, then both motions aim at the same thing. Then I'll say to both of you: Judge Room. This is what I'm talking about. At the end of the year, I come up with the overview: what kind of solution do we have for some of these information sharing bottlenecks, which the Council of State has said there are still plenty of possibilities? I think the motion went into part No. 444 over. Maybe the motion goes to part no. 441 about that, too, but I have understood it more generally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u243	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u244	It's gonna get a little noisy. I would like to support motions if the Minister says that we are already doing so, but it helps me if you support this motion. I'm fine with it all. But in my opinion, the agreement was that we should have unnecessary motions...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u245	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u246	... arrest, not file or at least be discouraged. Anyway...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u247	Mr Voordewind has also...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u248	I had the opportunity to compare. Mr Van den Berge's motion concerns, at least in the recital, structural funding and so on. My motion is not about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u249	Then that's clear, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u250	Let's see if the administration still checks out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u251	To make things a little bit more complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u252	No, I'll make it easier for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u253	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u254	The motion in part No. 433 was judgment room, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u255	Yeah? I'll take a look.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u256	It is, isn't it? And the minister asked me to arrest the other one. Now that he has pledged so generously that he will respond to all my points, it is indeed best that we proceed with this. I'll keep them on. And at the motion in part No. 430 I am going to look again specifically at whether we can come to something very beautiful together. So I'm holding on to the rest of the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u257	"The rest of the motions." So that's except...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u258	The motion in part No. 433, because on that I received judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u259	And the motion in part No. 430?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u260	I'm gonna keep that one on, too. And then I'm gonna see if we can come to something beautiful together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u261	Okay, that's fine. So all motions except those in part No. 433.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u262	Mr. Chairman. I've got a few things left. First Mrs Yeşilgöz, who had two questions. With regard to the question about small entrepreneurs, I am certainly talking about this, including through the Chair of the Netherlands SMEs and the Platform Crime Control. In 2018, together with Onno Hoes, we also organised meetings with such a small entrepreneur in Haarlemmermeer to focus specifically on this problem. In the letter on a number of points raised by Mr Krol in connection with the budget debate, I will also go into this point in more detail. There were also the experts, the police volunteers. Let me say first of all that the police already have a lot of expertise from society and that we have encouraged voluntary policy in this respect. You mentioned in your examples 'beautiful heads of the Zuidas', but I had just understood from the report that those good-looking heads on the Zuidas may not always be a recommendation; you don't know it either. But, to make a long story short, we're taking over that point. We will come back to that in the letter. Finally, Mr President, and then I am really at the end. Mr Van Nispen and Mr Groothuizen have put a small questioning hook in thinking about a more sensible drug policy. Today we have on the basis of the report by Mr Tops and Mr Tromp and others. Tromp and Tops talked about the drug policy I advocate as minister. I am pleased, because that also gives more unity, to hear GroenLinks say: there is no such thing as a war on drugs in the Netherlands. On the contrary. We have now given each other a high priority and we are doing so in a way that suits our society. Mr. Chairman. I am grateful to your Chamber for this constructive, critical discussion with each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u263	Thank you. Then I would like to thank the Minister and the spokesmen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-9.u264	The motions tabled will not be put to the vote next Tuesday, because then we will have Princess Day, but Tuesday 24 September.
