ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-9.u1	We begin with the farewell of Mr Arno Rutte of the VVD. I'll start by reading his letter: "Dear President, dear Khadija, On September 12, 2012, I got off with a group of Groningen VVDs cheerful from a bus in Scheveningen, ready to attend the VVD's election party in a tent. To my surprise, I had just finished an election campaign for the national elections for the first time in my life, with myself in an honorable place on the list: 38. That was a lot higher than the list pusher spot I expected and low enough not to run immediately. The latter reassured my wife. After a final poll, which the VVD had announced 31 seats, I relaxed into the tent. There was a big screen on, the exit poll talked about no less than 41 seats and from that moment on, my life was upside down. Today, more than seven years later, I take leave of the House of Representatives before the end of my second term. And that has not been a simple decision. The experiences I have had are numerous. Shoulder by the shoulder with colleagues in your group and with coalition members to fight to bring very difficult measures to a successful conclusion during a severe economic crisis. Negotiate with many parties of various plumage, and individuals, to find a common basis for further necessary steps over and over again. Dealing with regular and social media, making a huge stream of work visits in which many doors were opened that remained closed to others: membership of the Lower House is much more than a job. It's hard to stop, but I'm gonna do it anyway. If my brother hadn't died of cancer in 2006, I probably wouldn't have become a politician. But it happened and hit me deep. Two and a half months after my brother died, too, my father. The family I grew up in half within three months. At the same time, I lost my job because of a reorganisation. The sadness of that time motivated me, as far as I was able, to commit myself to improving health care. I am extremely grateful for the years in which I, as a member of the VVD Group, have been able to fight every day to keep good care available and affordable for everyone. That's not an easy task. Care is complex and in every country with a well-developed care system is a pressure vessel where all social dilemmas come together. Those who look at one side of these dilemmas may receive applause in the short term, but will not be able to maintain good care in the long term. After personal considerations brought me into the Chamber, they are now also the reason for my departure. I live with my family in the finest city in the Netherlands, Groningen. For seven years I have tried to find a balance between home and work. Sometimes it worked, too often it didn't. My family deserves to be able to count on me every day. Unfortunately, that is not enough if I remain active as a Member of Parliament. That's why my parliamentary career ends today. Luckily, I don't have to let go of health care. As of next week, I will be able to work every day with my new employer, Vintura, to help achieve the necessary changes in care that must ensure that we continue to ensure good care for everyone in an ageing country. Fortunately, we live in a country where the greatest improvements in care are realised by the people in care themselves. Being able to think along and participate in these changes is a wonderful challenge that I look forward to with great pleasure. Finally, a big thank you to all staff who work very hard before and behind the scenes, even at night and at night, to ensure that parliamentarians can do their work: messengers, cleaners, clerks, employees of Bureau Legislation, the restaurant staff, my personal employees Rebecca and Paul, the officers and policy staff of the VVD Group. It was a privilege to work with you guys. Towards the House of Representatives I would like to repeat the words that my good friend Han ten Broeke wrote when he left the House of Representatives: leave each other whole! Sincerely, Arno Rutte."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-9.u2	Dear Mr. Rutte, dear Arno, It's an interest in politics that's been poured into you. At your home, almost no day passed without a solid debate on current social issues. As a little boy you often sat in the gallery of the city council in Haaksbergen. At the age of 10, you went on a campaign with your father. That has paid off. Your mother would later become alderman and councilman in that same congregation. Still, it took you a while to enter the political arena. The immediate cause for this was sad. The loss of your brother and your father in two and a half months made a deep impression on you and led to some far-reaching choices. Making healthcare in the Netherlands better and more accessible; that became your mission. You initially chose a job with a health insurance company and joined the Groningen City Council. Two years later, your political career took off. That you entered the Chamber at the 2012 election from place 38, surprised everyone, especially your wife. Storm-mighty, that's how you described your coming to The Hague. As a member of the Committee on Health, Wellness and Sport, you quickly noticed your ability to express your liberal ideas about care in every debate. The care in our country is something to cherish, you always said. Good care should be available and affordable for everyone. But also as a spokesperson on issues such as alcohol and tobacco policy, sport and culture, and police and security you have been hearing from you in recent years. You didn't shy away from confrontation with the opposition. In debates, you chose not to be ideologically but pragmatic in your words. You always said, "Don't get out of the way, just name and try to find a realistic solution." We saw this time and again, for example in the discussion on the reimbursement of expensive experimental medicines. Dear Arno, People's representatives often have a surprising side. In your sparing spare time, you are part of the rock 'n' roll band Harige Harry and The Ladyshavers. A nice souvenir from your college days. It reminds me a bit of Jambers: during the day he is MP, at night a stage animal. Your friends had asked you to mention the band name in your maiden speech, so that it would be recorded in the Acts of the Chamber. And so it was. And now again, in your farewell speech, with which the circle is complete. Although I haven't met many people's representatives singing in a rock band, you think there are many similarities between the life of a rock singer and that of a politician. You made a connection: "As a rock singer, I learned how important it is for a politician to bring your audience into your story." Dear Arno, You are known as a transparent and passionate realist. As one of the longest-sitting MPs of the VVD, you do not hide your opinion. I heard that via-via, especially within the group. Never too bad to give a critical note after a lively discussion in the group. They're probably gonna miss you, like all of us. The membership of the Lower House is much more than a job, you write in your farewell letter. And I fully endorse that. I'm sorry to see MPs leave early. But the office of MP can make a heavy difference on private life, especially if that is at home in Groningen. As you said yourself, personal considerations brought you into the Chamber. They're the reason you're leaving now, too. From now on, you're going to work outside parliament for better care. I sincerely hope that in your new position you can find a good balance between private and work, and I wish you every success in that. Thank you for everything you've done for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-9.u3	We're about to say goodbye, but we're gonna vote first. Your final vote, Mr. Rutte.
