ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u1	We are continuing to deal with the budget of Home Affairs and Kingdom Relations, and we had arrived at the government's response in the second term. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And thanks to the members for their input in the second term. There are still a number of questions that have been asked. I'd like to answer that first. Then I would like to give an assessment of the motions that have been tabled. Mr Bosma wondered why the report on the political manipulation of social media was drafted in English. I couldn't answer that question, and at first I didn't think it made any sense that this had happened. But there is, in itself, a logical explanation for this, namely that the principal researcher of origin is English speaking. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has agreed to draw up the report in English. As far as we are concerned, this is an exception. By the way, an extensive Dutch summary has been added. And if Mr Bosma appreciates it, the whole report can of course also be published in Dutch. I understand from his non-verbal reaction now that he appreciates that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u3	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u4	Mr Van der Molen asked whether I could promise that the final opinion on the distribution of healthcare funds will not include drug use. He criticized the criterion of drug use and referred to a new distribution of the community fund for the social domain. The research for this new division is currently in full swing. In line with the motion presented by Mr Van der Molen to the VAO Social Domain this spring, other health features as an alternative to the measure of drug use are explicitly considered. I cannot anticipate the results of that investigation. Your Chamber will receive a final proposal in the spring, in which I will also discuss the measure of drug use. I do not think it is purely a promise, in anticipation of these outcomes, that it will not return to the distribution model. The situation could arise that it is necessary for the outcome of the distribution model for many municipalities to play a role. But we will come back to this and the motion will not be forgotten. Mr Van der Molen wondered how the extra resources for political parties would be spent on the basis of the Jetten motion. I have undertaken to inform the House of this. It's my endeavor to do this in a letter within two weeks. Ms Kuik asked about the scope of the basic scan integrity, specifically in terms of financial interests of candidate directors. In the basic scan integrity, different domains are distinguished on which candidates are screened. Financial interests are one of those areas. The screening has a significant range. It looks not only at the candidate himself, but also at the interests of the partner, parents or children, for example. As I said in my first term, the Financing Act gives political parties specific rules for donations, and there is always the possibility of criminal investigations in case of suspicion of corruption. Mr Bishop asked why I do not want to call for an investigation into prayer. For the purpose of carrying out publicly funded research, it is desirable to have a convincing reason. So we better be honest about whether or not that is desirable. However, the legal framework is very clear here. I don't see what research can add to that. I also refer to the answers to written questions recently sent to the Chamber by the Minister for Social Affairs. It is therefore up to the city council, and not to the Lower House, to set limits on the duration and the noise level, if appropriate. Mr Bishop also asked me what guarantees I can give that the extension of the municipal tax area and the reduction of the state tax area actually take place. He referred to earlier copy-paste texts. I think it is important for this better balance to be struck, between the responsibilities of municipalities and the space they have to generate their own revenue. That space is still limited at the moment. It should therefore be extended, but, as you can imagine, it affects the whole system. I have agreed with the Secretary of State for Finance to reconsider the previous building blocks for the revision of the municipal tax area. Then there are all sorts of scenarios that can be considered, but the decision on this new package, the whole package, including that local tax area, is really in the hands of a new cabinet. Perhaps that evokes feelings of copy-pastes, or copy and paste, but this is really up to a new cabinet. This is really about a system adjustment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u5	A brief question, Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u6	Cut and paste, indeed, with all due respect. Then I'll just ask the question focused. How far does the cabinet intend to go with the preparations for the next cabinet's decision-making during this period?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u7	I understand that very well, because that is precisely why we have said that this must be well prepared. So what happens is that these scenarios are mapped out and put on the table of a new cabinet. A political decision must then be taken on the table, because that is what we are talking about at the end of the day, but that must be based on the information and also on the bottlenecks that we have now identified. So that's what we're going to do in the next period, together with the Secretary of State for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u8	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u9	So I can conclude that during this cabinet period the Chamber can also be informed about the scenarios that can be followed and the choices that can be made, that we have thus completed the preparations in principle and that only the decision-making has to take place?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u10	Yes, then we have to be very precise, because this is not the traditional process of decision-making in the Chamber. This really is a mandate for a new cabinet to work with. This new cabinet is also accountable to the Chamber. Then there will also be a debate. We are now launching the preparatory official work to map these scenarios.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u11	Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u12	Mr Bishop had a right point about the great differences in the affordability of burial. That varies considerably from one municipality to another. It does, of course, affect municipal autonomy. That's what I've been telling you before. Research has shown that a lot of municipalities charge a fare below the cost-covering level, i.e. actually focus on the rates they ask for. At the moment, my ministry is in consultation with the VNG on updating the model on the basis of which the rates for burial are calculated. In this context, I would like to say that I would also like to draw attention to the cost of keeping buried and to inform you of it. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come to an assessment of the motions. First of all, the motion for a resolution by Mr Middendorp on part No. 12 on game rules for politics online. He asks the government to send the Digital Services Act to the Chamber before Christmas, i.e. 25 December 2019, to share the position of the other EU Member States with the Chamber. As described in the recent letter on disinformation, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Climate Policy is responsible for monitoring developments in this area. At present, however, almost nothing is known about this Digital Services Act other than that the Commission is going to work on it. Partly because of this, there is virtually no information about the position of other Member States, so at the moment it is simply not possible for the government to determine that position or to inform your Chamber about the position of other Member States. If a proposal is actually made, the Cabinet will, in accordance with information agreements with your Chamber on European Affairs, draw up a BNC sheet within six weeks of the publication containing our position, the Dutch position and a sketch of the position of other Member States. I would therefore ask Mr Middendorp to hold this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u13	Before I think about it: I do not know when that piece will come, but I do know that it is very important, even in the informal and formal negotiations, for the Dutch cabinet to have a position on it. If the Dutch cabinet has a position on it and sends it to the Chamber, and if we talk about it in the Chamber, then it may be even sharper. Freedom of speech online is, as I have argued, a fairly important subject. Maybe I can ask the Secretary of State about this. I said before Christmas 2019. I can do it a little later, so the deadline's moving up a little bit. But nothing at all, then um... then it runs...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u14	Let me get this straight. 31 motions have been tabled. Maybe we shouldn't negotiate on every motion what word and what not, because I also see the public health team getting impatient. So a brief question about the motion. You have until Tuesday to adjust or hold her.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u15	Maybe the Secretary of State already has another date in mind. Then we're done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u16	The point is that the Secretary of State knows when Christmas is, but doesn't know when more clarity will come about. We have a standard procedure with the Chamber with regard to information. Actually, I'd like to hold on to that. This means that, if there is more clarity, we will inform the Chamber, in accordance with the procedure agreed upon by the Chamber itself, so as soon as possible after we have more clarity about it. I can promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u17	If Mr Middendorp does not hold the motion, what is your verdict?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u18	Then I'll have to dissuade her.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u19	Okay. Then that's clear, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u20	In the motion in part No. 13 by Mr Middendorp, Mr Krol and Mrs Den Boer, the government is invited to involve the aspects of the digital legacy in the Coronation Act and to examine how relatives can be informed about this through the modernisation of the Coronation Act. I think that is a sympathetic motion. I think it is a good thing to do this, so I can leave the judgment to the Chamber for short. In the motion-Middendorp c.s. in piece No. 14 The government is invited to come up with legislation allowing for experiments with interim elections for municipal councils. I have already said something about this on my part in the first term. This requires an amendment to the Constitution and has considerable consequences. I must therefore discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u21	A brief question, Mr. Middendorp.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u22	The word "experiments" was crossed out in the motion as I provided it. That is important, because we have talked about this for a long time. That's important to note.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u23	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u24	I have made it very clear that it is important for us to have the Chamber also give a ruling on this. I don't really have any other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u25	I note that I have the wrong text in front of me, but that is not in itself such a problem if it is a request to the Chamber. Then I don't need anything there...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u26	Okay. Then it's up to the Chamber to decide. What is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u27	I thought, maybe the Secretary of State has a text that says...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u28	It says: "calls on the government to come forward with a proposal for this cabinet period." We're talking about the motion in part No. 14, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u29	The word "experiments" used by the Secretary of State is not part of it. That was the first thing I noticed. The second thing I said, for the sake of clarity, was that we are not going to take any further conclusions from the judgment. We want the Chamber to vote on this. That's what I meant when I said we want the Chamber to rule on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u30	Okay. Clear. The Chamber is about its own motions and you have received my judgment. In the motion in part No. Ms Özütok's 15 calls on the government to make sustainability a criterion for procurement. I consider that criterion to be a criterion that is included in addition to the other criteria that are already in place. If that is the case, then I am prepared to make clear agreements with the Secretary of State of IenW and the Minister of EZK. If I may interpret it that way, I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber. In Mrs Özütok's motion on item No. 16 The Government is invited to reach a ban on donations in the forthcoming amendment of the Financing Act, from which it is not clear which natural persons they come from. At present, a threshold of €1,000 applies. A total ban would lead to difficult enforcement and would, for example, make a collection on the street impossible, so I must discourage this motion. In the motion in part No. 17 by Ms Özütok and Mrs Van Kooten, the government is invited to reach an annual monitoring Islamophobia in consultation with interested parties. I have already indicated in the answer to the questions that an integral monitor is being drawn up by the Cabinet, using the reports provided by other organisations. I must therefore discourage this motion. This motion is also in the domain of Mr van SZW, but that aside. If I'm right, I'm gonna need the motion in part no. 18 not to provide a judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u31	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u32	In the motion in part No. 19 the government is invited to make proposals for a comprehensive assessment of the dualisation of the municipal and provincial administration. I have already had a whole debate on this with Mr Van der Molen. In any case, I note that dualisation is working well in this Chamber, because Mr Van der Molen is of a different opinion than I am, but I must advise against the motion. In the motion by Mr Van der Molen to item No. 20 The Government is invited to initiate a systematic dialogue with and between public authorities on possible task differentiation and to inform the Court thereof before 1 March 2020. I think that my input in the first period has already made it clear that I am open to that, so I leave the judgment to the Chamber. In the motion by Mr Van der Molen, Mrs Van der Graaf and Mrs Den Boer to item No. 21 The government is invited to explicitly include the impacts and the accumulation of impacts of policies for border and shrinkage regions in the Integrated Weighting Framework for policies and regulations. The guidance we have drawn up in response to the previous motion-Van der Molen c.s. has only recently been added to the IAK. This should promote greater visibility and attention to border effects. I would like to say: let's wait and see, let's work with that, because it's almost falling apart now. It might well be possible, I do not rule out that this would ever be necessary, but I would therefore ask Mr Van der Molen to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u33	Or what?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u34	Otherwise, I'm gonna have to dissuade the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u35	Okay, that's clear. Then the motion to part No. 22.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u36	In the motion in part No. 22 The Government is invited to make proposals to amend the General Rules Act in such a way that the reclassification draft is not submitted to the Minister rather than after the municipal elections, and to inform the Chamber thereof before 1 March 2002. This is a difficult point, because I think Mr Van der Molen's approach is sympathetic. But this leads to an additional extension of the process in a situation where municipalities may not sometimes have time to make that choice. I would not like to add anything to that, which leads to a longer process than it is now. That's why I have to discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u37	Mr. Van Raak, why are you standing there?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u38	I want to help the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u39	You want to help the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u40	I would like to help Mr Van der Molen and the Secretary of State, because I think it is a sympathetic motion by Mr Van der Molen. If the Secretary of State says otherwise it's going to take too long, I'd like to suggest that you can also organise a referendum. You can do that faster than an election.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u41	Well, then you helped the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u42	Thanks for the offer, anyway. Then I come to the motion on part No. 23 by Mr Van der Molen and Mr Middendorp, inviting the government to tender a new digital tool for the calculation of the election results as soon as possible, and to inform the Chamber thereof before 15 December 2019. I agree with the proposers that a new digital tool for determining results should be launched and developed as soon as possible. For the upcoming reclassification elections of November 2020 and the Dutch Parliamentary Elections of March 2021, a significant step is already being taken by developing a completely new version of the software that makes the additions for the result calculation. This new version deals with software vulnerabilities and increases reliability. However, the realisation of an entirely new digital tool takes time. At the earliest, tenders can be requested from the market in the coming spring. In its letter of 7 October last, the Minister for Foreign Affairs made it clear that it is therefore unrealistic that the new digital tool for the upcoming elections of November 2020 or so. March 2021 may have been developed and tested. So if it all has to be as tight as Mr Van der Molen and Mr Middendorp want it to be, I have to discourage the motion. Because I can't promise things I can't live up to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u43	Then the motion to part No. 24.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u44	It calls on the government not to use the rent allowance as support for MPs. I have already explained in detail in the previous period what that means. This is an under-exhaustment in the reduction in the self-employed deduction, allowing room for this financial item. It is not at the expense of people who are entitled to the rent allowance, and I therefore advise against this motion. In the motion in part No. Twenty-five members, Mr Sneller and Mr Den Boer, are invited to review the procedures for appointment of the most important democratic institutions. I have already dealt with this in the debate with Mr Sneller. I didn't change my mind during the suspension either, but I just want to come back to one point. Mr Sneller pointed out that it already happened in some places; could the Chamber not be involved more often? Why at the General Court but not at other appointments, for example at the Council of State? The task of the General Court of Auditors shall be to monitor the actions of the Government. Then there is much to say that whoever controls the government has a role in that too, and not just the controlled one, the government itself. That is also the explanation for the fact that this is happening at the General Court. But the National Ombudsman is a representative of different sections of society. This staff member shall establish links between society and the administration. This also explains why the Ombudsman traditionally has a close relationship with Parliament, which is why Parliament has a role in this. But I must strongly discourage this motion, also in view of the debate we had on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u45	Clamped? We don't know that. Just dissuade it. Okay, continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u46	Some MPs think they've made a very good motion, if that happens. Which may be true, but I still have to dissuade her. The motion in part No. 26 members of Den Boer, Middelkoop and Krol invite the government to work intensively with the sector to raise people's awareness of digital legacy and to encourage them to capture their wishes. I think that is a sympathetic motion, especially since it contributes to greater awareness and shared responsibility, so I can leave the judgment on this motion to the Chamber. In the motion in part No. 27 members Den Boer, Van der Molen and Van der Graaf asked the government to develop the right to cooperate with the VNG in a model regulation and to bring it to the attention of municipalities and provinces. Yes, it may sound very sympathetic, but I am a little confused with the debate we had here in the Chamber, with those English terms that all look so much alike. That's my first objection. The second is that in the operative part I am asked to bring this model regulation to the attention of the municipalities and provinces. I find that a little uncomfortable too, because that is not our responsibility. If the text stays that way, I'll have to discourage the motion. If Mrs Den Boer is prepared to amend the operative part, then the judgment could be different.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u47	In the context of the right to cooperate with the Secretary of State, I would suggest that I amend this motion and then bring it in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u48	You disagree, Mr. Middendorp?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u49	I have an informative question, because the Secretary of State says that if you would like to amend her, the judgment may be different. I understand that, but if Mrs Den Boer says 'I will amend her accordingly', then I do not know what to say to the group on Tuesday. That's a little complicated for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u50	Yes, how are you going to do that, Mrs. Den Boer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u51	I'll change the motion. The motion is then sent around nicely to all Members of Parliament in modified form, so that they can take note of it. They can then speak about it in their political groups and vote on it on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u52	Yes, the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u53	I think that's a good idea. However, I cannot judge at this time, because I do not know what the exact text is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u54	No, that is also Mr Middendorp's question. Does the Secretary of State know how the motion is being modified, is that what you mean? Or don't you know?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u55	If the Chamber needs it, I could, on the basis of the amended motion, inform the Chamber of my opinion, if that helps and if that helps Mr Middendorp.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u56	Okay, in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u57	Then the motion to part No. 28 by Ms Den Boer and Ms Özütok, inviting the government to draw up a plan of action to promote diversity in consultative colleges by 1 March 2020, involving the Court's conclusions. In response to previous parliamentary questions, I have already asked you to come up with a response to the report of the General Court of Auditors on diversity in advisory colleges. In that report, on behalf of the whole cabinet, I shall return to the recommendations of the General Court, because I really need to discuss this in the Council of Ministers. To speak of a plan of action now is anticipating that discussion. Either the motion is stopped, or I'm gonna have to dissuade her.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u58	I still see a horizon for me of some action after the cabinet response. I'd like to reconsider, and I'll see if I can apprehend her. I will discuss this with Mrs Özütok. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u59	If Mrs Den Boer does not hold the motion, what is the verdict?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u60	Then I must dissuade her in this form, but I will admit to Mrs Den Boer that I had promised that there would be a cabinet response by 1 March 2020. So we're gonna talk about this anyway. In the motion in part No. 29 the government is invited to make two requests for the legal establishment of the integrity investigation and to ensure that the proposal for the local elections of 2022 is in force. This was taken from my heart. I could even take over this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u61	Does anyone object to taking over the motion in part No. 29? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u62	Then the motion to part No. 30 also from Mrs Van der Graaf, and now together with Mr Van der Molen. It calls on the government to assess the financial impact of the policy measures on municipalities across the whole range of government. It's a bit of a sentence I've had to read three times to understand what it said. I'm gonna go check on him and see if I've interpreted him correctly. If I may interpret the motion in such a way that you mean by "impact of policies" that more insight can be given into the financial situation of municipalities, then I can leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u63	That's the case, Mrs. Van der Graaf? No? Mrs. Van der Graaf, briefly, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u64	We want concrete policy measures to reflect the consequences for the municipalities. I have mentioned the following example. If we decide to tighten up the building requirements, it will be more expensive to rebuild and, for example, municipalities will no longer be able to pay for the amount they get. That is a concrete example.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u65	But then I'd like to look at the Secretary of State: does he understand what Mrs. Van der Graaf means?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u66	Let me take a look at the operative part: "(...) to map the financial impact of the policies on municipalities over the full breadth of government." Perhaps you could help me clarify that sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u67	I don't think it's just the Ministry of the Interior. Measures are also being taken in other ministries, in all different policy areas. May I make a suggestion for the way in which the cabinet could carry out the motion? Have a talk with municipalities about this, because municipalities have very sharp measures taken by the Empire and what effects they have on the cost of implementation. That's why they're short now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u68	I understand the thought. We are, of course, also at the table with the VNG, the representative of the municipalities. I agree to discuss this with them. It's not always possible, of course, therefore I hesitate to determine exactly what the effects are ex ante, so at the front. You don't always know that. It is quite absolute, but as Mrs Van der Graaf has just explained, I can follow it and leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u69	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u70	In the motion in part No. 31 by Mrs Van der Graaf and Mrs Den Boer, the government is invited, in consultation with the Dutch Society of Mayors and the youth representatives, to make proposals for a further interpretation of the voting time for new voters. In my view, this is a very sympathetic motion, and I would like to make the point that municipal autonomy is also respected. So we think this is important, but we leave it to the municipalities to decide how they're going to do this. I can therefore leave the judgement to the Chamber. In the motion in part No. 32 by Mr Krol on the reclassification of Groningen, Haren and Ten Boer are asked to conduct an independent investigation into how that all went. I have said before that I do not like that and I do not see any reason to do so. That's why I have to discourage this motion. In the motion in part No. 33 Mr Krol asked the government to include the needs of the less digitised citizens in the use of the budget for digitisation. Mr Krol is not here. I find this motion very sympathetic, but in the third recital something is not right. There is a factual error, namely that the budget for this is being cut. That's not right. If he's willing to remove that, I can give the motion judgment chamber. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to dissuade the motion. In the motion in part No. 34 the government is invited to examine how municipalities apply remission of municipal taxes to the AOW's group without or with a limited supplementary pension. These rules for remission are very careful and take many aspects into account. I would like to look specifically at the waiver of local taxes in the process of revising the local tax area. We will also specifically take this issue with us and explain it further. That is why I can leave the judgment to the Chamber. In the motion in part No. 35 Mr Krol asked the government to sign escape routes and emergency exits in state real estate which are already suitable for disabled persons with a recognizable pictogram. That's a sympathetic motion. I would like to look at this in conjunction with other actions on the construction regulations requested earlier by Mr Krol and which are still ongoing. If I may interpret this motion in such a way that it is requested to examine whether a identifiable pictogram has added value in this matter, then I can leave the judgment to the Chamber. In the motion in part No. 36 Mr Krol asked that where there was a question of converting or renovating state real estate, he should serve as an example by working on escape routes and emergency exits for disabled persons and providing them with a recognizable pictogram. Disabled people are helped in the realms through the provision of company assistance in the event of emergency situations. This is regulated by default and is also mandatory. It is also regularly practiced. There are now general icons, for everyone to use. There is therefore currently no separate icon for disabled people. I would like to suggest that in the coming weeks I look at whether a separate and identifiable pictogram adds anything to the existing regulation, because I also value it to make it clear. I would therefore ask Mr Krol to hold his motion. If he doesn't, I'm gonna have to dissuade the motion. Mr Baudet has in his part No. 37 tabled a motion for a resolution on the protection of freedom of the press. It calls on the government to stop any interference in the free press. We don't have to strike anything, because we don't interfere. This would also be contrary to the Constitution, freedom of expression and the free press. If there are things that are not acceptable, then we will soon be in criminal law. At any rate, there is no task for the government at that time. So I must discourage this motion. The motion in part No. 38 is about treating local political parties equally, so that a level playing field is created. In reply to Mr Van der Molen, I indicated that a letter will be sent in two weeks' time. I would ask Mr Baudet to hold the motion until then.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u71	Or what?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u72	It's not meant to be a threat, but if he doesn't hold the motion, I'm gonna have to dissuade her. In the motion in part No. 39 the government is invited to take measures to achieve voting rooms at barracks in the next elections and in all subsequent elections, so that soldiers can vote more easily. The motion sounds very sympathetic, but I wonder what kind of precedent this will bring, including to other groups. In addition, this requires coordination with the Ministry of Defence. So I can't quickly map this now. I would therefore ask him to take this motion as well. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to dissuade her. I'll come to the motion in part No. 40, about stopping Islamic prayer calls. This motion I must advise against. I have said a few things about this to Mr Bishop earlier. It is up to the municipalities to draw up rules on the duration and noise of prayer calls. In the motion in part No. Mrs Van Kooten asked the government to consider whether and how Estonia's successful methods of online democracy could be adopted and to inform the Chamber. I've been to Estonia a number of times and have a lot of contact with the Estonians. We can learn a lot from them. So I can leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. Finally, I come to the motion for a resolution on part No. 42 by Mrs Van Kooten, in which the government is asked to investigate the possibility of referenda and citizen consultation through DigiD. That motion sounds very sympathetic, but we have not yet reached that stage. That has to do with the system, which is not so far developed at the moment. It may be something for the distant future, but it would be too risky to do so with this system at the moment. I have also indicated this in the written documents, in the answers to the questions. So that means I have to discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u73	Thank you. This also brings us to the end of the debate on the budget for Home Affairs and Kingdom relations. I would, of course, like to thank the Secretary of State for his presence, for his answers and also for the fact that he has replaced his colleague, the Minister for the Interior.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-8.u74	I see a line of members who all want to give the Secretary of State a hand, but I can't do that until I've actually suspended. I'd like to take a picture of you guys in a minute. It looks really special. We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday.
