ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u1	The next item is the motion for a resolution (Doc. The plenary discussion of the proposal by the Upper Chamber took place on 24 January 2017. The Duthler and Others motion tabled during that debate. on the maintenance of the legislative proposal until the State Committee on Parliamentary System has completed its investigation, was adopted by the Chamber. As a result of the adoption of this motion, the debate on the proposed initiative was then suspended. Now the final report entitled "Low thresholds, high dikes. Democracy and the rule of law in balance" has been offered to the Chambers, the Committee on Home Affairs and the High Colleges of State/General Affairs and House of the King (BiZa/AZ) has advised that the third-term plenary session of the proposal should now continue. I would like to welcome the initiator, Mr Van der Staaij, and the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations to the Upper Chamber. So we're starting a third term from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u2	I give the floor to Mr Van Hattem. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, thank you to Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP as the initiator of this bill, and also to Mr Herben, who was co-initiator on behalf of the List Pim Fortuyn in 2006. Knowing Mr Herben, he will also be following this debate with interest. As already indicated in the earlier deadlines for examining this initiative proposal, the PVV strongly supports this initiative proposal. The motion by Mrs Duthler of the VVD to await first the opinion of the Parliamentary System Committee has only delayed the procedure for two years unnecessarily. In the meantime, however, this gives us a bit of context. The Europhiles have put the demolition bullet in our national sovereignty with brutal force. In particular, by agreeing to participate in the European Public Prosecutor's Office, the transfer of powers to the Eurocrats in Brussels has been taken a step further. And it may be emphasised once again without a formal possibility to step out of the EPPO. It is not for nothing that I have already called the Brussels Hotel California: you can never leave. The same applies to the Marrakesh Pact, which would now be the subject of an internal legal opinion from the European Commission that it is binding on the European legal framework. Brussels continues to expand this framework, including its intention to allow the European Union to accede to the ECHR, the European Convention on Human Rights, in violation of its own treaties. While the Europhiles are stepping up a sham of care when amending constitutional provisions, they are now handing our sovereignty and thus our country out to the Brussels bureaucrats with the greatest ease, and then finding out afterwards that we are faced with facts that can no longer be reversed. Mr. Chairman. Because of this Eurofelt salami tactic, this initiative proposal is necessary as a parliamentary gatekeeper function. In the case of measures such as those mentioned in the written preparation, measures which have a significant impact on the national legal order and the Dutch citizen, the buffer of a two-thirds majority is highly desirable. This is essential just in order to have a firm commitment to accession treaties, especially when the EU wants to include Islamic states such as Bosnia and Albania with its plans for the accession of the western Balkan countries and the European Parliament still refuses to stop Turkey's accession definitively. With regard to the reason for this third term, the opinion of the Parliamentary Committee has not produced any new insights. It falls back on the opinion of the Constitutional Commission in order to broaden the interpretation of Article 91 (3) of the Constitution and otherwise, if not, to follow the initiative proposal. In the very long period of discussion of this initiative law, as has been said since 2006 and in fact since 2001, when the motion for a resolution on this issue was adopted in this Chamber, that step has never been taken in concrete terms. We've had enough time to take that step. Now that we really have not chosen to do so, we simply need to go ahead and follow the initiative proposal, as recommended by the State Committee. Finally, Mr President. This initiative proposal is absolutely a good and necessary step. Nevertheless, the only real solution to get out of Brussels' stranglehold is a nexit, so that we can go about our own laws, our own borders and our own future. Our citizens have an opportunity to express their views on this issue on 23 May with a vote at the PVV. For now, the PVV Group will vote in favour of this initiative law. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. I give the floor to Mr Engels.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u5	Thank you, Madam President. Both in the written preparation and in the first and second periods, the D66 Group, through my predecessor, Thom de Graaf, has shown enough how we stand on this initiative proposal. His final conclusion was that the proposal is not sufficiently motivated and consistent. In this third term, there is still one question open to the D66 Group: does the report of the State Committee on the Rules of Procedure give rise to a different opinion? The proposal has been retained for this purpose. I shall therefore confine myself to this question today. The State Commission notes that the draft law for the application of a reinforced majority for the adoption of EU treaties is based on a formal criterion: treaties on which the EU is founded. This criterion, in the opinion of the State Committee, is too broad on the one hand, because it also includes founding or revision treaties which do not require greater attention in the light of whether they deviate from the Constitution. On the other hand, this criterion is too limited because it does not include treaties with significant implications for the Dutch legal order, such as association agreements and agreements such as the European Stability Pact and a European Banking Union. Earlier, the Council of State and the Thamassen State Commission pointed out this complication. The Remkes State Committee then notes that the proposal does not meet the objective set and that there may be doubts as to its effectiveness. These observations are entirely in line with my group's contribution to the previous deadlines. Mr. Chairman. Following the Thomassen State Commission, the Remkes State Commission also recommends that, in order to answer the question of whether an international agreement deviates from the Constitution, account should be taken not only of the content of a specific constitutional provision, but also of the underlying principles and their scope. My group has also argued in previous deadlines for a broader interpretation of Article 91 (3) of the Constitution in the sense that the underlying principles of the Constitution should also be taken into account in this respect. The State Committee advises to test whether a less restrictive interpretation of Article 91 (3) can be achieved. My group takes this opinion and would like to call on the government to take the initiative. In this light, we look forward to the cabinet response to the report of the State Committee. We do not believe, unlike the State Committee, that in the event that a wider interpretation of Article 91 (3) of the Constitution is not ultimately chosen, the initiative proposal should be taken as a starting point. We maintain our view that, in the light of an objective, rational and consistent way of dealing with our constitutional order, this proposal does not satisfy us. I would like to ask the Minister whether she would like to include our view in the cabinet response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u6	Thank you, Mr. English. I give the floor to Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prior to this debate, in the corridors, I was a little overwhelmed by a sympathetic colleague who wanted to highlight his admiration for the perseverance of Mr Van der Staaij: what a perseverant, since 2006, for 13 years. Of course, I supported and confirmed that. There was another colleague, a lady, and she went over that again: for such a small group and still stand here with such a bill. I thought, yes, it's all good, but we shouldn't exaggerate. For most SGP positions, we have been attracting this for over 100 years, with not always decisive success. That we have been in the First Chamber for 13 years with this position, we call it a lightning action within our party. So, of course, I also admire Mr Van der Staaij, but everything is relative. Mr. Chairman. Before this third term you are of course forced to get into the pieces again. You remember reading the rather transparent delay of the VVD by bringing this bill first to a state committee. But after that slight annoyance, the simplicity, logic and great value of this bill soon hit you again. In short, the legislative proposal puts an end to the gnawing imbalance that the Dutch Parliament, by a simple majority, can decide on a far-reaching transfer of national powers to undermine our sovereignty. The motion for a resolution has rightly been mentioned here. What an opportunity there is here to really do something about the widespread displeasure in our society about this continuous transfer of national powers to Europe; so to do something and not just cry crocodile tears over Brussels' meddling during the upcoming European election campaign. In this sense, I believe that this legislative proposal represents a welcome litmus test for the preparation of CDA and VVD with regard to further Europeanisation. However, as a European too, I am happy to support this bill, because it gives an important recognition of the reality of the European legal order and also leads to the strengthening of the democratic legitimacy of the EU within our democracy; a significant fruit of this bill. Finally, in this context, every senator will have to embrace this proposal warmly, because it leads to fair constitutional rules and also strengthens the position of our Parliament. Mr. Chairman. The bill is given a major support in the back of the State Commission. It is true that the State Commission prefers a broader interpretation of Article 91 (3) of the Constitution. First of all, following the legislative proposal, this is a very nice recognition that today's constitutional practice is not optimal. That recognition is a gain. Apparently, the bill sees a real problem. Is that how the Minister sees it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u8	I understand very well that Mr Van Dijk is embracing the opinion of the Remkes Committee, but I read the opinion of the Thamassen Committee in such a way that it criticises the rather selective criteria in this proposal. The criticism is purely about the formal nature, which makes it not only more limited than the Thomasses Committee advocates, but also often too broad because it is not always about far-reaching proposals in the light of the Constitution. Are you not speaking a little too much to the Thamassen Committee on the proposal for an own-initiative report?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u9	I understand Mrs Strik's point. I have, of course, also read the critical remarks made by the committee. In the first and second periods, this has also been discussed in detail, and I assume that the author will also comment on this later, perhaps by briefly recapitulating the first two deadlines. However, it is perhaps significant that the committee does say, even after these critical remarks, that if this broad interpretation does not go far enough, it does not exclude it from the scope of this proposal. They see criticisms, but that does not go so far as to say that this bill should be withdrawn in any case, as Mr Engels has just said. They prefer the broad interpretation, but if that trail is not feasible, then for this bill. I think that is a striking conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u10	I share that it is quite remarkable, because it raises a lot of questions, but at the same time the Remkes Committee fully embraces the opinion of the Thomassesen Committee, including the fact that the initiative proposal is too broad in criteria. Can Mr Van Dijk also comment on this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u11	We have already discussed this in detail in the first and second periods. That there are questions that also require further interpretation is good, but I would also like to direct this question to the author, who will undoubtedly come back to this. Mr. Chairman. However, given the past, we have reason to doubt whether there will be a consistent political will in the future to implement that broader interpretation of Article 91 of the Constitution. That is completely insecure. In the past, the cabinet has also regularly put its finger on this. In any case, there is no doubt that a constitutional guarantee offers that certainty. I would also like to express my doubts about this to the Minister. What is the Commission's current position on a broader interpretation? How does Parliament know in which cases Article 91 (3) will be interpreted more broadly? Will there then be a clear criterion for the use of this broader interpretation and how does it work? To make it more concrete, I am thinking of possible proposals for EU defence cooperation or decision-making on tax proposals that end the unanimity requirement. Are such proposals, whether or not made through passerelle provisions, subject to a broader interpretation of Article 91 (3)? Such proposals may not be formally contrary to the Constitution, but in a material sense they do affect sovereignty. How does the Cabinet deal with that? Will this not cause constant uncertainty? A broader interpretation of Article 91 (3) is politically less harsh and legally less certain than the present legislative proposal. Does the Minister endorse this observation? What consequences does it have? Is the uncertainty surrounding the variant of the broader interpretation not a recommendation for the bill? Don't let the better become the enemy of good either. At the moment, there is a bill before us to do something about the failing constitutional practice. In any event, the State Committee does not raise any decisive objections to this route. For this reason, the SGP will also vote with conviction in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u12	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. I give the floor to Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Despite the long history of this bill, this term for me is sort of a maiden speech, you might say. In any case it is my debut for the debate with Mr Van der Staaij, and I look forward to that. Although it is tempting to make a basic argument about the whole bill because of my debut, I will not use the third term for that. My group, through spokesperson Lintmeijer, has spoken out clearly against this bill and today it is only for discussion whether the report by the Remkes State Commission could change this. Mr Engels has just done the same. I must say that the conclusions of the Remkes Committee are a little strange to my group. On the one hand, she supported the conclusions of the Thomases Committee, which advocated that the Constitution should not be amended, but that Rule 91 (3) should be extended. As a result, treaties which are not necessarily contrary to the Constitution but which have profound consequences for individuals or for our legislation or our system require a strengthened parliamentary majority. The Committee stresses that both formal and substantive criteria should apply. The Thamassen Committee expressly rejected the Van der Staaij proposal, because it is only a formal criterion, namely EU treaties.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u14	Could Mrs Strik explain why she says that the Thamassen Committee expressly rejected Mr Van der Staaij's proposal? I don't think that's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u15	In my view, the Thamassen Committee has indicated that the initiative proposal is too arbitrary, that the criterion proposed by Mr Van der Staaij is a formal criterion, that it is sometimes too broad and sometimes too limited.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u16	The Thamassen Committee discusses all proposals for a further provision, including the Van der Staaij proposal, with advantages and disadvantages. The Thomassen Committee then notes by a majority that there is a need for a further provision, but that it does not give its opinion on which one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u17	As I have read the opinion, it may not be explicit by majority, but it does indicate that both substantive and formal criteria should apply and that a broader interpretation of Article 91 (3) could also apply and therefore no legislative amendment is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u18	Isn't that the conclusion of the Remkes Committee? Has the Thamassen Committee not said that the Van der Staaij proposal has a number of rafel edges, namely that too broad provision, theoretically, which would cover certain cases and that too narrow provision? That too narrow provision could be taken into account by making some substantive comments on the other treaties. I do not think that the Thamassen Committee rejects the Van der Staaij option, but it points out that everything you do has a number of edges. Van der Staaij then mentions that material criterion for those other treaties, but the Thomases Committee has not come to any other clear alternative, except for the unanimous statement that we need more than what is now at stake.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u19	That is true, but the committee says in particular: now explain paragraph 3 of Rule 91 more broadly. In fact, the opinion does not express itself very clearly in favour of one of the possible variants, but I do read that the criticisms, the disadvantages of this initiative proposal, are implicitly weighed by the Thomasen Committee. It is said that it is not precise enough; it has disadvantages, both in one direction and in the other. That broader interpretation of Article 91 (3) would therefore be preferable. And that is actually confirmed by the Remkes Committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u20	The Thamassen Committee has unanimously said that the current interpretation of Rule 91 (3) is too narrow. I agree. But that committee then said by majority: that is why we need to amend the legislative proposal. So that's a little more than just the broader explanation. I would like to give that to Mrs Strik in her final judgment. The Remkes Committee says that there are indeed some difficulties with the legislative proposal, but if we cannot achieve an extended interpretation of Rule 91 (3), the Van der Staaij proposal is certainly a solution. That does not mean that it is rejected. I would like Mrs Strik and her thorough remarks to be taken into account. Yes, Mr President, you are also impressed by this statement; I see it, but I do not think it is fair to say that the state committees therefore reject the Van der Staaij proposal. It's just a solution; there's only hooks and eyes on it. That makes it a different consideration for me than it is rejected by the state committees.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u21	I have read and appreciated those hooks and eyes in such a way that it is not compatible with the initiative proposal we are discussing today, but I would also like to hear your contribution and the appreciation of the Minister and the initiator himself. Let's see where I left off. This is therefore only a formal criterion. On the one hand, the legislative proposal is too broad, because non-major treaties also need to be adopted by a two-thirds majority. On the other hand, it is too limited because, for example, association agreements, trade agreements and international agreements are excluded outside the EU. My group also adds that the transfer of powers from the EU to the Netherlands falls outside the scope of the legislative proposal, which can have profound consequences. My colleague Mr Lintmeijer has already paid attention to this. My group can support the Thomasses Committee's plea for a broader explanation of Rule 91 (3) and therefore also the agreement of the Remkes Committee on this matter. But then the Remkes Committee comes up with an additional remark which surprises us: that if the Thomasses Committee's opinion is not followed, the Remkes Committee supports Van der Staaij's proposal. In my view, this is too limited an interpretation of the opinion of the Thomases Committee, but it seems that some spokesmen look at that differently. It seems that the Remkes Committee has reason to believe that the Thomasses Committee's opinion is already a step in the right direction, but that if that step of the broader explanation is not taken, then the Van der Staaij bill must be followed. In other words, better than nothing. In our view, this reasoning does not take sufficient account of the criticism made by the Thamassen Committee that the criterion in the legislative proposal lacks a convincing basis, and is therefore somewhat arbitrary. In a number of respects, it is too broad, because not all EU treaties are far-reaching in the light of the Constitution. I just turned that in. For example, Treaty changes following the accession of a new Member State. This does not necessarily have to be substantial in the light of the Constitution. I would also like to mention the possibility that an EU treaty amendment will formally regulate something without having material, profound consequences. This wide-ranging application also has far-reaching consequences which we do not regard as positive by the Thomasses Committee. In our view, therefore, the opinion of the Thamassen Committee cannot be read as a partial fulfilment of the proposal for an initiative because it takes a completely different approach. Can both the initiator and the minister elaborate on this? How do they view the Remkes Committee's opinion in the light of that of the Thamassen Committee? If they would like to take on board the advice of the Thomasses committee, I am looking above all at the Minister, what practical consequences would that have? For my group it would not have been necessary to wait for the report of the Remkes Committee, but of course we have considered whether that has influenced our position. As has just been pointed out, this is not the case, although it has raised questions about the opinion of the Remkes Committee, in particular because the justification on this point is not particularly informative, despite the considerable size of the report as a whole. My group hopes, for reasons which my colleague Mr Lintmeijer has already put forward in detail, that this bill will not receive the necessary parliamentary support, without prejudice to the fact that I would like to express my appreciation for the efforts made by Mr Van der Staaij in defending his bill here in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Strik. I give the floor to Mr Sini.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u23	Mr. Chairman. We welcome the initiator and the minister to our Chamber. We once again express our admiration for Mr Van der Staaij's commitment and perseverance over a series of years to achieve the most effective involvement of Parliament and society in decision-making on the European Union. His proposal aims to amend the Constitution to introduce the requirement of a two-thirds majority of the States-General for the adoption of treaties on the European Union. Amendment of the Constitution is a long process. However, the present proposal dates back to 2006. The drawing of a prayer without end is beginning, although we do not think the petitioner wanted it. Today we are continuing the examination of the proposal after two years ago this Chamber decided to keep the proposal. It has been debated long and often, in this house and in the House of Representatives. And in the meantime, two state committees have considered it. First, the State Constitution Committee looked at it at the request of the House of Representatives. She was critical. And with the Duthler c.s. motion. It decided to seek the assistance of the State Committee on Parliament's system and to continue the examination of this proposal until the committee had completed its examination. The long-awaited opinion concluded on pages 334 to 338 and in particular in the first recommendation on page 337 that the Lower House could make greater use of existing instruments to influence EU decision-making, such as parliamentary retention of treatment, the subsidiarity test, and the yellow card procedure. The third recommendation recommends the introduction of a Europe Act, which legally anchors existing and complementary agreements and practices on information and involvement of the Chambers. The fourth recommendation recommends interparliamentary and horizontal cooperation with other national parliaments. Can the petitioner indicate how he views these recommendations? My group also asks the Minister to answer the same question. My group fully supports these recommendations. As regards the first recommendation, my group notes that the opinion could have indicated that the First Chamber could also draw a yellow card and even a red card. But perhaps this remark belongs to the discussion of the entire report and the cabinet response to it. The seventh recommendation calls for a broader interpretation of Article 91 (3) of the Constitution, in line with the Thomassen State Commission, in the sense that not only the content of a specific constitutional provision is relevant, but also the underlying principles and their scope. The Remkes Committee refers to the Thamassen Commission, which has worked out the possibilities of establishing whether a treaty deviates from the Constitution on the basis of formal or substantive criteria. In this context, the Thomassen Committee considered that the Van der Staaij proposal was too broad and too limited. It is too broad because it also includes treaties which meet the criterion, such as founding treaties or revisions thereof, but which do not require greater attention in substance. It is too limited because, for example, the association agreements, such as the recent EU-Ukraine Association Treaty, trade agreements, such as the Transatlantic Free Trade and Investment Treaty TTIP, and agreements such as the Stability Pact or the European Banking Union fall outside the scope of the proposal. Previously, the Council of State had also noted this in its opinion. And during the debate in this Chamber two years ago, the then Minister of the Interior rejected the present proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u24	I would like to ask Mr Sini whether, in his opinion, matters such as the trade treaty in the process of being signed with the United States could be covered by a broader interpretation of Article 91 (3) of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u25	I would not like to go that far, and that is what I am talking about in my contribution. On the front side, both chambers already have many possibilities to influence decision-making when it comes to these types of treaties. All in all, the Committee, like the Thomases Committee, recommends that a broader interpretation of Rule 91, third paragraph, Constitution should be made in the sense that not only the content of a specific constitutional provision is relevant. Mr. Chairman. At such a reading, the Van der Staaij initiative proposal is superfluous. What my group has been rather surprised about is that the Remkes Committee, without any justification, suddenly points out that if its opinion is not taken up, it recommends that the Van der Staaij proposal should be taken as a starting point. In our opinion, the last sentence comes out of a box without any argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u26	In fact, the Labour Party concludes that the point of the Remkes Committee that the initiative proposal should be followed if Rule 91 (3) is not extended, if a devil comes out of a box. At the same time, you say that you do not see any grounds for further explaining Rule 91 (3). So what does the Labour Party intend to do in this area?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u27	First, I want an answer to my question. I will then take a decision with my group. I would have liked this procedure to have been postponed until we had the cabinet response to the report. As I said earlier, I do not support that last sentence in the opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u28	The Labour Party therefore has no view at present as to whether or not to give a broader explanation of Article 91 (3). For the report, I would add this. In my first term, I referred to Article 93, but that must of course be Article 91. That was a slip of the tongue. That for the Acts. But you have no views on Rule 91 (3). Then what is still necessary for you to be able to express an opinion? You yourself have indicated that this discussion has been going on for a very long time. How much more clarity do you need and can you still get? As you yourself say, this is a long time. What else is needed for the PvdA to clarify? Give yourself some clarity about where you stand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u29	As far as my group is concerned, we are sticking to the current Constitutional provision, Article 91 (3). It covers the load when it comes to what Mr Van der Staaij wants. If you raise that to standard and apply that article to every treaty, we think it should be enough. We therefore consider that the proposal is superfluous, but with the coming of the report we consider it appropriate to hear the author and the Minister on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u30	Finally, Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u31	Now I can no longer follow the direction of thought of the PvdA at all. Because you say we have to apply this article, but this article already exists. At the same time, you are not moving towards a further extension of the article. So you're actually saying we're just not gonna do anything. That's my conclusion. We would then have to follow the judgment of the Remkes State Commission and we would have to embrace this initiative proposal, because you do not want to show any movement in this area. That's the conclusion I'm drawing from this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u32	No, we didn't need this proposal. In fact, we believe that the existing article is sufficient and we think, above all, that there are enormous opportunities for both chambers to influence EU decision-making. Mr. Chairman. Our fundamental, practical and legal systematic objections to the proposal, as expressed earlier by my predecessor, Writer, remain. My group indicated in that debate that the Van der Staaij proposal is clearly both too broad and too limited. We recalled that treaties that deviate from our Constitution already have the high threshold of a two-thirds majority under Article 91 (3) of the Constitution. How does the author view the now reconfirmed opinion of a broader interpretation of Article 91, third paragraph of the Constitution? I also ask the Minister if she can give her opinion in anticipation of the cabinet response to the report. Does the author and the Minister agree with my group that the above-mentioned broader explanation is preferable to following the path of the initiative proposal? Now that he has taken note of the committee opinion, does the initiator agree with my group that his proposal could lead to an 'experiment' that the European Union can sometimes even cripple? We look forward with interest to the reaction of both the initiator and the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u33	Thank you, Mr. Sini. I give the floor to Mrs Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u34	Chairman! Patience is a good thing, a good thing, and the initiator has it. That's worth a compliment. Because for the second time, he had to keep his legislative proposal until a state committee considered his own initiative law. The Christian Union Group loves research and reflection, but ultimately it has to be chosen. Today is finally here. And the initiator can put in his pocket that both state committees are certainly not negative about his proposal. Yes, there are ifs and buts, very well underlined by a number of colleagues before me, but they are there with all the solutions put forward and can in any case not be a supporting argument to leave everything as it is, so much is soon clear when you follow the reports. For our Constitution, unlike many other European countries, does not at present have an effective provision requiring an increased or constitutional procedure at the time when the Netherlands concludes a treaty with profound consequences for the legal order, or at the time when powers are transferred to international bodies, to the European Union. As long as there is no clear derogation from the Constitution, there is no special procedure. Article 91 (3) of the Constitution has so far been interpreted restrictively that it has not been invoked for any of the EU's fundamental treaties. Whether it was the European Constitution, the euro or the accession of countries to the EU. That wrings. There's gotta be another way. That was my group's view in the first term, and the Christian Union still thinks so. So that's what both state committees say. Unanimously, they reject the current interpretation of Article 91 (3) of the Constitution. It is too scary and is therefore too little, almost not used. But what is the most perfect solution? There are actually two possibilities: an extended interpretation of Article 91 (3) of the Constitution, and the Van der Staaij legislative proposal. In any case, both options improve the current situation. At both possibilities there are also raffle edges. Because new uncertainties arise if the proposal is followed in order to extend the scope and application of Article 91 (3) of the Constitution by now deciding that the principles and scope of treaties will also be taken into account. When does this criterion meet? In the footnote to the extended explanation, the State Commission considers the loss of control at national level or the change in the legal status of citizens. But that's undetermined, isn't it? Is this not a reason for many new discussions, whether or not a treaty requires a two-thirds majority? And is it wise that the Chamber has always had that debate first? Does this not raise the objection of the Constitutional Commission, called the Thomasses State Commission, that it brings in a very normative element? I'd like a reflection from the petitioner and the minister. In addition, the problem continues to exist in the first term, already appointed by Mr De Graaf of D66, that the Chambers judge differently whether or not to apply Article 91 (3) of the Constitution. There is currently no constitutional dispute settlement for disputing chambers. But if we are going to explain Article 91 (3) in greater detail, the risk of such a dispute is greater. How do minister and petitioner see that? An extended explanation of Article 91 (3) sounds nice, but easier than it is. If you want to deal with the differences between the two Chambers in applying the two-thirds majority, it really requires a dispute settlement, and I noticed that a majority of the Constitution Committee therefore chose to amend the Constitution. In the recent opinion of the Remkes State Commission, it is a little more concise and these legitimate objections by the Thomasses Committee are not addressed. Mr. Chairman. All in all, the state committees don't make a choice, they point a direction. It is now up to this Chamber to make choices and I am thinking in particular of those parties who supported the motion for an inquiry by the State Committee. The two state committees actually show that the Van der Staaij bill offers a solution. It's definitely better than the status quo. Yes, it is said that the additions to the initiative proposal are too broad in some respects, but it has also been described several times that this is more room for study than real estimates that there are continuous treaties that do not actually involve any major changes. Yes, it is said that some of the additions do not include enough. The Constitutional Commission already proposed to add a material element for treaties other than the EU's fundamental treaties. That is a path that my group would like to explore, but that does not have to stand in the way of the amendment of the Constitution now with regard to EU treaties. Do not let that possibly better now become the enemy of good. The Netherlands has compared with other European countries a Constitution which does not take into account the protection of sovereignty, the legal status of citizens. The proposal for an initiative is right to change that. Yes, there are some comments to make, but two state committees of scholars have not been able to put forward a more complete proposal. In fact, it has not been shown that better work can be done. That is also simply a compliment to Mr Van der Staaij which I am happy to give today. In broadening the interpretation of Article 91 (3) of the Constitution, the objection of the Thamassen State Commission remains that it is normative and will call for discussion. In addition, a dispute settlement should be devised if the Chambers disagree. Choosing for extended explanation is therefore an uncertain and time-consuming path. And the worst thing this Chamber can do today is to reject this bill, without being sure that the recommendation of the Remkes State Commission is indeed feasible and within a reasonable period of time. That would not do justice to the opinion of the Remkes State Commission, which we ourselves asked for. The Christian Union Group therefore wishes to reaffirm its support for the amendment of the Constitution in this third term, so that a two-thirds majority is needed when the Netherlands transfers control to the EU. This bill provides for this and we will wholeheartedly support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u35	Could you stand still, Mrs. Bikker?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u36	What is not entirely clear to me is whether you could also live with an extended interpretation of Rule 91 (3). Because if that were to be done in a good way, so a dispute settlement and more clarity as to how that could be applied, would you agree with me that it would not be necessary to accept this bill? Mrs Bikker herself states that it may be too wide here and there, and that we do not yet know exactly how that will work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u37	That too broad aspect is more your objection. For a number of treaties, perhaps too soon a two-thirds majority will be taken. Of these, however, the Thomassen Committee has shown that this will occur especially in study room variants. It is only EU treaties, but if, for example, international jurisdiction is further organized, it can of course affect the legal status of citizens. At a time like this, you can imagine that the Constitution also says more about this than the current Article 91 (3). So I have made it quite plain that I understand the recommendation of the Thamassen Committee that a material element is needed for this. That is not what Van der Staaij is offering, but I think we should not put that in the way of what is now before us. For this is a clear improvement in the light of the two state committees. Your other question: can you also live with an extension of Article 91 (3)? That depends entirely on whether that's workable. The state committees are not expressing a sufficient opinion on this issue. Thomassen actually indicates the objections for all options. When I read that, you can read that in my first term, I came to the conclusion that the Van der Staaij option contains the least raffle edges. We must take a step, I think, when I read that, and none of the steps is without raffle edges, where Van der Staaij has the least. They're there, I'm honest about that, but they're not harmful. Now Remkes says it could be done with the extended explanation. But he does not say anything on this point about a dispute settlement arrangement between the two Chambers. Thom de Graaf rightly argued at the time in Article 91 (3) that, if we were to broaden it, there would be a greater chance that this discussion would take place, especially as there would be a material standard, namely the weighing up of a Chamber or that this would be sufficiently expressed in the wake of the proposal to say that this should not deviate from the Constitution, so that a two-thirds majority should be organised. You bring in a normative element on which both Chambers have to give a judgment, without having a dispute settlement arrangement. For me, it can all be sorted out, but the stupidest thing you can do is to vote out Van der Staaij now, which both state committees say is a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u38	I actually heard you say that there are some uncertainties in the proposal, given that wide application. You call that study problems, but those are problems that are not always fully foreseeable. So they can actually occur. You attach great importance to the advice of the Remkes Committee, you say that we have not asked for it for nothing. This committee says explicitly: first, go down the road of Rule 91 (3). And yet Mrs Bikker seems to be getting over it quite easily. I can't quite understand that. That is why my question is: do you suggest that the Chamber should decide to do so and that the Minister should take the lead in its work? These are precisely the problems that Mrs Bikker has just described. Why do we not wait for them? What is the rush to amend the Constitution, while there are still so many uncertainties and perhaps a possibility to settle it satisfactorily in another way?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u39	"Haast" is of course a relative concept. For a party that's been around for 100 years, that's different...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u40	In the eyes of the SGP, this was a lightning action, so I dare say so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u41	I admire the angelic patience of the men's brothers! But on this very point, in my opinion, the Thomasses State Commission has reflected more broadly than the Remkes State Commission. However, at this point in time the Remkes State Commission is coming up with the opinion to consider whether Article 91 (3) could be interpreted more broadly. I am missing two elements that Thomassen has raised as objections to this, namely that normative element, which is going to cause a lot of discussion in the Chamber every time whether it should be by two-thirds majority or not. The question is whether you should want to do that, even as a room, so whether you like that position. The second is the dispute settlement mechanism, of which the Remkes Commission is not aware. I'll let you look into that, but if you vote away the Van der Staaij bill now, the Party for Animals isn't there, so I can say you're selling the bear's skin before it's shot.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u42	Finally, Mrs Strik, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u43	I keep thinking it's a strange argument. The Christian Union does ask to find out the way of this broad explanation, at least it would be okay if that were further developed. But you have to do that before you decide to change the Constitution? You can say that this has been the case for 13 years, but it is a far-reaching decision. Why not first follow the less radical path and see if we can also regulate this strengthened parliamentary majority before we make the wide choice in one go, which may not prove necessary in the end?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u44	I can explain that easily, because that has actually been the first term of my input. I am standing here today with a cheerful mind, because two state committees say: Article 91 (3) is currently too limited. There are a number of speakers who also have a certain number of seats behind them, but so far it seems in this Chamber that we could achieve a better guarantee of Dutch interests, that it is not just a simple majority but can be organized by two-thirds majority. So I don't want to just shoot that. That is why I said: I am in favour of the Van der Staaij bill. I have also explained this honestly in my first term, because I have weighed up the objections of the Thomases Committee. The Remkes Committee is less involved in this, let me say nicely. I'd be happy to hear how the government appreciates that one more time. I'm open to that. But if you put the Thomasses committee next to the Remkes committee, then there is not much to speak of against the Van der Staaij bill. In fact, you could look at a material standard, additional to treaties other than the EU Treaty, because that is exactly where the gap is now, if you look at the Van der Staaij bill. But that doesn't stand in the way of the Van der Staaij bill. That's a supplement you can do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u45	I just said "finally," Mrs. Strik, so now it's really very short.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u46	I note that the Christian Union remains in its first position and does not interpret the opinion of the Remkes Committee in a way that takes it seriously and maintains the order of things as proposed by the Remkes Committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u47	You are right to see me sticking to my point of view, but that does not mean that I am not doing justice to the Remkes Committee. That is quite another thing, because that is precisely why I say: I am also willing to investigate everything, but the worst thing that could happen today is that we are voting Van der Staaij away, while we are not sure whether the path recommended by the Remkes Committee is a viable one. That's what I'm warning you about. That's all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u48	Mrs Bikker actually says that the Remkes Committee does not take a stand, but how does she view the recommendations of the State Committee? Let me give you an example: use existing instruments. That is also what I mentioned in my contribution. Or look at a Europe law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u49	I am not saying that the Remkes Committee does not take a stand, because it takes a clear stand and that is a wonderful statement. I would just like to point out two objections raised by the Thamassen Committee against the extended interpretation of Rule 91 (3): the normative element that you are introducing and also the dispute settlement arrangement that is not there between the two Chambers. The Remkes Committee does not consider these objections in its report. I think it is important to weigh them before you say: we need to broaden Article 91 (3). The Remkes committee says: Van der Staaij also offers a solution. Well, then we have the luxury of perhaps two solutions, one of which is not certain. I would be very sorry if we voted out of Van der Staaij today or next week, when we are not even sure that the other road is a passable route, because the objections of the Thomases Committee have not yet been sufficiently refuted by the state committee. That's my plea.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u50	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. I give the floor to Mr Köhler.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u51	Mr. Chairman. In the first two deadlines of our debate on the Van der Staaij initiative proposal to require a two-thirds majority in future for the adoption of EU treaties, I have already explained why the SP Group is in favour of this proposal. The third deadline for this debate is to respond to the opinion of the State Committee on Parliamentary System, the Remkes Committee, at the request of our Chamber, on the subject of the own-initiative proposal. This opinion states that the Remkes Commission is in line with the opinion of the 2010 Constitutional Commission to extend Article 91 (3) of the Constitution, which requires the adoption of treaties derogating from the Constitution to a two-thirds majority. If the government and parliament do not choose to do so, the Remkes Committee recommends adopting the Van der Staaij initiative proposal. Mr. Chairman. This brings the opinion of the Constitutional Commission, the Thamassen Committee, which has not been followed by Parliament, to the attention of the House. That committee not only recommended a wider application of Rule 91 (3). It also advised the majority to add a fourth paragraph to this Article. I quote: 'In addition to a provision on treaties derogating from the Constitution, this majority wishes to ensure that important treaties for our country and the constitutional system can count on a broad parliamentary democratic legitimacy'. The Thomassen Committee then discussed in its opinion the advantages and disadvantages of different ideas on such a provision to be added to the Constitution, including the Van der Staaij initiative proposal, without making any choice about the various proposals in this regard. It is therefore absolutely not the case that the Thomassen Committee has a negative opinion on the Van der Staaij initiative proposal, but only on pages 119, 120 and 121 of the opinion of the Thomasses Committee. So if we only read the Remkes Committee's recommendation as an encouragement to apply Rule 91 (3) more broadly, that is a step backwards. However, we also want to know what the Minister thinks of this recommendation. However, we would prefer to continue with the advice of the Thomases Committee to add a provision to the Constitution that a two-thirds majority is required in treaties which I quote again 'dedicate real powers to international organisations' or, I quote, 'which have important implications for national constitutional order'. That was the opinion of the Thomassen Commission, and the Van der Staaij initiative proposal provides for this. It is not a solution for all conceivable cases where treaties would require a two-thirds majority. But it is a solution to the problem that further transfer of sovereignty to the European Union can now proceed by a simple majority. That is also the real question we are faced with: are you in favour of it or do you think that this far-reaching transfer of sovereignty will in future require a two-thirds majority, in line with the majority of the Thamassen Committee? Mr. Chairman. We conclude that the reading of the report by the Thomasses Committee, to which the Remkes Committee refers, strengthens us in our positive appreciation of Mr Van der Staaij's initiative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u52	Thank you, Mr. Köhler. I give the floor to Mr Knapen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u53	Madam President. If the term "sustainability" were to need a last name, I think we would choose the name Van der Staaij. For more than a decade he has been rolling up this initiative proposal like a rock. That deserves respect and admiration. The List Pim Fortuyn, with group leader Mat Herben, had already started in 2006 and the adversities of this initiative are already dust for a thesis on state law in itself. In this house, two years ago, everything was actually discussed about this initiative proposal. The two-year postponement of the motion adopted by Mr Duthler was only intended to assess whether the State Committee on Parliament's system, the Remkes Committee, would offer new insights and a different context. Well, that is hardly the case, as we know by now. The committee is in favour of extending the current Rule 91; it has already been recalled. This Article already provides for a two-thirds majority to be requested in the case of the adoption of treaties, where a treaty contains provisions derogating from the Constitution. Madam President. Much has changed since this initiative came into being. Since the Treaty of Lisbon, we have had a parliamentary reservation, yellow and orange cards with subsidiarity concerns. Parliament, the House of Representatives, is closely involved in the preparation of treaties and in the final phase again in national approval procedures. And it has been said before, two years ago: why in this draft law only this additional brake on the introduction of European treaties? Why not call it the Council of Europe, the World Trade Organisation and so on? The response of initiator Van der Staaij two years ago was not very convincing in this respect. To quote our former colleague, Mr Schrijver, and I quote: 'Why should democratic legitimacy be increased if a minority of a third plus one can block all European decision-making? What is legitimate about that, what is democratic about it and what is representative of it?" What also makes sense is the exception clause that was added to this initiative five years ago. If the European Union gives powers back to the Member States, there is no need for an increased procedure, but if the Union wants new powers to be added. In other words, this is not about the principle, it is about the direction. Renationalisation becomes easier and pooling of sovereignty becomes more difficult. That is ultimately the idea behind this initiative.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u54	Mr Knapen said, through a quote by Mr Schrijver, that by adopting the Van der Staaij initiative proposal a minority of a third could block all European decision-making. I'm asking him to clarify that. The Van der Staaij initiative proposal is only about treaties of the European Union, isn't it? It's not all about European decision-making, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u55	That's correct. We're talking about treaties here. We are not talking about other measures of the European Union here; I am going to speak about this immediately. So there's no misunderstanding about that. However, I would like to explain this, because this initiative may be the mood of this moment, but not the reality of the European Union. In many areas there is integration which sometimes gives us the feeling of losing control. The Stability Pact, the European Central Bank's policy, digital harmonisation: all these things are affecting our society, but no treaty change is needed. It runs through directives, regulations, tertiary law and path dependence. But if, on the other hand, some marginal move with seats in the European Parliament would require a treaty change, then we could easily and pontifically block something like this here with this bill in hand. Isn't that supposed to be sovereignty? Mr. Chairman. I'm closing up. Everywhere we see scepticism and emotions about globalisation and about Europe. It's an object of intense polarization. The uncertainty and unease resulting from a loss of security are a serious problem. We must not underestimate that. But the suggestion that the nation state with renationalisation can bring back that security is ultimately and unfortunately an illusion perhaps a pleasant illusion, but an illusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u56	I actually have two questions. Let me start with the first one. I am not used to it from him, but I think Mr Knapen is rather hesitant about the scope of this bill: how can you manage to allow a third of a Chamber to act as a kind of blockade? I would rather turn around: even in the European light, looking at other European countries, it is not so strange to hang a heavier decision-making procedure on the transfer of national sovereignty. You put it all together with the emerging populism and you name it, but you can't say that from the EU countries that already have a much heavier procedure, similar to this bill? That is the first question. My second question concerns the fact that you have not yet expressed your views on what the State Commission is proposing: at least we should have a broader interpretation of Rule 91 (3). Would you care to comment on that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u57	I'd love to. I am not used to Mr Van Dijk listening badly, so it has certainly not escaped him that I have said I quote myself, to say that it has been a matter of waiting for the State Committee on Parliament's system to see whether new insights and a different context would be offered. That is how I continue, and we now know that there are hardly any new ideas, because that committee is actually in favour of what the Thomasses Committee had said at the time, namely to broaden the current Rule 91. As has been said here two years ago, that article does not say that anything must be contrary to the Constitution, but that it is different from the Constitution. If that is the case, it is sufficient to see whether there is any reason to allow the procedure described in Article 91 to function. That's what I've been talking about. I just didn't mention it as a game changer, because I don't think it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u58	But are you therefore in favour...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u59	Through the chairman, Mr. Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u60	Apologies, Mr. Chairman. I ask Mr Knapen whether the CDA is in favour of this broader interpretation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u61	We have always said that we are in favour of taking Article 91 as it stands. As has already been said, if anything deviates from it, it must allow for Article 91 to be made operational. Our group has no fear of this, as has been said here two years ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u62	Finally, Mr. Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u63	For the last time on this point, there is a certain practice regarding the interpretation of this article. This is a very narrow interpretation. Should we continue this practice, or is the CDA in favour of achieving that broader interpretation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u64	The confusing thing about this discussion is that we are talking here about the Van der Staaij initiative legislative proposal on treaties concerning the European Union. Of course, that affects Article 91, but it is a bit strange to place this initiative proposal entirely in the context of this. When you turn a screw in the wall, you don't get a hammer either. When we talk about how Article 91 works in practice, all kinds of useful proposals have been put forward which can be stopped. I understand that this was done in the debate two years ago. Mrs Bikker has also pointed out the things that are really lacking at the moment. The normative aspect, the dispute resolution, those are issues that you can talk about when you talk about making Article 91 more operational. But that is actually a different subject from the proposal to create an additional hurdle for European treaties, even if both subjects touch each other. As I pointed out, you can get very strange figures, namely that relatively formalistic things that lead to a treaty change are formally running into that two-thirds rule here, while there are all kinds of things that we may need to have a much more intensive exchange of views that have nothing to do with treaty changes, but are actually more involved in people's lives.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u65	My second question was about the way you talked about the one-third minority blockade. You can also turn around: many European countries have a heavier procedure for the transfer of sovereignty, but we do not know them in the Netherlands. The Jurgens motion has put its finger on this. Isn't that a flaw that should be solved?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u66	Sure, that's a flaw. Article 91, also in line with what Mr Sini has mentioned, does indeed offer opportunities to look at it. This proposal concerns the European Union. I think it would be wise to put the word'sovereignty' in a different context at all. When you talk about sovereignty in classical interstate relations, it has a different meaning than when you talk about the ability to act, the ability to act, the ability to exert influence in the context of the European Union. That is an agreement and a union of sui generis: not international, not supranational, but somewhere in between.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u67	Mr Knapen of the CDA actually goes from evil to worse. It already begins with the displeasure he calls. We can indeed share that there is unease. But instead of doing a hand-off to limit the displeasure in society about the transfer of our national sovereignty, about the complete undressing of our nation state, he actually says: we should not do anything about it, because it only causes discomfort if there is once a two-thirds majority here against a particular amendment proposal. Well, if there is once a two-thirds majority against a proposal, then apparently there must be quite a hurdle to come to that. So I wouldn't think too lightly about that. Why does Mr Knapen seem to find it pleasurable to transfer our national sovereignty to Brussels to a greater extent, as he calls it, to develop a sui-generis concept, to create a further federalist Europe where we are increasingly transferring our national powers? Is that what Mr. Knapen, what the CDA likes?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u68	I leave all the words that Mr Van Hattem says to me for Mr Van Hattem. What I find pleasurable is not the subject of the agenda here, but we can both talk about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u69	I could light up the heat a little more if that's okay with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u70	Exactly, Mr. Chairman. Then it actually comes to this type of subject. I am concerned to point out that it is a little too simple to suggest to people that this classic familiarity, certainty, security can be realized if you only say adieu to the European Union, as, as I recall, Mr Van Hattem said in his contribution. This country will not regain its total autarkie, total self-determination. The dependencies in the world, including Mr Van Hattem, who may have an iPhone in his pocket that will reach the whole world in one tap... That security of that nation state with those borders around it is not something we can get back in this way. That's too bad, because that had something safe and something comfortable, to use that word anyway. But it is not and we should not be suggesting that it is. It means that we have to be in a whole different quadrant of relations between countries, relationships between communities here in Europe, than the simple black and white "it's fantastic" or "get rid of it." Unfortunately, it is clear, but unfortunately it is not entirely reflecting the reality either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u71	I can see that Mr Knapen is now looking a little away from the essence of the problem. You're talking about an iPhone. I happen to have it on my desk, not my inside pocket. That device runs on superior Israeli technology, based on technology from a country that is not part of the European Union or other major supranational organisations to which it is subordinate. So it's possible. It is quite possible to function in the world without being part of the European Union you love so much. You are now saying about this initiative proposal that certain proposals are even harder on the citizens and that they do not require a two-thirds majority. But if you see that there is an undesirable development in this which leads to displeasure in society, what is the point of saying in other developments with a different transfer of powers, which does affect this proposal, that we simply do so by two-thirds majority and not by a single majority, just as it is regulated in many other countries, including the EU? This puts the Netherlands in a separate position vis-à-vis other EU countries rather than at an equal level, which is what you really want.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u72	Mr Van Hattem talks about the European Union I so much like. I'd like to know where he gets that. I suppose I'll get an answer to that soon...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u73	Let's just keep it down for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u74	... because those are words I don't want put in my mouth. My position with regard to the European Union is a simple one. We are an integral part of this. As you cannot choose all your neighbours in a street, neither can you in the European Union. You have to make the best of it, because that's how we are interwoven in this part of the world. I have said what I said about this proposal, which is the subject of today's debate. We have plenty of opportunities to influence this. We have plenty of opportunities to intervene in advance and afterwards. In particular, our House of Representatives is much more closely involved in everything that is happening in the European Union than many other parliaments in Europe. Some governments are sometimes jealous of that and some of them, of course, are not. So you can't just make that comparison. Given the mechanism we now have, I think we have been very well served to deal constructively with the reality of the European Union, of which we are an integral part.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u75	Mr. Van Hattem, you may make one short interruption, but I would like to conclude with a very brief, brief interruption on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u76	I'll be brief. Then we must conclude, whether or not it is a beloved European Union for the CDA and Mr Knapen, that he sees it as an inseparable point. He has said this literally: what the Netherlands is an inseparable part of.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u77	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u78	At the same time, you say that if we start working on it, we do not want to see an additional threshold in order to be able to transfer even more powers. I must therefore conclude from this that the CDA deliberately chooses to further undress the powers and sovereignty of the Netherlands and to transfer them to the European Union. That is what the CDA chooses, and we need to make that very clear here. I'm afraid that's all I can make of it. I call on you once again to support this bill, because you will take your citizens seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u79	I asked you briefly. It wasn't a question. This was a statement by Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u80	That's what I thought, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u81	Thank you, Mr. Knapen. I give the floor to Mr Ten Hoeve.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u82	Mr. Chairman. With all due respect for Mr Van der Staaij's work, I had not yet taken part in the previous stages of this discussion. Now that the decision has to be taken, it makes sense to clarify the opinion of my group. The large decentralisation operation that led to municipalities suddenly receiving so much more extra tasks that in many cases there was even reason to reorganise, was an operation with such consequences that it could almost be called constitutionally significant. Not really, of course. It changed the division of tasks and powers between the Empire, provinces and municipalities more or less considerably, but it was also fully in line with our constitutional order laid down in the Constitution: our provinces and municipalities, which can carry out their tasks on the basis of co-government or self-government and with an open administration. The large operation was therefore decided by a simple majority by the Chambers. The Constitution gives us guarantees in the form of fundamental rights. It determines how the country is politically organized and, moreover, hardly lays down the principles of our democratic system. The Dutch Constitution does not, of course, contain provisions on the establishment of larger areas, Europe or the world. We cannot regulate this in our Constitution. This is governed by the treaties to which we commit ourselves, or by higher bodies themselves, if we have allowed them to do so. The Constitution does impose restrictions on us. According to Article 91 (3) of the Constitution, Treaty provisions derogating from the Constitution must be adopted by two-thirds majority in the two Chambers, as well as an amendment to the Constitution itself requires a two-thirds majority, after the adoption of a law by at least a simple majority. This provides a closing system that regulates our internal affairs, which allows agreements to be made with others and also for agreements to be made by higher governments than our own Dutch government, but which ensures that this can never conflict with what we ourselves have laid down in the Constitution than only if at least two thirds of our two Chambers agree. These agreements can lead to the creation of partnerships and institutions that can become the character of a new layer of government or, we must say, a new higher government, seems inevitable and necessary at this time. There is much that should be regulated at European level, for example in OECD or perhaps on a global scale, and for which, fortunately, in the form of the European Union, a more or less workable organisation has emerged that keeps the gap between a partnership and a government. A set of institutions that have to be more or less difficult to reconcile its own more or less constitutional arrangements with originally 6 but now, in the meantime, 28 participants, who still have to achieve complete unanimity on many matters in order to reach decisions. In order to establish basic arrangements for the European Union, therefore, a significantly higher threshold has already been set than that two-thirds majority for a Dutch constitutional amendment, namely a 100% majority of the participating states. All decisions, including very far-reaching ones, can be taken by the Dutch Parliament by simple majority, except in the case of amendments or derogations from the Constitution. Is it not obvious, then, that decisions on matters to be settled at European level can be taken in the same way by simple majority, except, of course, when it comes to derogation from the Constitution? What makes decisions in European legislation, even in the case of basic legislation and in the case of the admission of new members to the EU, so different from other, sometimes very far-reaching decisions, I would like to ask the author. The question in European legislation is, and must be, whether sufficient countries, and often means that all participating countries can agree to a decision. In practice, therefore, it is almost always a question of difficult compromises which are extremely difficult to adapt to the wishes of a single frontier. Mr. Chairman. Finally, it's practical. A two-thirds majority is much to ask. This is evident from the fact that constitutional reform is a difficult matter in this country. The development of Europe in certain aspects to bind to a two-thirds majority can easily lead to the blocking of further development, especially in view of the difficult nature of the compromise of many decisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u83	I would like to ask Mr Ten Hoeve what he thinks about the fact that in 14 of the other EU Member States a qualified majority is required to adapt the EU treaties. Does he think it is irrational that they do so in view of the logic of the decision-making that he outlines?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u84	I do not tend to judge what is right in other countries. In other countries, political relations are very different, the way things are looked at and the way the European Union is looked at are very different. I note that, in some cases, such a system has sometimes caused major problems, which have fortunately been resolved so far, but which can also result in a situation which is difficult to resolve. In any case, I note that as far as our country is concerned. The last sentence I said was, I believe, that political development gives extra cause to face these problems. I would say that this would be irresponsible in the case of a government which is still forming or quasi-government which must continue to develop its form in existential crises. Doesn't the petitioner agree with me? Deviation from our basic values or basic design requirements, our Constitution, already requires two-thirds majority, and this is underlined and extra guarded by the Schinkelshoek motion adopted in the Lower House in 2009. That's what our guarantee is against violating our rule of law, isn't it? Mr. Chairman. I would like to await the reaction of the petitioner and the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u85	Thank you, Mr. Ten Hoeve. I give the floor to Mrs Duthler.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u86	Madam President. During the first and second term of the initiative proposal, Van der Staaij, my group has already congratulated her on the persistence of the initiator and his long term. It would like to repeat this once again, following the example of all the other speakers before me. In the context of the question of what problem this bill should solve and my group's question about the appreciation of the initiator of or the appreciation for the role and significance of the EU, Mr Van der Staaij stated in his second term on 24 January 2007 that the protection of our national constitution "may and must be strengthened." He has expressed his concerns about the distortion that has arisen over time. "European integration is going to win the protection of our national sovereignty and constitution," he said in his second term. The legislative proposal aims to increase Parliament's involvement and strengthen the legitimacy of the adoption of new or amended EU founding treaties and the accession of new Member States. My group stated in the second term that it shares concerns about the democratic legitimacy of the EU and citizens' discontent about the EU. At the same time, she wondered whether this bill would at all accept European treaties or amendments to them by both chambers. This is a little in line with what the CDA spokesperson just said. Are there also legitimate obstacles to handing over powers to the EU? On a proposal from my group, the Chamber asked the Remkes Committee to include in its investigation the instrument of introducing a qualified majority of votes cast for the adoption and amendment of EU treaties, as provided for in this legislative proposal. This has been discussed before. We now know the impressive report by the Remkes Committee. With regard to the present legislative proposal, the Commission notes in its report that the legislative proposal does not meet the objective pursued by the explanatory memorandum. The formal criterion on which the legislative proposal is based, namely that the treaties on which the EU is founded, is, according to the State Commission, too broad, because it also includes treaties which, while complying with the criterion, do not require greater attention in substance, and which on the other hand are too restrictive. Treaties which are expected to have significant consequences but which are likely to appear only after some time and are subsequently perceived as a lack of control or loss of powers are excluded. There may also be doubts about the effectiveness of the legislative proposal, as it will only be implemented at the end of the decision-making process in the EU. The VVD Group therefore wonders whether the proposal before us meets the requirements of high quality legislation. In assessing legislation, this Chamber is not only looking at the feasibility, enforcement and legal status of legislative proposals, it is also looking at the effectiveness of legislative proposals. It is precisely this effectiveness that the State Committee doubts, at least in this way the VVD Group interprets the opinion of the State Committee. The VVD Group would like to hear how the initiator looks at this. It also asks the government the same question. The VVD Group is faced with a difficult trade-off. Her previous doubts were not removed with the opinion of the Remkes Committee's report. Perhaps the initiator still has arguments that have not yet been discussed or neglected in the debate. Then my group will be happy to hear it. For the time being, my group believes that legislative proposals should be able to pass the quality test in any case, and in case of doubt: do not catch up! It looks forward to the reaction of the initiator and the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u87	I hear Mrs Duthler from the VVD saying that the bill is not effective. Could she perhaps explain what is not effective at a threshold of two thirds? Isn't that just a clear endorsement of a proposal? Isn't it very effective to assume that in all its clarity? I cannot imagine that a lower threshold would not be effective. Could you elaborate on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u88	Sure. When my group talks about effectiveness, it means looking at the objective of this legislative proposal and whether that objective with this instrument, the legislative proposal as it stands, will be well achieved. If you then see that there are treaties that can also have a significant impact on the Dutch legal order, on the Dutch constitution, then there are reasons to believe that this effectiveness is limited.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u89	The fact that this effectiveness is limited does not mean that it is not effective. It is indeed effective for the part for which it does work. It would, of course, be highly desirable to find modes for the proposals to which it does not yet apply, with the same kind of regulation being drawn up. But that does not rule out the fact that the legislative proposal is indeed effective for the part to which it applies. Can you go into that again?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u90	When assessing effectiveness, you also look at the instrument you use. You check whether you are reading with this instrument: the bill with the present content is achieving the goal you are aiming to achieve. That instrument is limited, as my group interprets. But I would also like to hear the views of the initiator and the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u91	Finally, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u92	Are we not getting to a point where we say: if something has a limited range, we just don't? Does the VVD stand for that? Or is it in all honesty that the VVD only finds it very difficult and that it prefers to take more power transfer to Brussels easily and quickly, so that the Dutch nation state can be stripped off again?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u93	I find it very difficult to give a reasonable answer to the question I am being asked, but I believe...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u94	No, don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u95	No, I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u96	I had a slightly different question for Mrs Duthler. As an objection to Mr Van der Staaij's proposal, she mentions that it is too limited, as other important international conventions with major consequences for the Netherlands are not included. I agree with her reasoning. Should I conclude from this that the VVD Group would support a legislative proposal for a new provision in the Constitution, an Article 91 (4) which states that this should apply to all international treaties with a far-reaching effect?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u97	My group has looked at several elements in the assessment of this bill. She has asked several questions. One of the questions is whether a two-thirds majority is not a very high threshold. Do you get any amendments to treaties approved at all? That's a question that's been asked. Another question is whether it can pass the quality test. So it is a combination of several factors that my group takes and weighs against each other in the final assessment of whether or not this bill will be adopted by my group, and in the vote next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u98	It has been used in my group to put back the arguments of other groups before we finally decide on our voting behaviour. In this case, I have a bit of a problem with that. I understand the VVD Group in this way, and if I am wrong, I am being corrected that it objects to the fact that other important international treaties are not included in Mr Van der Staaij's proposal. Do I understand that the VVD Group believes that this is a restriction on that proposal, which it is not in favour of at all, but that it would like to bring this forward? I don't think that's such a strong argument, to be honest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u99	But that is also a misinterpretation of what I said before. I have indicated that my group has looked at several aspects of the legislative proposal, that my group was not convinced in the first and second periods. I have also indicated which aspects my group is concerned with. One of these aspects is that we strongly review the quality of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u100	I now give the floor to Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u101	Mrs Duthler has looked at several aspects. I get two out of it: quality and effectiveness. The first is, I think, the easiest. If the bill were qualitatively inadequate, we would have been able to count on it, and we know the people who are part of the state committee that it would have been chopped. That may not have been said so parliamentaryly, but it had come down to that. So I don't think this point is too strong. The second is effectiveness. Maybe we can get on with that. The fact that Mrs Duthler is concerned about effectiveness indicates whether the purpose of the bill is being brought closer. I understand that Mrs Duthler is also concerned about this very rapid Europeanisation. In the coming months we will hear a lot about this from the various VVD politicians on their way to the elections. If it does not want to take this bill on board now, how can we bring that objective closer, namely to curbing Brussels' excessive and excessive interference?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u102	That's not what this bill is about. As I understand, this bill aims to increase Parliament's involvement in EU treaties. In assessing this bill, my group has assessed whether we are going to achieve that objective. We have, of course, looked at what is important. It is important then to what extent treaties have an effect on the Dutch legal order, on the Dutch constitution. If you then note that this bill will only contribute to this, but I would like to hear what the initiator has to say about it. Moreover, effectiveness is clearly covered by quality. Quality is what I mean by effectiveness, feasibility, enforcement and the rule of law. But I got that effectiveness out of there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u103	Mrs Bikker, please be brief and concise, because I am looking at the clock.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u104	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I took the Duthler motion again, which still loosened the tongues. It is precisely there that Mrs Duthler made it very clear to the State Commission to review that instrument of that two-thirds majority. I would like to ask Mrs Duthler: how does she reflect on what the state committee points out?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u105	In its opinion, the State Committee focuses on these broad and limited criteria. The state committee does not say much about qualified majority voting. She doesn't really say anything about whether or not to raise thresholds. My group has therefore taken a very specific look at the aspect of the broad and narrow interpretation of these criteria.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u106	Then Mrs Duthler takes up the aspect of quality in her argument and the questions she now raises. Rather, however, that did not weigh so heavily on her group that she did not want to put the state committee to work. I think Van der Staaij was quite a hoop jumper. However, the impact of this two-thirds majority had to be assessed again. I can imagine Mrs Duthler saying that the state committee is not entirely clear about that. But is it not wise to check with the State Commission before we interpret 'hinaus' or 'hinein' here? Surely it is a bit of a miracle that we are getting back to the quality, while there was another objection from the VVD Group?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u107	The VVD Group had a basket of objections during its first and second term. She had hoped that the Remkes Committee would come up with a somewhat clearer opinion than it has done now. We haven't been able to see a cabinet response. So we haven't been able to involve them at the moment. And the bill is now pending. So this is what we're in right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u108	Finally, Mrs Bikker, and briefly!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u109	But at the request of the Duthler motion, we are putting a state committee to work for two years. And now there is no government rating and it is not quite clear what the state committee wants. And then the VVD says, "The bill, we just have to deal with it." I don't know. I don't know. Then I would expect us to stretch the care we have taken over the last two years to the limit, so that you can also make the full assessment with your basket of objections.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u110	What I can say is that this Chamber has decided to continue the third deadline for the examination of this bill. We are simply taking part in this decision. I have a feeling Mr. Engels would like to ask you a few questions, but I'm not going over this. Sorry, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u111	Mr. Van Dijk, briefly!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u112	Mr. Chairman. Just for the Acts, because now it's happening very quickly. A proposal has indeed been made in committee to wait for the cabinet response first. The VVD showed itself to be one of the major opponents of that proposal. I'd say you could come back to it. What is the opposition to keeping this bill, waiting for the cabinet response, then checking the basket with all your objections and then reaching a final conclusion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u113	Let us now wait for the third term on the part of the initiator and the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u114	Thank you, Mrs Duthler. I've seen that the initiator would like to be suspended for five minutes. I'll make it seven minutes. Then we'll suspend until 3:30 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u115	We will continue with legislative proposal 30874 (R1818). I give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u116	Madam President. First of all, I would like to thank all the Members for their thorough work. It has been mentioned that this bill has been dealt with for a very long time. That is right, it has been thirteen years since my then colleague Mr Herben brought forward this initiative proposal. And it's been 12 years since I took over from him. I think it's special that he's in our midst today, too. Mr. Chairman. There was also praise for the patience, although Mr Van Dijk had some relativistic comments on that on behalf of the SGP Group. But it is true: it takes a long time to move forward with this. But I must say that my patience has been rewarded so far. The longer we talked about it, the greater the support actually has become over time. In the beginning it didn't look like there would be a majority in the House of Representatives. He finally got there. I hope, of course, that the House will still be able to count on a majority until the last moment. Mr. Chairman. A few parties, among others the spokesmen of D66, the CDA and the VVD, have asked for the goal. What is the substance of this bill? I would like to emphasise once again that it is essentially about creating fair, constitutional rules of the game. The proposal removes a constitutional imbalance as regards the possibility for a simple majority in Parliament to decide on changes with a far-reaching impact on the Dutch constitutional order. Moreover, the legislative proposal is designed to take account of the European Union's own nature. That has been less evident today, but I have always referred to it as a secondary objective. The legal reality of a supranational European Union is also constitutionally recognised by this bill. Mr. Chairman. Several spokesmen, including Mr Knapen, have pointed out that not so much has changed in the course of time. Many arguments have already been put forward once and again. That is true, although I find it a special honour that the House of Representatives, before taking a decision on this bill, commissioned a state committee to take a good look at this, and that the First Chamber then considered it desirable to have a state committee look at it again. This honour is not shared by many initiators. Of course, I would also like to thank you for that. By the way, what I see as a change over the time of the legislative proposal is that some people first said: we see another solution; we should hold a referendum on certain far-reaching legislative proposals. The referendum has arrived, but it has now been abolished. So in that sense, we are actually back to the original situation as it was when this bill was tabled. Mr. Chairman. Following the report of the State Committee, the question has been raised as to whether the legislative proposal is not too broad and too limited on the one hand. It is true that the Thamassen State Commission has already put that forward. I have already addressed this issue in the first and second periods. The Thomassen State Commission said with caution that it was possible on the one hand to be too spacious and, on the other hand, too limited. My reaction to this is that you can say that it is too broad, because it also includes unimportant changes by the European Union. But my point is: that is actually a rather theoretical approach, because in practice those proposals which follow a far-reaching procedure that ultimately only deals with what is insignificant are not at all to be found. I note, however, that this is something that is now foreseen for the exit of a Member State from the European Union and its consequences. It is precisely the current treaties that provide for the possibility of retirement. The idea was that it should lead as little as possible to amendments to which all Member States should agree. It is a bit of a technical question to what extent the Brexit is still leading to a real change in the basic treaties. I see that there is a discussion among lawyers here and there about exactly what that will mean for a change to the basic treaties, but the main line is that retirement should actually be possible without amending the basic treaties of the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u117	It is only an example of a treaty amendment which is a formal amendment with not very profound consequences, whereas the initiator states, and I have heard this say here in the Chamber, that it is only a study room, a theoretical possibility, but it is not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u118	Well, I don't know, but those proposals haven't been passed so far. No historical example has been mentioned of which you say: this is an amendment to the European Treaty which is actually meaningless. My position is that, in the case of changes resulting from retirement, it was the intention of the Contracting States to make as little of them as possible result of separate treaties which would once again require the agreement of all the Member States. On the other hand, the question is: isn't it limited? D66, GroenLinks and the VVD have taken that point. We also discussed this last time. Indeed, there are trade agreements, association agreements, which may well have a far-reaching impact. That is true, but on the other hand, when it comes to a very far-reaching impact on our constitutional order, it is linked in particular to an amendment to the European treaties themselves. Mrs Bikker made that very clear. You may wonder whether the lid fits exactly in the sense of: have you now exactly named the agreements that have such a great impact on the Dutch legal order that this two-thirds majority is real in the framework of the Constitutional system? That is always possible, but I thought it was important to choose a clear criterion from the point of view of legal certainty. If we opt for treaties on which the European Union is founded, then you actually need the best possible criterion, even if it is not perfect. You will always say: shouldn't this be included? Shouldn't that be included? I have never heard or seen from all the state committees and the spokesmen of all the parties who have looked at it a proposal which was said: if you do so, it is better. Those who wondered about the situation in the Thomasses Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities: I note that in the end it did not express its opinion on this issue either. The majority of that committee has indicated that you should amend the Constitution, Article 91. Formal criteria have their drawbacks, but they do have the advantage of legal certainty. Material criteria may be even more beautiful and precise, but they again have the great disadvantage of a certain indeterminateness, a certain clarity. You'll have more discussion about that. I note that, in the end, the State Committee also did not agree on a uniform solution to what it should be. The committee then proposed that the Chambers should be able to grant the approval of a treaty, which is a substantive criterion, only by at least two thirds of the votes cast. The approach of this bill thus fits in with the approach of the Thomasses State Commission. I note that, in 2018, with the Remkes State Commission, for the third time in a row by authoritative experts who have studied the matter well, it is said: "Is there a problem? Yes, there is a problem, namely that Article 91, third paragraph of the Constitution is interpreted too restrictively." That was the third time, because in 2003 a Utrecht committee of scientists also looked into this and she drew that conclusion, even after discussing it in the Upper Chamber, especially by Mr Jurgens. That committee said: it is unsatisfactory, so we propose that the Constitution, Article 91 (3), be amended. After that, the Thomassen State Commission came in 2010. She said once again: current practice is unsatisfactory. That committee has put forward more versions on how it could be arranged, but has not made a clear choice. Now, for the third time, an external committee has looked at it thoroughly. She too believes that there is a problem in that there is too restrictive an explanation of the Constitution at the moment and that you should do something about it. I think that is an important moment, even when I look at the spokesmen from different parties who have put this forward. Among other things, it was clearly expressed by GroenLinks, but also by the PvdA Group and even more groups said: we recognise that we now have a problem. Then is this bill the best solution to that problem? I believe that this is the case, I say in all modesty, because it has the great advantage of legal certainty. I think that this is a very good thing, especially when it comes to interpreting the Constitution. It is important that we do not then have all kinds of discussions in the sense of: what is now covered and what is not covered? That is what I consider to be the great advantage of the chosen criterion in the legislative proposal. The disadvantage of choosing only a broader interpretation is that it is primarily uncertain whether it will actually be followed. Several Members were right to do so. Because how do you know that the government, successive Cabinets, successive Chambers, First, Second Chamber, will continue to choose an explanation if there is an old practice of many years on which things have changed so far, to explain it more restrictively? The second objection is: but what does it cover and what does it not cover? For example, those association agreements, would they be included? Take the introduction of the currency: instead of the guilder the euro. Would that even cover it? It is actually very unclear at the moment what is covered. There's a third downside to that. Because it is legally unclear and politically uncertain, you run more risk of different views in the First and Second Chambers or in the First and Second Chambers and the Government. In this way, there can be many more conflicts over the interpretation which are very difficult to resolve authoritatively.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u119	Mr Van der Staaij said that our group would recognize that there is now a major problem. My proposal supports the idea of greater parliamentary involvement, but we believe that this can be strengthened in many other ways than at the very end of the journey by a two-thirds majority. This concerns the issue of effectiveness, which the Remkes Committee is also referring to. Mr Van der Staaij will go into that further.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u120	Sure. Mrs Strik points out that in another way you can also do justice to the problem that involvement in Europe's rules is sometimes too limited from the point of view of parliament. I will say that all kinds of good initiatives have already been planned. All kinds of good proposals are made in the report of the Remkes State Commission. I am sure the Chambers will look into this further. But that does not solve the core issue, the core objection I have put forward. There is now a constitutional imbalance, in the sense that, for example, for the question of whether the mayor should be President of the Council, you need a constitutional change in two readings, with a two-thirds majority in the second term. For a relatively small change, therefore, a very difficult procedure is foreseen in the Constitution, while for very radical changes, such as the change of the monetary system and the introduction of euro coins, you do not really need a heavy procedure, because a simple majority would suffice. In my view, this does not do justice to the great impact, including on the constitutional order, which has such a proposal. If I measure it against that, will the bill be effective? Then I say: yes, then it is effective in solving that problem. It's not a miracle cure. If you think it's a miracle cure, it's not effective. I have always said: it is a modest measure that you take. It doesn't solve all the problems, but it does solve an important problem. The legislative proposal is also effective in achieving the secondary objective I mentioned as the second, namely giving Europe's supranational reality a place in our Constitution, so that it reflects more the legal reality. Mr. Chairman. After these more general remarks, which I have tried to bring together a number of points in terms of purpose and means, I would like to address a number of questions and points raised by the spokesmen. At one point raised by spokesmen from various parties, the Labour Party, the CDA and the OSF, I would like to make a preliminary point. Is Europe not locked? Is Europe not going to be paralyzed if we adopt this bill? My point is: no, that is not the case. It is not 'locking Europe', it is: putting a lock on the door. If you look historically, you can see that all kinds of legislative proposals have received a majority that was also a two-thirds majority, in the Netherlands and in other countries. Secondly, you can see that all kinds of countries have long been subject to an increased procedure. The Netherlands is the exception rather than the rule in not having a special procedure for EU treaties. So Bulgaria, Germany, Denmark, Finland, Greece, Ireland, Latvia, Luxembourg, Austria, Spain, Czech Republic, Poland, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Sweden: all kinds of countries have a special and often weighted procedure. Finally, in this context, I would like to make the third argument, in addition to the historical and comparative one, that so much more can and does happen in Europe than just amending the treaties on which the European Union is founded.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u121	Mr Van der Staaij mentioned that whole list of countries that know this. It probably goes too far to go all these countries successfully, but Mr Van der Staaij also mentioned Germany. The new 1992 German Constitution states Article 23, the Europe Article, which refers to the possibility of a two-thirds majority in Article 79 of the German Constitution. But the background to this article is quite a different one. The background to Article 23 in the German Constitution is the Maastricht Treaty, which actually states that Germany's political goal is Europe. So it is not a constitution that lays down the sovereignty of Germany, but one in which the goal is Europe. It is then established that a two-thirds majority may be required in that target destination, but in particular in the area of democratic assurance. Of course, that has to do with Weimar history. There is a fear that there will be a democratic gap. That is why the Constitutional Court sometimes comes forward. So you can't just call Germany, after all, it's an important country in the row of countries that have the two-thirds majority. But I like to hear it when I see it wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u122	Omnis comparative claudicat, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u123	Indeed, references have already been made to Germany, both by the Minister and by myself in the second-term reply. Indeed, as has also been changed in the written documents, every situation is just as different. But I also refer to the Thomasses State Commission, which says on page 115: in almost all the Member States of the European Union, a constitutional situation is foreseen. In almost all the Member States of the European Union, treaties derogating from the Constitution cannot be concluded before the Constitution has been amended in accordance with the procedure required for that purpose. That is already a more restrictive approach than that provided for in the Dutch Constitution. It provides for a lighter procedure. It states that, in many Member States of the European Union, a special procedure is also required for the conclusion of treaties conferring powers on international organisations or for the conclusion of certain conventions on the European Union. I would like to admit that, in every example, it has been dealt with differently: it is not all to be lumped together. However, my position, and this is also reflected in the Thomasses Committee on the Rules of Procedure, is that in many cases in the European Member States, when there is a transfer of powers from the national Member States to Europe, there is an increased procedure. In the previous period, I also asked various embassies how it works in countries and how it is implemented. That's what I shared here at the time. My proposal is modest in the sense that I do not say: you need a constitutional change. Even if there were a derogation from the Constitution, I will stick to the current system of the Constitution, which merely says: not two readings. So not, as some other countries have, a much heavier procedure of two readings, but a single reading. But that two-thirds majority. So I actually think that is a nice compromise, which this legislative proposal provides for in this way. I would just like to finish off with the spokesmen, in addition to these general points, to see if I can go into specific questions. I would like to thank Mr Van Hattem of the PVV for their support. He has also indicated that the two-thirds majority is necessary as a parliamentary gatekeeper, as a buffer. I believe that this is indeed a correct indication of the scope of this legislative proposal. On behalf of the D66 Group, Mr Engels was right to point out that the legislative proposal was retained with the aim of seeing if the State Commission could shed further light on this matter. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has asked what the Thomasses Committee is actually saying in the wake of a small debate. I hope that has become sufficiently clear because of what I just said. Otherwise, I would like to hear it when further clarification is needed. But I think it is sometimes a little confusing what the Thomasses Committee says, because on the one hand it works with unanimity, majority and minorities. However, on page 118 and beyond, the Thamassen Committee unanimously says that a broader interpretation and application of Rule 91 (3) is desirable. She says in a majority that a constitutional change is needed, but shows in the middle exactly what it should look like. In my view, that is the summary of the position taken by the Thamassen Committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u124	I had no intention of asking the initiator what was in the report of the Thomasses Committee. Maybe that didn't make sense. I was interrupted by people who argued that the committee considers that the criterion of the initiative proposal is too broad and too limited. We have just discussed that the committee is indeed of the opinion. But you have put forward arguments as to why you think that the proposal may have its flaws, but in your view it is the best solution. We do not share that view.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u125	Thank you for this clarification. I always attach a little bit of precision, especially when it comes to the question of what the opinion of such a committee is. They do not say that it is too spacious or too limited, but that it is possibly too spacious or too limited. They do not then make a negative assessment of this bill. The Group of the Party of European Socialists, Mr Sini, asked how we are looking at the other recommendations of the Remkes State Committee which also concern Europe. I would like to focus in particular on the recommendation on my legislative proposal. I assume there will be a response from the cabinet to the other recommendations. My estimate is that there is no such consistency between all these recommendations that you cannot look at this separately. This is really a separate question, namely whether or not you want to regulate that qualified majority also in the Constitution for treaties on which the European Union is founded.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u126	Those recommendations from the Remkes Committee on the Rules of Procedure have not just been made, because they see more virtue in that than in your proposal. You constantly claim that you have the support of both reports. But where does it really say that your solution should be implemented? As far as I'm concerned, that doesn't say anything. In fact, the Remkes report also calls into question its effectiveness, because your proposal is also coming to the very end of the procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u127	I didn't argue that the state committee's report states that my bill is a perfect bill. However, I have argued that the Remkes State Commission on page 336 also states that, overall, like the Thomasses Commission, it recommends a broader interpretation of Article 91, third paragraph of the Constitution, in the sense that not only the content of the concrete efforts is relevant, but also the underlying principles and their scope. They say that if this is not the case, then the State Committee recommends that we follow the initiative we are discussing today. So there's a problem. They prefer a broader interpretation. If this is not the case, if it does not work and if it is not the right solution, then they recommend that the bill should be supported.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u128	It is a pity that the state committee does not support that line. Why should the path of your own initiative proposal be correct?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u129	If there are no fundamental objections to it, it is difficult to say that this needs to be substantiated. They note that there is a problem with two different solutions, one of which is less far-reaching and the other more far-reaching, and they do not consider the objections raised to the legislative proposal to be of such importance as not to support it. They just say: our preference would be to choose that broader explanation. Well, I have just said that I see objections to this: it is politically more uncertain whether this is always the case. Legally it is unclear what that broader interpretation means exactly, whereas it is more likely to give rise to disputes. I must honestly say that in the past, of course, I have also thought of this broader explanation as a solution, which would always help a little bit. In such a debate, of course, you listen to others, both minister and spokesperson. The Minister for the Interior indicated in November 2016: other criteria for the application of Article 91, third paragraph will soon be too vague and undetermined. There is a firm explanation from the government and from the Council of State. Motive of this is the importance of legal certainty. In order to deviate from that, we think it is a little too far. That was at least until 2016 the government's position. Of course, I do not know whether the government's position has been influenced by the Remkes State Commission; we have to wait and see. However, I note that there is still a great deal of uncertainty as to what this broader explanation would mean and what it should look like in practice. I hope that this has given me sufficient justice to Mr Sini's questions. I already mentioned Mrs Bikker when she said that the risk of disputes is no greater if you choose that route of a broader explanation. Yes, that is indeed the case. In the analysis she made, I can fully recognize myself. The same applies to what Mr Köhler has said on behalf of the SP Group. The CDA, through Mr Knapen, has also rightly indicated that you can see that the debate has been thorough. We can actually see that arguments have already been discussed. Why would democratic legitimacy be increased if you chose this route of a two-thirds majority? My position is that in the system of our Dutch Constitution far-reaching proposals for the Dutch legal order, it is said that they go right to their far-reachingness by imposing a two-thirds majority requirement. I therefore follow the approach of the Constitutional legislator that it provides a stronger democratic legitimacy to have that two-thirds majority, compared to a single majority. Mr Knapen also indicated that returning to the security of the nation state is an illusion. I have always tried, and I want to continue to do so, not to mix the political discussion on which side you want it to go out with Europe with the constitutional debate on fair rules of the game. In my view, however you think about the European course, whether or not you want to allocate more powers to Europe, it is in the Constitution's system that the transfer of sovereignty and radical changes affecting the Dutch legal order should be subject to a modest development of the system of Article 91, third paragraph.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u130	I can see that very well. However, the logic remains in the air: this two-thirds majority is needed when, for example, the number of Member States is increased, but when a clear power goes back to the Netherlands it is not necessary. In both cases, however, this can lead to a considerable deviation from our constitutional order. My point was this: it does go one way in the proposal, but it does not go the other way. If you want to keep it strictly apolitical, technical and constitutional, you should actually do it on both sides.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u131	That point has indeed been raised in the two earlier deadlines. I said at that time: I understand that reasoning. In fact, that's why I chose that route in the first place. I was convinced in the House of Representatives that there are real constitutional arguments to say: the impact of transferring powers has changed for the Dutch legal order and of a different order than the powers that simply end up in the Netherlands. That is of a different weight and of a different order, is the answer I have given. Mr. Chairman. Mr Knapen also mentioned the mood of the moment. It doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. If Mr Knapen is merely referring to the scepticism about Europe, then it will end up in the political sphere again. I'm leaning towards the constitutional side. It is true that in 1980 a motion was adopted in the Lower House, supported by CDA, PvdA and VVD, which stated that, in the event of doubt as to the compatibility of the national Constitution with the importance of European integration, European integration must always take precedence. So our Constitution is actually subordinate to the importance of European integration. European integration above all else, because the nation state is actually a bit of a pass. I see, however, that is not only the politics of the moment that in 2013 another motion was adopted in the House of Representatives to withdraw that position and to say that we are not actually doing justice to the way in which we deal with our Constitution. In that development, this bill also fits in with that approach. Mr Ten Hoeve has asked whether this bill is not blocking and whether it is not irresponsible. I have just tried to point out that, in my view, this legislative proposal still leaves room for significant changes in European policy. Think of the association agreements, all kinds of other directives and rules that are given for which the two-thirds requirement does not apply. So I think that would provide a non-real picture of Europe's reality. He also asked what makes decisions different when it comes to the accession of new members. Does that have such a big impact? I have already indicated that I believe that the accession of Member States to the European Union will also increase the legal community, the political community and that it will also have an impact on the functioning of freedoms under the Union Treaties in such a way that the demand for a two-thirds majority is justified. I have already indicated that this bill, if you see it as a panacea for all European ailments, is not effective, because then it is only a modest contribution to solving problems. But if you see it as a problem, and I am doing so, that there is now a constitutional imbalance in our Constitution that can be repaired with this bill, then it is indeed an effective way to resolve it. Finally. I am going back to the debate that we have had the opportunity to have in detail in the first, in the second and now also in the third term, and look back at the Remkes committee, which says: first of all, see if it is the solution to go for a broader interpretation, but if that is somehow not the right solution, then choose this bill. Then my appeal to this Chamber would be a little in line with what Mrs Bikker said, and I also heard Mr Van Dijk make such remarks: do not say no to this bill. I note that this is now imminent before it is clear whether a broader explanation, with still so much uncertainty and so much uncertainty, can really offer a solution to today's practice, which is widely acknowledged as unsatisfactory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u132	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. I give the floor to the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u133	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, a few words of appreciation, of course, for Mr Van der Staaij, the initiator and defender of the proposal here, but also, of course, for Mr Herben. I think it is particularly important that a proposal he tabled 13 years ago should be dealt with here today in his presence. Very much appreciated. We know Mr Van der Staaij: he is defending the proposal very well, very well. This may be in line with the thirteen years it has already taken, but it indicates its perseverance. That is what he needed, and it was also called "angelen patience" today, because a proposal that was already referred to the House of Representatives in 2006 deserves special praise, on top of the praise that I always express when Members of Parliament take the initiative for legislation, especially if they do so in the way Mr Van der Staaij did it. This room is taking the treatment again today. It is clear that I am by far the least experienced of everyone here in the file. I'm actually just here, you might say. And, of course, I'm here as an advisor from the Cabinet in front of your Chamber. In 2017, my predecessor indicated on behalf of the previous cabinet that he did not endorse the choices made in the bill. This is also the view of the current cabinet. I would like to put forward a number of arguments which have also been put forward in the previous period. First of all, the current cabinet considers that Article 91 (3) of the Constitution is sufficient as a criterion for European treaties and that the additional threshold imposed by the bill for European treaties is unnecessary and undesirable. Moreover, parliamentary involvement in a treaty amendment is the most effective at the stage of the negotiation process. In addition, any legislative proposal for the adoption of a treaty amending the Treaties on which the European Union is founded already explicitly and duly addresses the question of whether Article 91 (3) of the Constitution applies. Finally, the Treaty practice of recent years shows that the criterion used by the bill can lead to absurd consequences. Very far-reaching issues, such as the Stability Treaty, are not covered and relatively minor issues. It has just emerged in an interrupting debate, such as the temporary increase in the number of seats of the EP, for example. This position of the previous cabinet, which I repeat, has already been discussed in detail in the previous discussion. That debate ended in 2017 with the adoption of the Duthler motion. The aim was to continue the examination of the legislative proposal until the State Committee on Parliamentary System had completed its examination of the possibility of setting higher thresholds for the transfer of powers to the European Union. As you know, the State Committee has now presented its final report. The State Committee made some critical comments on the bill. They are very much in line with the comments of the cabinet that I have just expressed. The State Committee also considers that the formal criterion used in the legislative proposal is, on the one hand, too broad and, on the other hand, too limited. It also doubts whether the legislative proposal is effective, as it will only be implemented at the end of the decision-making process in the European Union. All in all, the State Commission prefers not to amend Article 91 (3) of the Constitution. However, it is stated that the article should be interpreted in such a way that, when it is applied, it does not only examine whether a treaty deviates from the literal text of the concrete constitutional provision. According to the State Commission, it is also necessary to examine whether a treaty differs from the substance of a specific constitutional provision or from the underlying principles. If that were the case, it would be obvious that such a treaty could only be approved by two-thirds majority. I would point out that that is the current policy of both the government and the Council of State. Where this question arises, we first look at what constitutional provisions can be affected by a treaty. In any case, that is the starting point of reasoning. Nevertheless, in assessing whether the Treaty deviates from the Constitution or as such requires derogation, other aspects also play a role. This concerns, for example, the general scope and the underlying principles of the constitutional provisions which may be affected. In this sense, the current application of Article 91 (3) of the Constitution does not differ from the practice advocated by the State Committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u134	Can I ask the Minister whether that also implies that the Treaty of Lisbon does not fall within the scope of Article 91 (3) of the Constitution?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u135	We can, of course, now side with all the Treaty changes that have passed in the past. We can also side-step and test proposals that are currently taking place in Europe. I understand very well that Mr Köhler is asking. I just argued what the state committee has included in its opinion in the report. Mr Köhler just asked about this, because he asked whether the Remkes Committee on the former Constitutional Commission is actually a step backwards. No, that's not the case. A broader explanation is exactly what the Thomasses Committee proposed. So it's not a step back. If Mr Köhler wants to know exactly which treaty amendment would or would not be covered, I would like to come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u136	This is a little too general, isn't it? I do not mention an arbitrary treaty and then ask the Minister: what would be going on there, for example? I refer to a very substantial treaty, precisely the kind of treaty on which Mr Van der Staaij's proposal is based. I note that the current interpretation of the Lisbon Treaty by the government and the Second and First Chambers was not so long ago that it did not fall under Article 91 (3). Now the Minister, at least that is how I listen to her, says that Article 91 (3) should not be seen too narrowly. Then there is the question of whether a treaty as far-reaching as the transfer of sovereignty as the Treaty of Lisbon could be covered by a broader interpretation of Article 91 (3).
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u137	Can I say to Mr Köhler that this interpretation of the application of Rule 91 (3) actually applies since 2012, so after the Chambers have dealt with the Thamassen Committee? It looked at the issue of too limited and too broad. Thomassen went further in the recommendation. He almost wanted to say what the spirit behind the proposals is and what vision lies behind them. Could you interpret that as touching on the Constitution? It was said at the time by the cabinet and accepted by the Chambers that that goes very far. In doing so, we risk that it will not work properly in practice. So we're going to look at the concrete provisions. We're also gonna look at the scope. Since 2012, this has been the interpretation given.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u138	Finally, Mr. Köhler.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u139	But my further question as to how this interpretation would work would then not be able to answer now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u140	I'll make the distinction. I say that this interpretation was not given in this way before 2012. Since 2012, we have.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u141	I heard you very well. You were very clear, too. Uh, sorry. I heard the Minister very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u142	It does go through me. But you're almost done, too, because you already had three opportunities.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u143	Yes. My question was: would that newer interpretation, given the preceding Treaty of Lisbon, of which you are well-known, have made it subject to Article 91 (3)?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u144	That is a question that is difficult to answer, because fact is that this played for 2012. At that time the agreement of that explanation and its scope had not yet been made. You would then have to re-examine, after the Treaty had already been dealt with and already applied, whether that would be the case with the knowledge and interpretation of today. That is always a very difficult question in politics. It could be.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u145	Does the Minister actually say in her reply that the Remkes Committee, which was after 2012, has not taken account of this for years? Because that committee finds that there is indeed a constitutional problem. It therefore advocates a broader interpretation, or else, if it does not come through, the Van der Staaij proposal. Or do you say that the cabinet feels differently about the problem that that committee finds and does not share the observation of the state committee?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u146	No! This is an important point, because it has come back to many of the Members and also just in the debate with the initiator. Someone also said: we should actually ask the state committee. I sometimes feel the same way, because I am speaking now on the basis of what is in the report. I have the impression that the State Committee on the Rules of Procedure says that we must go into this way of explaining Rule 91 (3) in greater detail. I speak on behalf of the cabinet that we are not just the Cabinet, but also the Council of State, in practice, also using that broader explanation. In my view, that is not at odds with each other. In my view, what the cabinet is doing is exactly what the Remkes Committee recommends to do. But again, if you would like to know very precisely how the Remkes Committee meant that... I cannot, of course, answer that question on behalf of the committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u147	In any case, I think this is constructive thinking along with this Chamber, because I do read it differently. I have the feeling that the Remkes State Commission is indicating a deficit, although it is well aware that something has changed since 2012. But this underlines that we should actually engage in further discussions with the State Commission.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u148	I do not agree with Mr Van Dijk's interpretation, because in the report of the Committee on Parliament's Rules of Procedure, I read very specifically the opinion that we should not only look at the content of a specific provision, but also at its scope and its background. Very literal. That is exactly the explanation that this cabinet wants to give, and the previous cabinet has also said that it wants to do so. That's what we do in the interpretation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u149	I am pleased that the Minister indicates that this cabinet wants that broader interpretation. At the same time, the Remkes Committee says that you should choose. I can tell you that the Minister would like to know what Remkes thinks is wrong. Would she like to take this into account in her response to the report by the Remkes State Commission, which is still to come?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u150	Yes, it is. Mrs Bikker is absolutely right. That reaction to the whole of the report was just here on the table. Of course, we will discuss this. But I think it is also relevant for this debate that I should now give the explanation as I read in the report, which is in line with the advice given by the cabinet when dealing with this bill. While Mrs Bikker is on the Interrupt Microphone, I note that there is a difference between the Thomassian State Commission and the Remkes State Commission. That's what Mrs. Bikker just asked for. As I said just now, the state committee in 2010 wanted to go a little further in its interpretation. I believe he spoke about the scope of the Constitution as such. I actually called that the vision or the spirit of the changes. And that went and goes too far in this cabinet. In that case, legal certainty could be at stake. Therefore, if I look now at what the Remkes State Commission has advised, exactly as I have just quoted it; also the broader interpretation of Article 91, third paragraph, Constitution, I think Remkes advises what the cabinet says: that is how we see it and that is how we do it. In my opinion, therefore, there is no light in that regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u151	Thank you to the Minister for this answer. We're almost there, I'd say. But the minister thinks so. Somewhere I would like to have confirmation at another time that the Remkes Committee did indeed have this in mind. In my contribution, I did mention two objections which live on the basis of an extended interpretation of Article 91 (3). One objection concerns the normative element and the other concerns the dispute resolution that is not settled. Is the Minister coming to talk about this? I think both are very important if we go further along that path of this extended explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u152	Of course, I will come back to Mrs Bikker's question on this. Once again, I hear that some Members want to know exactly what the Remkes Committee means, but I am actually taking the text in the report of the Remkes State Commission very literally and repeating it as exactly what the Cabinet is about, and whatever the practice is, also with the Council of State. I will come back to the question that Mrs Bikker just asked. There are still a number of questions. I thought it was Mr Sini who asked for the possibility of an interpretative law for the interpretation of Rule 91 (3). As this Chamber knows, the first reading of the proposal on the general provision has just been completed. This means that the second reading will follow. The cabinet considers it wise to wait for them first, to see what happens at second reading and only then to see whether an interpretative law is necessary or possible. Mrs Bikker and others have drawn attention to the position of the Netherlands vis-à-vis other Member States in the EU. I think that even if this proposal were not to be adopted, the Netherlands would in no way be an outsider in the EU. There are Member States which adopt such conventions by qualified majority, but there are also Member States where this is not the case. There is a great deal of pride in countries where a simple majority is required for an approval procedure. I refer to Belgium, Cyprus, Denmark, Germany, Estonia, Finland, France, Italy, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Portugal, Spain, the UK and Sweden. They have an approval procedure whereby Parliament approves treaties by a simple majority. Then there are a number of specifications in a number of specific countries, but it is still many countries in Europe where they do so. If you look at which EU Member States have an approval procedure requiring a weighted majority, you will see, for example, Member States such as Bulgaria, Hungary, Croatia, Latvia, Austria and Romania. They have an approval procedure whereby Parliament approves treaties with a two-thirds majority. Again, there are a number of specifications. For example, Ireland, where there is always a request for a referendum. So it's very different. This can, of course, have anything to do with certain traditions and anchors in constitutions. They are simply different in different Member States. But once again, we are not taking an exception. Mr Van Dijk asked about the ideas of the European Commission for tax measures and a qualified majority. Would they be covered by the Van der Staaij proposal? First of all, of course, it is not clear what the Commission intends and intends to do with this, but it may well be that they would be covered by the proposal. Mr Sini also asked for another recommendation from the Remkes State Commission: on the introduction of a Europe law and on interparliamentary cooperation. I have just said that the cabinet response to Remkes' advice is still following. The State Commission has, of course, made a very large number of recommendations, including in the field of the European Union. We aim to offer that response to both Chambers in the foreseeable future. I don't really want to anticipate that. The only thing I want to say about this is that, in general terms, it is up to the Chambers themselves to take a position on the recommendations of the State Committee addressed to the Chambers. This applies, for example, to the recommendation on parliamentary cooperation. Mr Sini asked about the yellow card. Can the First Chamber draw a yellow card? That is indeed the case. Since the Treaty of Lisbon, national parliaments have also been able to challenge the First Chamber as one of the 40 national parliaments within eight weeks of the submission of a proposal. In the walk it is called raising a yellow or an orange map. Then I come to Mrs Bikker's question, which I think is the last question I have been asked. She wondered, because of the possibility of interpretation, whether an arrangement should not be made in the event that it would be different in the Chambers. Several actors in the legislative process can, of course, think about whether there is a derogation from the Constitution. I would add an actor to that, because it is not just about the Chambers but also about the government. Suppose the government believes there is no deviation, but the House of Representatives believes there is. We know the Reichswet approval and disclosure treaties. In so far as it provides a solution to the effect that a derogation should be provided for in the law on the approval of conventions. That's Article 6 in that law. If the government adopts such a provision and the House of Representatives then finds that there is no derogation, let me give you an example, then the House of Representatives can put it together and say that the approval must be by a simple majority. It is assumed that the First Chamber will then follow that judgment of the Second Chamber. Conversely, if the government fails to make a provision and considers that there is no derogation, the House of Representatives may, if it considers otherwise, amend a provision in the proposal for approval and then decide by qualified majority. Then the First Chamber follows, so is the expectation, that judgment. Given this possibility, I do not see any reason, in reply to Mrs Bikker's question, to take additional measures. In the end, of course, the judgment is simply up to Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u153	I just want to know whether I understand the Minister correctly now, even without my appreciation of it. Is the Minister now saying that if the House of Representatives finds that a two-thirds majority is required, she assumes that the House of Representatives will follow?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u154	What I am saying is that the Rijkswet offers approval and publication treaties that possibility and that this could initially be discussed in the Lower House. So if the government has said that it considers that it is not and the House of Representatives believes that it is, then the House of Representatives amends that in the legislative proposal. That bill with that amendment reaches the Upper House. The reasoning behind that is that if the Lower House has given that judgment, the Upper House will probably follow it. Of course, it doesn't have to be, because of course the First Chamber has to decide whether or not to adopt the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u155	I therefore believe that it is an independent authority of this Chamber to look again at how we judge it. In doing so, the Minister did not remove the fact that there could be a difference in assessment between the two Chambers. How do we deal with that? That was the question that De Graaf of Mr Engels' party asked very rightly in the first term. At the time, it was a narrow interpretation of Rule 91 (3). In the meantime, the government says that it stands for an extended interpretation of Article 91 (3), so it can happen sooner and we have not made any impact settlement, no settlement of a dispute. I'm a little worried about that. I would like to hear the Minister before making any further conclusions, but this surprises me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u156	A dispute settlement could not be called, but a fact is of course that the House of Representatives has the opportunity to amend it. It may make use of that possibility in the event that it considers it to be different from the cabinet. Then there will be an amended proposal in this First Chamber. If the First Chamber thinks otherwise, then it is actually quite black and white. Then it is yes or no to the proposal. I would not call that a dispute settlement, but it is, of course, the competence of this Chamber, namely the power of the last word.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u157	Finally, Mrs Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u158	Well, I guess I'll just find out that the First Chamber has a torpedo scheme. All we can do then is sink. But a difference of insight about a two-thirds majority yes than no... Mr President, people are starting to scream, but I have heard Mr De Graaf seriously about this at first, with a fair reference. I'll take that point and discuss it with the Minister. I am happy to exchange this with colleagues, but not so shouting. Madam President, to resume, there is therefore no dispute settlement and we are extending the interpretation of Rule 91. For me, that is a conclusion from the debate that I had not drawn before, at the beginning of this day, and which I regret.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u159	Mr President, I think that what I add does not convince Mrs Bikker on this point. That brings me to the end of my reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u160	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u161	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on this bill? Mr. Van Dijk, do you still want to interrupt the minister or do you want to interrupt me? What are we gonna do?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u162	I would like to interrupt you in the sense that I want to make a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u163	To know?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u164	It has been a great deal in this debate about a broader interpretation of Rule 91, or not, but it has been at least as much about the interpretation of the Remkes Committee's report. I would like to clarify this more clearly, through a discussion with that committee. And then, of course, it is mainly about what they mean by that broader interpretation. What is the current constitutional deficit? Can it be resolved through this broader interpretation and, if so, how does it relate to their remark that, if that is not the case, the Van der Staaij bill is an acceptable option? My request is therefore very specific in order to comply with this bill and not to vote on it yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u165	I would like to give the other spokesmen an opportunity to respond, because this is a rather exceptional proposal at the moment. Mr. Engels.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u166	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thought I was done, too, but now I have to take action. Let me get this straight. The Remkes State Committee does not say: if there is no broad interpretation of Rule 91 (3), we must embrace the Van der Staaij proposal. They just say that they should take that as a starting point. That could affect all kinds of parts of the bill. That's just a formal remark. Two. My group does not need another postponement. We've been very generous. We made a very clear statement in a motion that it was about the report of the State Committee. We do not need to wait any longer for a cabinet response, which will include very different things. So, as far as I'm concerned, we're gonna get the bill done on a regular basis next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u167	Thank you. Mr. Knapen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u168	I also think that this has been discussed fairly widely and that we have weighed all the pluses and minuses. Moreover, there remains an improper relationship between how we deal constitutionally with this article and the objective of the Van der Staaij draft initiative-law, which focuses on European Union treaties. It is not an initiative-based draft to specifically change Article 91. That would have been "by-catch" of this proposal. So we'd like to finish it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u169	Thank you. Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u170	I hear the opinion of the SGP Group here in the First Chamber, but I would also like to hear the opinion of the initiator himself. He may belong to the same party, but he may be able to explain himself as to whether he needs to continue and obtain this explanation. I would like to ask the President whether the initiator himself will be given the opportunity to express his views on this matter. That is what I would like to include in my further assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u171	My group does not need a further discussion with the Remkes Committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u172	Thank you. Mrs. Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u173	In the light of the Remkes Committee's recommendation, it seems to me to be so chic to check whether what the Minister thinks is in fact in line with the Remkes Committee. That does not have to take long and then we can still deal with the proposal within the time limit of this Chamber. So if that is possible within that period, support for Van Dijk's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u174	My group also does not need any delay. The Minister has reaffirmed here that government and Council of State apply standard and broad Article 91, third paragraph Constitution. That is enough for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u175	Thank you. Mr. Köhler.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u176	Our group, too, needs a conclusion, but if there are other groups in this Chamber who want some further information along the way of Mr Van Dijk's proposal, as amended by Mrs Bikker, we have no objection to it either. So we would like to support that order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u177	The Minister states that, in fact, she is convinced that she is already applying the comprehensive interpretation of Article 91. That is in itself relevant information in the overall discussion, but that is not decisive for me. As far as I am concerned, the vote can therefore continue next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u178	Thank you. I have heard the spokesmen, and I think that the balance will turn out to be a small majority of this Chamber. We've been working on this bill for a long time now. Mr Van Dijk's suggestion of order to hear the state committee on this point will result in a delay which, I think, is no longer being discussed in the light of the debate. So as far as I am concerned and as far as the Chamber is concerned, I do not think we will support this order proposal. I have heard Mr Van Hattem ask to hear Mr Van der Staaij's opinion on this, but on an order proposal the Chamber judges. I am not going back to the debate on this with the author of the legislative proposal. Finally, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u179	I'm very sorry about that. However, in this respect, I agree with the view of the SP, the Christian Union and the SGP that it is possible to postpone, partly in view of the interests of the initiator.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-eerstekamer-4.u180	That was clear to me. I suggest we vote on the bill next week.
