ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u1	The next item is the debate on the news that the US and Russia have announced that they will cancel the INF Convention. I welcome the Foreign Minister and give the floor to Mr Van Ojik as the applicant for this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A hundred more days, exactly 100 days. We still have 100 days to save the historic INF treaty of 1987 from destruction. 100 days to prevent a new nuclear race and increasing insecurity in Europe. The pressing question for this debate is what we can do in those 100 days. The government wants to retain the INF Treaty, but has uncritically supported the withdrawal of it by the United States. The Netherlands itself has been able to confirm Russia's violation of the INF Treaty, but is silent about the role of the United States. Could it be, I would ask the Minister, that the United States is not entirely impeccable? For example, there is a modernisation programme involving up to USD 400 billion up to 2026 alone. Can all this really be done within the framework of the existing nuclear treaties? Thus, a new cruise missile to be launched from the sea is also being developed and an investigation has been announced for a new medium-range missile system to be launched from land, "to put Russia under pressure," the US says. But Russia, in turn, is concerned about the American missile shield in Romania. In short, in order to save the INF treaty, we can not only look at Russia, but also the United States. Is that how the Minister sees it? And does he agree with me that even if the treaty is unilaterally violated, its withdrawal is not the right response, and that the US must therefore be encouraged by its allies to withdraw or at least suspend the withdrawal, so that time can be taken to discuss the violations of the treaty and to do justice to the legitimate wishes of the United States to include countries such as China in the consultations? We have 100 days left. What will the Netherlands do in that period? Are the Heads of Government going to interfere? Do we still see our prime minister in action? Can he, together with other Heads of Government, Macron and Merkel, put his weight on the scale to change Washington and Moscow's mind? I like to hear it. Mr. Chairman. "The cabinet remains committed to overall nuclear disarmament," we read again in a response to the AIV opinion. That's a good endeavor. But this fine endeavour is succumbing to the ultimate paradox, because only with its own nuclear weapon mission can we contribute to nuclear disarmament, the cabinet thinks. We want to give up our nuclear task only if it is no longer necessary, if all the other nuclear weapons disappear from Europe. That's how I understand Friday's letter. That's pretty weedy, I'd say. You can also say: that is a meaningless promise and a dead end strategy. It doesn't bring us closer to our goal, but further from home. That is why it is precisely the intermediate steps, the steps towards European nuclear disarmament. The moment of modernisation is a logical moment for this. This is also stated by the cabinet in response to the AIV opinion. That's now. I wonder what steps the Minister intends to take.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u3	Thank you, Mr. Van Ojik. I now give the floor to Mr Sjoerdsma on behalf of D66. Mrs Karabulut will speak at the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u4	Mr. Chairman. We're sleepwalking towards an arms race and it looks like the alarm clock's been pulled out of the socket. Today in exactly 100 days, on 2 August 2019, the INF Convention will cease to exist. Mr Van Ojik pointed that out as well. Russia has lapped the INF treaty. Russia has started developing a weapon that could have reached its target within 20 minutes of launch. In 20 minutes! This is detrimental to stability and security throughout Europe. It can even have global consequences, because, in addition to climate change, nuclear weapons are the greatest threat to humanity's survival. So we have 100 days to keep this treaty. A hundred more days to pull everything out of the closet to prevent this treaty from disappearing. But it's a little too quiet for me, really too quiet. I would like to make four points. First of all, we need to step up our dialogue with Russia. I would like to ask whether the Minister agrees with me that it should be his full commitment to maintaining this treaty. I would like to ask the Minister what he is actually doing right now to bring Russia and America to the negotiating table. I also ask him whether the NATO Council is the right forum, because Russia knows that it is rather less friendly to NATO Member States. I also ask him whether this is not a typical European interest. Where the hell is this European initiative? Who's shaking Mogherini up? I would also like to ask this Minister what Russia's reaction to all this is, except denial. Will the United States embrace the treaty again when Russia returns to compliance? The second point is inspection. It's important to see if we can resume the inspection. Is it possible to launch a new verification mechanism? The previous one stopped in 2001. Isn't there an opportunity for new mutual inspections, for example within the International Partnership for Nuclear Disarmament Verification, of which the Netherlands is a member? The third point is the extent of the problem. Sometimes you might have to increase the size of the problem to find a solution. Are the Russian violations now the basis of the problem, or is that the Chinese threat, for example? In other words, can we still solve this problem in a direct relationship between the United States and Russia, or should we call for China and other countries to be involved in the initiative to reach a global INF treaty? The latter would be sensible as far as my group is concerned. Fourthly and finally, Mr President. My group considers it unthinkable for Russia to be able to torpedo the INF Convention without using all the means of civil pressure. Is the cabinet prepared to use increasing European personal sanctions in the European and American context to maintain that pressure on Russia? Mr. Chairman. Despite the efforts of the Netherlands and its allies, the treaty may cease to exist. And normally the cabinet doesn't deal with as-dan reasonings, but here it does. In the event of the expiry of the INF Convention, there is talk within NATO of "defensive, proportionate and coordinated deterrent measures to ensure security, and also of the need to identify new, effective arms control steps'. With this there seems to be a little more thinking power in the aftermath than in the occurrence. I strongly ask the cabinet what is being considered and what is not. I also ask this because the German Foreign Minister has already spoken loudly and clearly against the possible placement of medium-range weapons in Europe. He says, "I can't fight fire by throwing oil on it." As far as I'm concerned, he's right to say that. Is this Minister prepared to do the same? Does this Minister intend to commit himself to a clear statement from the European NATO partners to make it clear that Europe is not a place for weapons that would be covered by the INF Treaty? And is this Minister prepared to say here already: no, in the Netherlands there will be no INF rockets, not now and never not? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u5	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to Mr Sjoerdsma. When I do my contribution, he will recognize many of his words in mine. It is good to note that we are allies in this. Related to our commitment to the INF Convention, namely continuation, control, control and ultimately a nuclear-free world, there is, of course, also the question of a nuclear-weapon task for the F-35. The foreman, the leader, of Mr Sjoerdsma's group, has made statements about this; he is against such a nuclear task. I would appreciate it if we could give each other a hand there too, so I would ask Mr Sjoerdsma if he can confirm that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u6	I always want nothing more than to shake Mrs Ploumen's hand. That's a little tricky at this distance, so we're gonna have to do that proverbial. But the ideal that my group chairman appoints, and which my party also supports 100%, is the ideal of a nuclear-free world. The ideal of a nuclear-free Europe. The ideal of no longer needing a nuclear weapon task. But I also have to say, and I hope Mrs Ploumen agrees with me that the context for achieving this is a little more complicated these days than he has ever been. I am not just talking about North Korea or Iran; I am, of course, talking about Russia's attitude. The Russia that has developed weapons that go against the INF Treaty. Russia is refusing to talk about what is happening there. The Russia that mixes conventionally and nuclearly. And Russia, for example, has also concluded a treaty on conventional forces in Europe. So that context, which has changed quite a bit to our disadvantage since 2013, makes that ideal harder to achieve. And that is why I think it is so important and so good that the cabinet wants to take that step, and also to fight for a nuclear-free Europe, so that we no longer have a nuclear-weapon task.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u7	It is true that the context is different now than in 2013. But Mr Jetten made his statement three weeks ago. And I read the newspaper every day, but I don't think much has changed since the beginning of April and now. So I would like to repeat that question to Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u8	Mrs Ploumen is now pretending that there is a difference of opinion between Mr Jetten and myself. That's not true. What Mr Jetten, my group chairman, also referred to, and I think that Mrs Ploumen recognizes, was the ease with which not only the AIV but perhaps other bodies and organisations assumed that the extension of the nuclear weapons task should simply be done by default without any thought being given to it. The good thing about this is that the cabinet is going to use that nuclear weapon task to disarm it. I think that Mrs Ploumen will recognize some of that as a policy that the old cabinet supported. That is perhaps also the paradox Mr Van Ojik mentioned: sometimes you have to use what you have to do to get rid of it. That's one. The second is, and that's new...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u9	Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u10	That is important, Madam President. Perhaps we should have this debate in the general consultation that Mr Van Helvert and Mr Van Ojik have requested on the AIV opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u11	Mr Van Helvert looks a bit like he doesn't know what debate you mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u12	Mr. Van Helvert knows exactly what it's about. But that's the moment of modernisation. I believe that this really gives the Netherlands, the NATO allies and the European allies a chance to actually achieve disarmament. Modernisation will not take place on this territory, but at that time these weapons will really have to be removed. In the worst case scenario, for example, this creates an opportunity for mutual transparency. At best, it leads to reciprocal proportional disarmament. I very much hope that we will be able to drive the latter forward with each other and commit ourselves to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u13	I have indeed spoken of a paradox. That's always complicated, hard to solve.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u14	My party likes paradoxes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u15	I know. It was set up, sort of, but we're gonna discuss it another time. I read the letter from the cabinet last Friday. It is almost an open door to say that if there are no more nuclear weapons in Europe, we will do away with our nuclear task. That is why it might be good to get this thing sharp again. The chairman of the D66 group said that the F-35 should not be assigned a nuclear weapon task. That is quite simply the position taken by the chairman of the D66 group. Then perhaps it is good to hear from Mr Sjoerdsma whether that is still the position of D66. Because the cabinet letter we received on Friday says something else. There's no other way to read that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u16	I know Mr Van Ojik well. I also know that he has been a civil servant and that he reads these letters correctly, but perhaps he should read this paragraph again. It says that this cabinet wants the Netherlands to no longer have a nuclear task. So the commitment is also to make that nuclear weapon task superfluous. It's not going to happen overnight. I have just outlined this to Mrs Ploumen. If Putin develops nuclear weapons and weapons that go against the INF treaty, we cannot just stop. Importantly, we must get rid of the complacency of simply continuing that nuclear weapon task. My group chairman made this very clear. We must do everything we can to ensure that Europe becomes nuclear free. That is something I think Mrs Ploumen recognizes from the previous cabinet. In doing so, the second thing is to ensure that modernisation or the upcoming modernisation is used to actually achieve these serious steps. I said that, in the worst case scenario, it leads to mutual transparency. Then we finally know where those things are, how many there are and how useful they are. At best, we can use them for mutual disarmament, because at that time they are also being removed from the continent. And I have to say: this eventually leads to more. I hope that Mr Van Ojik agrees with me. Mutual disarmament leads to fewer nuclear weapons in this world.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u17	Finally, Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u18	Yes, I read the letter correctly. I also understand that we are fully in agreement on the objective, namely not nuclear weapons on European territory, and that we are discussing how to get there. Let me say again: according to the chairman of the D66 group, one of the things that was needed was not to assign a nuclear weapon task to the F-35. Now I read that the cabinet says: if all nuclear weapons are from Europe, we will not take up that nuclear weapon task. No, that had to be added, I say to Mr Sjoerdsma. All nuclear weapons from Europe are gone, but the Netherlands still has a nuclear weapon mission. I think it's rather weird that we don't want that. Mr Sjoerdsma has always said that the situation has changed, but Mrs Ploumen has also pointed out that this is not the case in recent months. Has something changed in D66's point of view? That's not bad at all, GroenLinks sometimes changes his point of view about things, but just say so, so we know where we stand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u19	The short answer is no. Of course, that position has not changed. That is also because we want to get rid of these nuclear weapons tasks. We want a nuclear-free Europe. We want a nuclear-free world. I do wonder what Mr Van Ojik's proposal is, which is implicit in his questions. I can't ask you that anymore because he's been there himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u20	No, you should have done that before.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u21	But maybe this way I can challenge him a little bit...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u22	No, I'm going to see Mr. Koopmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u23	...to answer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u24	You must be careful, because Mr Van Ojik has finished his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u25	But he didn't have as sharp a position as he is now. So that is an unexpected side of Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u26	You may give a short response without summaries of what has been said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u27	I would be happy to do so, Madam President, as you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u28	You'd be happy to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u29	If you say that you no longer want those Dutch core tasks, I understand that you use this in a negotiation process to encourage the other party to take certain steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u30	Yes, you do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u31	Of course. I think that is perfectly normal and part of international diplomacy. If you say that you're only doing it if all the nuclear weapons from Europe are out there, that's almost literally what's in the cabinet's letter. You take a different view than you did when you said that we're not gonna equip the F-35 with a nuclear weapon task.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u32	I'm going to see Mr. Koopmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is very nice what has just been exchanged, at least if I have understood Mr Sjoerdsma correctly, that you must have nuclear weapons once in a while in order to have a good position in negotiations to ultimately achieve mutual disarmament. But I heard him say earlier in his speech that weapons are never placed in Europe at all costs which fortunately are not yet here under the INF Treaty. Then he says, in my opinion, if Russia puts down all this kind of horrible and now illegal weapons and regardless of the threat, we will not respond to that threat. Isn't that naive? Where he just said that sometimes you have to have things to negotiate for them to leave, don't you have to have those things to get to that disarmament?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u34	This is a fundamental point and perhaps even more fundamental than the discussion we have just had. This is a question of how we want to prevent the arms race that is threatening now that this INF Treaty is being terminated. I have listed a lot of measures, and Mr Van Ojik has done so for me, to ensure that the INF Convention continues to exist in one form or another. Whether that is between the United States and Russia, whether global or otherwise, it is about ensuring that the development and deployment of such weapons, conventional or nuclear, cannot, cannot and will not happen. I also think it is very important that once this treaty is broken, which threatens to happen on 2 August, 100 days from now, we do not take all kinds of steps that make things worse. There has been a motion by Mrs Leijten van de SP, in my view in February, on the non-deposition of nuclear weapons in Europe, which I think is a sensible motion. I believe that this should actually apply to any weapon that is part of the INF Convention. If that treaty were to be torn apart, I do not see that we will then be throwing oil on the fire. Not only do I agree with you, but the German Foreign Minister agrees with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u35	Finally, Mr Koopmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u36	Mr Sjoerdsma is now saying that if an arms race is about to take place because Russia has already illegally planted these missiles, and it is about to launch rockets and therefore an arms race on the Russian side, we, if it is about D66, are going to lose that arms race in advance. We won't respond. Aren't we extremely naive? Should we not be able to protect ourselves precisely because of the safety of the Netherlands, the safety of the Dutch?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u37	Mr. Chairman. I think, of course, that we should protect ourselves. And it's actually decadent that you can't. It is decadent that European Member States cannot protect themselves from a potential threat, for example from Russia. That is also why, I would say to Mr Koopmans, my group is in favour of a European army, for example, in order to ensure that European Member States can protect their own territory, their own people. Crucial, crucial to be for that, to take steps on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u38	Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u39	Madam President. I'm really getting an answer and something new is being introduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u40	No, no, I'm going to see Mrs. Karabulut anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u41	I do not think it would be wise to follow Mr Koopmans and give Putin and Trump an even bigger red button with new, modern nuclear weapons.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u42	Why do you have to call Mr Koopmans?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u43	Because I enjoy his contribution, Chairman, for that reason. I think his contribution to the debate is very valuable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u44	Do I need to get out of here, Madam President, or not? 'Cause, of course, you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u45	Please continue, because Mr. Koopmans immediately feels called to return to the discussion with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u46	I may be allowed later, so I invite Mr Koopmans to interrupt me many times.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u47	May I have a cup of tea in the meantime?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u48	Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u49	Mr. Chairman. Contrary to what Mrs Karabulut just said to you and Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Sjoerdsma is not arguing for extra red buttons here, but Mr Sjoerdsma is arguing for a red button in Brussels.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u50	But now it goes again...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u51	I am trying to bring it back together, but Mr Sjoerdsma says in reply to me: no, we must lose that arms race 1. and 2. we must give Brussels an atomic button.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u52	Are you going to...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u53	I have to respond to that, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u54	No, Mrs. Karabulut first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u55	We'll remember this for a while, but we'll have to park this answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u56	Mrs. Karabulut. You just came in and it's all going wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u57	Yeah, it went very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u58	Do you think that's me? I do not think a little debate can hurt, especially on such an important subject. I would like to introduce a third option, which is to avoid the whole arms race. My question to Mr Sjoerdsma is: is Mr Sjoerdsma, does D66 still support the motion not to give the JSF a new nuclear weapon task and to send out those American nuclear weapons Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u59	Yeah, we need to get those American nuclear weapons out of the Netherlands as soon as possible. The cabinet agrees with that, by the way. The cabinet prefers to expel all nuclear weapons from all over Europe. My group also believes that this is important, as a serious first step, also because most nuclear weapons in this world are in Europe. At the same time... I hope Mrs Karabulut shares this with me, she was not there when I spoke to Mr Ploumen about this. I therefore hope that she agrees with me that the context has changed slightly since that motion. Then I'm not just talking about North Korea and Iran. I am talking in particular about Russia, the development of a weapon that violates the INF Treaty, the way in which Russia has dealt with a number of other treaties, the way in which Russia is now threatening an arms race. I hope Mrs Karabulut does not want to close her eyes to that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u60	Is this the way, namely by awakening the new cold war and closing the eyes to the dangers posed by the red button in Trump's hands, for D66 to say that they have caved in to Mr Blok, who apparently goes back 40 years in time and for new nuclear weapons and modernise them? I would be very sorry to hear that, and I do not think that this can count on much support from your constituents.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u61	Let me take the answer to Mr Koopmans, who spoke of a red button; Mrs Karabulut spoke of a new cold war. What I have just said is that part of my speech I think she missed is that we must do everything we can to prevent this INF treaty from disappearing. To prevent us from entering an arms race as we now see it at risk...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u62	That's what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u63	Yes, but I would prevent Mrs Karabulut from having to look at the Acts, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u64	No, Mrs. Karabulut is following everything!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u65	That's what we're all trying to do. That's important. The second important thing, I would also say to Mrs Karabulut, is that if I look at what this cabinet is doing now, and let me compare this with what the previous cabinet did before, it is that this cabinet is going to do more about nuclear disarmament. I am not just talking about the quest for a nuclear-free Europe. Then I'm not just talking about the moment of modernisation. What is crucial is that these weapons can actually be removed from this continent. But I am also talking, for example, about the commitment that will take place in the UN for a Brundtland Commission. That's profit. I am afraid, however, that we may have to do this general consultation in a short form.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u66	Yeah, that's what I'm afraid of. Thank you, Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u67	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u68	I call Mr Koopmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u69	Mr. Chairman. "I have become death, the destroyer of worlds." This is a quote from the ancient Hindus text Bhagavad Gita, but it was also the thoughts of Professor Oppenheimer, the author of the atomic bomb at the first explosion in 1945. The association has now become very well known, almost a cliché, just like the references in the nuclear weapons debates.I haven't heard it yet after Dr. Strangelove and his "How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb." We must be careful that, when it comes to the horror of weapons of mass destruction, we do not fall into too easy images that, in their simplicity, embodies the horrific cruelty and existential danger of such weapons in our daily reality. Although this can be soothing for some, it means that some people think too lightly about violating arms control treaties, such as Russia now, or that they feel safe and flee in naive utopias about unilateral disarmament. We just can't afford that. Nuclear weapons aren't funny; they're horrible. As long as others have them, we have to protect ourselves from those weapons. Therefore, the termination of the INF Convention is a very bad thing for our security. It's bringing a new arms race closer. Let us be clear: this is Russia's fault. That country has illegally banned weapons and, despite repeated calls, refused to withdraw them. It is therefore understandable that the United States wanted to terminate the treaty, but it would have been much better to work within the treaty framework first on Russia's compliance and then on enlargement with other countries and also on enlargement with other types of weapons. This is also in Russia's interest, which may be threatened by Chinese missiles and missiles from other countries which are not covered by the INF Convention. That is a concern that we share in the West too. So there is not only a need, but in the long term there is also an opportunity to involve others in such a treaty and to include more types of weapons. Unfortunately, there are no reliable partners for this at the moment. So good luck in the short term is just not in it. As long as others have nuclear weapons, NATO must protect us from them. The VVD also recognises that there is a nuclear arms task for the Netherlands and that Europe must take as much responsibility for its own security as possible within NATO. If we disarm one-sidedly, we give up our own security for a brilliant but naive utopia. The recently published AIV opinion, which we will discuss, supports this view. The VVD subscribes to this. The VVD also wants the government to work for the control of new potential weapons of mass destruction which, unlike nuclear weapons, are much cheaper and much easier to build through new technological developments and can therefore also be developed by many more other parties. I ask the Minister about the letter he has announced on control and defence against drones and killer robots. And I ask him whether the cabinet would like to work with similar countries to be a practical and realistic driver of a treaty as broad and deep as possible to control the production, placement, dissemination and deployment of new potential weapons of mass destruction. Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, we cannot put atomic weapons back in the box. Let us continue to focus on achieving arms control as much as possible. But now that we know that a whole new generation of weapons of mass destruction is being developed, we must prevent us, just as once Professor Oppenheimer, from realizing afterwards what death means we have created, because then it is already too late. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u70	If I listen carefully to Mr Koopmans, he says about the withdrawal of the INF Treaty: it is Russia's fault, but it is not nice that America has also cancelled it, because it would be much better to talk about its violations in the context of that treaty. That seems to me to be a very sensible approach. I said in my first term: perhaps we could ask the Minister to commit himself to suspending or postponing that six-month period. That term is now a sort of automatism. We also know this from the Brexit; there it has been postponed regularly. Would that be something the VVD feels like?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u71	We need to be clear. It's a treaty between Russia and America. The Netherlands is no match. The VVD finds it extremely regrettable that the treaty is now being denounced by America, but that is understandable because the Russians have been systematically violating it for a long time. So it is understandable, but it would be much better if the Treaty were to be extended or if the ideas behind the Treaty were to be applied very widely, if other countries were to be added, if other weapons were to be placed. But we have to be realistic. I do not want to ask the Minister to say to Russia and America: will you do this for this treaty in which the Netherlands is not a party? We will hear what the Minister wants to do, but I would be very happy to do everything in my power to ensure that we are as safe as possible and that we are protected as much as possible within the functioning of the Treaty or with another treaty. If possible, the Convention could be extended.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u72	I'm not quite sure if I heard an answer to my question in this. Mr Koopmans says that the Netherlands is not a party to the treaty. That is, of course, the case, but fortunately that does not prevent the Minister from raising the issue of its termination in all possible ways, not in a positive way, but in order to prevent its termination. That's what he writes in his letter. My question is very specific. We have 100 days left. That's a little short to do whatever Mr Koopmans and I might want. Would it not be an idea to ask the Minister to ask the allies, but also Russia to postpone the final withdrawal of that treaty?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u73	That's the same question you just asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u74	Perhaps Mr Koopmans can now give another answer or even an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u75	I'll answer the same question again. Mr Van Ojik himself asked the Minister this question. It is important to hear a response from the Minister. I do not think Mr Van Ojik should ask me this, but I would like to say something about it. Of course, it is in the Dutch interest that this treaty should continue to exist. It is very good that we have tried everything, at least that the Minister has tried, with the support of all of us, to keep the treaty. But we also need to be realistic. If after so much time and so many attempts we know that it is not going to work, then I do not want us to send the cabinet a message that does not exist. No, I'd like to give the cabinet a message that can be sent somewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u76	It was not possible because last year the VVD Minister supported NATO and the Americans for the withdrawal of the treaty by one-sided pointing to Russia. That is particularly unfortunate, but my question is about the new nuclear weapons under the JSF. You are very much in favour of this and you are therefore putting us in a position of insecurity. Is the VVD at least in favour of sharing information on the costs and planning of the modernisation of such dangerous nuclear weapons in Volkel in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u77	I am beginning to discover a pattern in Mrs Karabulut's questions and I would like to try to answer them in the same way. First she says a few things. In fact, she says it wasn't Russia's fault, it's America's fault that the treaty is cancelled. Then I say to Mrs Karabulut: that is really not right. Russia has violated this treaty. That's very clear. The Netherlands and the United States and a lot of other countries have systematically appealed to Russia. But Russia continued to violate the treaty. I think it is then Russia's fault that the treaty loses its effect. And I find it very strange that Mrs Karabulut is trying to give the impression that it is the fault of the West. I think that's really, really bad. She then started, in the second part of her interruption, on the core task of the JSF. In doing so, she creates all questions, which is not necessary at all, because the situation is extremely clear. We must protect ourselves in the Netherlands. The Netherlands has a task in NATO. We are very happy to be protected by NATO's atomic umbrella, otherwise we would be defenceless. So we have a responsibility and part of it is that we must also contribute to the nuclear security that NATO offers us. Then it is very good that we do so through F-16s, through the JSF or in any way. After all, we have a responsibility and we must fulfil our obligations. We must keep the Netherlands and the Dutch safe.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u78	Mrs Karabulut, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u79	I notice that the VVD always has difficulty with the facts in the nuclear debate or when it comes to an important treaty such as the INF Treaty. The Americans accused the Russians and the Russians accused them back. It is a fact that the Americans subsequently denounced the treaty because they have a geopolitical interest in it. If Mr Koopmans does not know that, I find that rather naive for a foreign affairs spokesman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u80	Mr President, I do not think this kind of personal attack is so neat.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u81	Well, it wasn't personal, you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u82	It's very nice of you to say I'm naive, but you'll have to back that up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u83	The VVD always says it is for a realistic foreign policy. I think this is not so realistic, but naive.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u84	What is naive and what is realistic?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u85	I think you've...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u86	Well, I think this reaction was enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u87	I did not receive an answer from Mr Koopmans to my follow-up question. But maybe the answer is just no. Perhaps Mr Koopmans is afraid to tell the Dutch people that. My follow-up question was: can we know what these American nuclear weapons cost in the Netherlands and when they will be modernised? In my view, that makes us more unsafe. Moreover, the people in the region need to know when these things are being modernised, what the plans are and what it will cost us all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u88	Mr. Koopmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u89	Mr President, let me turn it around. On the last part of Mrs Karabulut's question, I can say that the Netherlands has a role to play in nuclear security within the framework of NATO. We are completing this task through the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Defence, and the budgets of these two ministries are public. Mrs Karabulut also votes on this every year, so I would refer her to those budgets. However, I think the first part of her question was the more important part. In the first part, she talked about naivety and realism. Let me say two things about that. Firstly, what is naive and what is realistic? A treaty is systematically violated by Russia. Weapons are being created illegally. Weapons are being placed by Russia aimed at Europe. And despite repeated clues and questions, those weapons will not be removed. Then what is naive and what is realistic? Mrs Karabulut says, well, the one who gets mad about that is naive. I'm saying whoever's threatening us doesn't understand. Mrs Karabulut says you can't say anything about it and you can't cancel the treaty. She's naive. It is realistic to react then.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u90	I want to finish this, but Mrs Karabulut wants to correct something. Then I will go to Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u91	A personal fact, Mr. Chairman. I did not say that the Americans or anyone else were naive, but I called the VVD attitude and the VVD ideas on this subject naive.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u92	Yes, I wanted to come back to that, because I promised you two things and I was only at the first. It's a threat to us from the Russians. Then, of course, it is extremely naive to say: we must not follow that up and we must not respond to that. It is then realistic to defend yourself and it is naive to wave away those violations of Russia. It is naive to blame the West if it responds to that. That's naive! And it's realistic to stand up for our safety. It's realistic to protect ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u93	No, no, Mrs Karabulut, I am no longer giving you the floor. You've made your point. I'm going to see Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u94	On the subject of modernisation, I found that part of Mrs Karabulut's question interesting. Does the VVD think that in this House, in this House of Representatives, a thorough debate can and should be held on the modernisation of American nuclear weapons on Dutch soil, on numbers, on capacity and on what that modernisation means, on costs, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u95	A short response, because it is a specific question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u96	Yeah, but we're having a debate on that, aren't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u97	No. And then indeed the second question, because we can only have part of this debate because we, as representatives of the people, do not have all the information. We don't know where. We don't know how much. We do not know what the modernisation will involve in the Dutch case and what risks it would entail for the local population. My question to Mr Koopmans is whether he would like to fight with some of us for the public information that would allow us to conduct that debate thoroughly and properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u98	A brief answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u99	A realistic threat also has some uncertainty in it. That is necessary. You don't want to tell your enemy exactly which weapons you have ready where in any way, how to operate them, how to replace them now, and what might be out of the running. To have a realistic threat, you want to have a real threat. That's why your enemy doesn't need to know everything. If that means that some things are not on the streets, then the VVD is certainly willing to pay that price for our safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u100	Just so we're clear, that's obviously not on the street. It's about this room. It is about this house, but I note that the VVD does not want to know it, does not want to take that information and does not want to take a decision on it on the basis of that information. I'd like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u101	That's not right. The VVD considers it extremely important that we do everything and also know as much as possible what we can do to keep us safe. But that also means that you have to be realistic and say: some things we are not going to discuss in public, because then our enemies will find out. We must have a task to enjoy transparency but also to be able to keep a secret so that we can pose a real threat to an enemy who wants to do bad things to us. That's realism.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u102	A quick question. Our neighbours, the Belgians, think very differently, because that is where the American nuclear weapons lie in Kleine-Brogel. By the way, the Belgians are opposed to this by a majority. So what would be our concern to follow that example of the Belgians?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u103	The question is whether you will do better if you have that Belgian defence and that Belgian transparency instead of the Dutch. I think it is very important that we have a certain degree of mystery to our enemies, so that they do not know exactly what backlash they can expect from us. I think that's very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u104	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr De Roon on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u105	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Military experts from the American RAND Corporation mimic war situations every year, wars between the great powers of Russia, China and the United States. What stands out is that almost always the blue coloured batch loses. Blue is usually chopped in the pan. Blue stands for the United States. In these simulations, the United States is being cut apart. It's the long-range rockets that kill our ally in the different scenarios; rockets like the Chinese DF-26D, a ground-bound ballistic missile with a range of 2,600 miles. To make it clear: that is about the distance Tehran-Amsterdam. That's pretty problematic, because what good is a Joint Strike Fighter if the airbase on which it stands is wiped off the map by such a rocket? Mr. Chairman. I say this in order to create some context in the probable demise of the date of the INF Convention. In addition, I would also like to know from the Minister whether the American withdrawal of the INF Treaty is not only justified, as the Cabinet has already stated, but is also necessary from a strategic point of view for the United States, and therefore for NATO. I am referring to China, which, while Russia is in the process of violating the treaty, has been building its missile arsenal for 30 years. 95% of Chinese missiles have a range that would be banned under the INF Convention, but China is not bound by that Convention, as we know. It is therefore logical that the United States should want to oppose a similar arsenal. The Russians have already done so with the introduction of their missiles banned under the INF Convention. Mr. Chairman. I come specifically to the Russian violation of the INF Treaty, which started this discussion in the Chamber. Moreover, the Netherlands has long been within the reach of Russian missiles not covered by the INF Convention. That is why, in the eyes of my group, there is no reason to panic suddenly, as the left-wing parties are simulating here. What is particularly important is the intention. At the moment, the PVV sees no intention at all in Russia to attack our country with missiles. Does that mean we have to sit still? No, of course not. We must keep a close eye on the rapid developments in the missile and nuclear fields, and respond to them in case wrong intentions come into play at a later stage. Not only Russia and China, but also other players, pose a potential danger in this respect and are committed to the development of long-range missiles, whether or not with a nuclear charge and ground-bound. As an example, the country of Iran is simply developing such missiles. Better, the US and the other NATO countries ensure that our offensive and defensive capabilities in relation to this branch of sport are in order. That must be the priority. If the cabinet wants to do anything under the law, it would be better to ask for a new treaty from the sidelines, including countries such as China. An alternative is a treaty banning the presence of such missiles in Europe up to the Siberia border. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u106	Thank you, Mr. De Roon. I now give the floor to Mrs Ploumen on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u107	Thank you, Mr President. "A world without nuclear weapons is the only rational choice, because the alternative is unthinkable. The story of nuclear weapons will have an end and it is up to us what that end will be. Will it be the end of nuclear weapons or is it the end of us?" Beatrice Fihn said so when she received the Nobel Peace Prize in 2017 on behalf of the International Campaign for the Elimination of Nuclear Weapons. And she's right: the rational choice is the realistic choice. Many believe that nuclear weapons should leave the world, but amazingly, there are very few who are doing so. The Labour Party expects an active Dutch commitment from the cabinet to a nuclear-free world. The cabinet speaks and writes fine words, but places everything within the framework of friendly agreements and thus undermines its own intentions. With regard to the termination of the INF Convention, too, the cabinet has two faces. On the one hand, Minister Blok writes that the INF Treaty must be prevented from being denounced, but on the other hand, our Prime Minister Rutte was the very first, real cock-the-front, to support President Trump, who denounced the INF Treaty. What is it now, so I ask the Minister. How is the Netherlands going to ensure that there is a return from the ruinous path of ending that treaty? Does it agree with Mr Van Ojik's suggestion that the period of notice should be extended? For we are not in the first 100 days, which carry some kind of hope in them, but in the last 100 days, which carry fear within them. Mr. Chairman. The Labour Party would like the cabinet to commit itself to an INF Treaty 2.0, an extension of the Treaty. I find Mr Koopmans to my, and I am sure to his, surprise at my side. Would it be possible to engage China, a major player, in that treaty? Will the Minister indicate how the Netherlands would like to do so and how it could do so, together, of course, with similar partners? In what way will the Netherlands continue to engage in a strategic dialogue with Russia and with the US, which is of course also important in order to achieve what you might call "multilateralisation, expansion with more players" of that INF treaty? Mr. Chairman. There is a real risk that there will be a domino effect and that the non-proliferation treaty will also be put under pressure after the INF Treaty. This makes the consultation which the Labour Party would like to see all the more urgent. We would like the Netherlands to take the initiative. In 2016, we were the only NATO member to participate in the negotiations on The Nuclear Ban Treaty. This creates opportunities, creates obligations and creates confidence in others. How will this minister make use of the confidence that the Netherlands has been able to build in these negotiations? Mr. Chairman. I would like to ask the Minister that, and I look forward to his answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u108	Thank you, Mrs Ploumen. I now give the floor to Mr Van Helvert on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u109	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The INF Treaty is the symbol of the decreasing tensions between the Soviet Union and the US at the time. That cornerstone has now been removed, because Russia is developing missiles with a greater range than 500 kilometres and our services, the STUD, have said very clearly: Russia is violating that treaty. Of course we also see the shifts in the world order. We also see China coming up. We can also imagine that both the United States and Russia are very concerned about the increasing number of missiles produced by China. Those missiles, if they were in the INF Convention, would be banned. But what is true, and I see a number of parties ignoring it, is that Russia is the party that violates the Treaty. The fact that you're worried about something like that doesn't mean you can just break a treaty. I hear Mr De Roon say: it is about intent; Russia has no intention at all at the moment to bomb us. No, that's what needed to be added! It is not a question of the intention not being there now, but of the fact that we had a treaty in which we tried to encourage each other to reduce the number of weapons. There is no such agreement anymore, and I think that is a step backwards and a deterioration in our security. Madam President. In the debate on 20 February, I asked the Minister if he could comment on the 64 SSC-8 rockets produced in Russia. That was in the Frankfurter Allgemeine. The Minister could not say anything about that at the time. Can he say if he is? Madam President. Of course, we must do everything we can to save the INF Convention or to ensure that there is a better replacement, preferably with China. How long do we have? What are the odds? There's 100 days left. I think that GroenLinks' suggestion is a very valuable one. What are the possibilities of extending that period, if necessary and, of course, if it provides an insight into a solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u110	Of course, it is quite possible that I assume that Russia does not comply with the INF Convention. At the same time, Russia says the same thing about the United States. An example of this is the missile shield installed in Eastern Europe. It could very well be "in conflict with" as well. So Mr Van Helvert acknowledges that both major powers, both Russia and the United States, benefit from the withdrawal of the treaty and that we, as Europeans, are screwed?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u111	Those are two different questions that are cleverly braided together, but I'm going to answer them separately. First of all, we have...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u112	Thanks for the compliment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u113	You're welcome. First of all, we have Mrs Karabulut's remark that Russia is violating the treaty. That's not something I make up, but that's what STUDY says, that's what our services say. I take it Mrs Karabulut doesn't question our STUDY. If that's the case, I'm very curious about that. If she doesn't say anything about it, she won't question it. In addition, you have Russia, which says that America is violating the treaty as well. Our services have not been able to observe that. I value what our services say more than what Russia says. If Mrs Karabulut attaches more importance to what Russia says than our STUDY says, then I think we have another problem in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u114	That was one of the questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u115	That was one of the questions. If we get a response to that, I can move on to the second one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u116	I am supposed to ask questions and Mr Van Helvert will answer them. It's gonna be the other way around, but I'm dying to answer the question. I am not concerned that I value Russia's opinion or Trump's opinion. Putin and Trump are both far from me and my political ideals. Apparently they're closer to yours; then it's Trump. It's the facts that matter to me. Of course, I assume that Russia is violating the treaty, but I cannot rule out the United States doing the same. Can you do that? Can you rule out that they may not comply with the treaty as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u117	On the basis of the information we have for this debate, these are the records of the Cabinet and the STUDY and our other services, I can nowhere see any indication that they are violating the Treaty. If you have any concrete indication that it is, you should say so. By asking the question, you're suggesting that the United States is violating it. If that's what you think, tell me. But don't put words in my mouth. I've received the information from our services. STUDY says very clearly "Russia is violating the treaty." Then I'll go straight to the second question. I also see that, in my view, I have begun my speech about this, so much so that both great powers are concerned about the shifting world order. Both great powers, both the United States and Russia, see China making rockets that would be banned under the INF Convention. I can imagine that they are both concerned about that; I have just said that. But even so, there is only one of which we have proof that he is violating the treaty, and I find that worrying.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u118	I don't know the evidence. It seems that Mr Van Helvert has faced them. I've heard that the cabinet believes they have independent evidence. I want to take that as my starting point, but I cannot, and I believe Mr Van Helvert, if he is very honest, rule out the possibility that the Treaty may also be violated on the American side. My proposal, and I would like a response from Mr Van Helvert, is that we should use the remaining 100 days to talk directly to the Russians but also to the Americans and also to exchange technicians so that this can be verified on both sides. How would you feel about such a diplomatic proposal? Not boom and bam and more weapons, but a diplomatic proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u119	I like diplomatic proposals; very good. Definitely rather diplomatic than war, but I don't know if the proposal from you is the right one. I suggest we use the last 100 days to get together to look to the future. If our services, together with the other services they work with all over the world, see indications that someone is violating a treaty, then STUDY will automatically come to the cabinet. The STUD is really not waiting for a question from the SP whether someone is violating a treaty. STIVD is working independently to monitor the safety of the Netherlands. But let us not play STUDY, let us do our job as politicians. As a Chamber, let us put our cabinet in a position to play as strong a role as possible to ensure that the INF Treaty is restored or even improved by involving the new superpower China.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u120	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u121	What should we not do, Madam President? That we're gonna mirror Russia, so we're gonna put similar missiles here. Or that we put even more nuclear weapons here in the Netherlands. We shouldn't do that. What are we supposed to do? We need to put in place a clear set of counter-measures. Think of the rocket defence, which the Netherlands is also very good at. What shouldn't we do? The CDA doesn't think we should disarm unilaterally. We shouldn't do that. What we do have to do is be a loyal ally in the alliance we have. It is precisely when it gets exciting that we should not run away from the agreements we have made, but we should keep to them, if only because it gives us a valued position to argue for nuclear disarmament and for Global Zero. But as long as the nuclear weapons are there, NATO also has that nuclear weapon task and we have the task of reducing nuclear weapons. Madam President. We need a new treaty with Russia, preferably with China. What role does the Minister see for the Netherlands? And what role does the Minister see for Europe? 'Cause we're right in between. We also see that moving the world order towards China must not only be the North Atlantic safe, but also a whole other part of the world. So what role is there specifically for Europe or for a small number of countries in Europe? Does the Minister see opportunities there? Could there perhaps be a new INF treaty? The chances of that success are rather small, but there is, of course, a chance of that. Suppose it becomes a possibility that Putin and Trump and Xi will come to something, because in the end we all know that we will benefit from a safer world, then perhaps that can lead to a beautiful celebration for the world instead of the depression we are in now. Does the Minister see the possibility of achieving the commitment in the election agreement to advocate a reduction in nuclear weapons?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u122	Before the party can begin, I have a few more questions for Mr Van Helvert. I have just asked Mr Sjoerdsma how I should now see the statement by the chairman of the D66 group that the F-35 should not have a nuclear weapon mission. How does Mr Van Helvert see that? What's his reaction to the coalition colleague's statement?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u123	I didn't find that very shocking in itself, because I think D66 always said that. Nor do I find it shocking that D66 says what situation we are in, because we have agreed with our coalition partners that we are a loyal NATO alliance. I think we're still in there. In that sense, I did not find that surprising. If all of a sudden you say 'I'm getting rid of the nuclear weapons task, so I'm suddenly not going to make an appointment I made in NATO; I'm going to cancel it unilaterally', then I think you should also point out to the Dutch citizen the dangers that this entails. We will lose the security of NATO that we enjoy now, because the Dutch army cannot defend the Netherlands on its own. I think that is also a reason why the Labour Party in previous Cabinets, with very sensible ministers in the cabinet, has not decided to stop this task either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u124	I really didn't see that last one coming. The position of the PvdA fraction is unchanged. As far as I can see, we reject that task. Can I ask Mr Van Helvert the following? He seems like a wise man. I have just argued that it is a sensible choice to really work on getting nuclear weapons out of the world, and he is actually defending nuclear weapons on Dutch territory, defending NATO's nuclear weapons mission and defending the nuclear weapons task of the F-35. Isn't he the naive one?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u125	First of all, on the position of the Labour Party. Mrs Ploumen says: we always reject the nuclear task. I know. That's what the Labour Party does. But we also see that the Labour Party, even if it is co-governing, has done so in the cabinet, and not even in such a difficult coalition of four parties, but in an easy coalition of two parties, in which you delivered half of the ministers, do not take the step to actually do so. Then she'll leave it to the wish, the ideal of not doing it. And now you're blaming D66 and now you're blaming me for not doing anything in a tough four-year-old coalition. You were sitting at the table yourself, but well, let's not make it personal: the Labour Party was sitting very wide at the table as one of the two partners, and you didn't do it. Because it's also very difficult. If you cancel the treaty, you'll lose the safety of the Netherlands. That is why the CDA is calling for an atomic-free nuclear-weapon-free world, as soon as possible, but on the basis of reciprocity, in the sense that if we reduce it, so does the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u126	You may respond because you are challenged, Mrs Ploumen. Then I'm going to see Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u127	Yes. I'll make it quick. The Labour Party was strongly in favour of negotiating in that agreement to get the nuclear weapons out of the world. The CDA doesn't. That's too bad. Does Mr Van Helvert now regret looking back on the opportunities it offered to bring the ideal of a nuclear-free world closer? Because in fact, he does nothing but confess the ideal with his mouth. In all his actions, he actually rejects it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u128	Well, "confession with the mouth"... I say that we want a nuclear-free world, but I also say that we do want to do so in return. The Labour Party doesn't say that at all. They only say: the nuclear weapons must be removed. And they do the opposite when they're in the cabinet. I'll be honest with you in advance, it's gonna be hard. That's what we say when we're in the opposition. You also say, "I don't want nuclear weapons," but if you're in the cabinet, you won't do anything. So let's not blame each other for that. It's a very difficult situation. Acknowledge that, too. You also know, from the experience of your life, but also as a party, that you cannot simply cancel your agreements with NATO. It can't be. Don't fool the people in the country either, because it can't be.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u129	If you'll just answer...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u130	We all don't want nuclear weapons. Neither do you, Madam President. If we could reach that with a snap in our fingers, they'd be long gone. But it's not that simple.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u131	No. But if you answer without constantly mentioning the PvdA, then I do not have to give Mrs Ploumen the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u132	But I think that is the debate. Mrs Ploumen says to me: you say one thing and you do the other. No, I tell you what I do all the time and I do what I say, but I do notice that the Labour Party always says that it wants the nuclear weapons gone...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u133	Now you're gonna say it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u134	...but they never do it when they're at the wheel.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u135	You're saying it again!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u136	Oh, sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u137	Yes, Mr Van Helvert says a lot and does little. So again my question: why does the CDA not support the Labour Party in its efforts to negotiate that treaty to get the nuclear weapons out of the world? Wouldn't it be nice if he made an effort to do that, now that he's part of what I hear is a very complicated coalition?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u138	A coalition is always exciting, but I certainly want to work for it. We've done a few other things. We did say about the modernisation of these weapons: "Is that the right thing to do? Is that the right thing to do? Do we have to spend the money on that now?" We have made an effort to this end. My predecessor in this spokesperson, Mr Knops, has worked hard to achieve this. But I might like to add something else. Actually, that's already going a bit towards the general discussion, but I'd like to light up a little bit of the veil. When it comes to the nuclear weapons that we have here, we might at first have a look... That is, if we have them lying down, because of course we do not know if we have nuclear weapons in this country. But what if they're here? If we want to reduce that number, shouldn't we first know if we have them at all? I also understand that Mr Koopmans of the VVD says that there must also be a bit of mystery around it for the enemy. But let us be realistic: I think the opponent knows whether there are nuclear weapons or not. On Google Maps you can see the part that's blushed, where you can't look, so as for that...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u139	You're making it more and more exciting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u140	But you could look at that. 'Cause how do we see it when those weapons are modernised when they're there? Then I imagine that we don't know if they're there, but suppose they're lying there... that in the middle of the night big trucks come sneaking around when they're lying there... because we don't know if they're lying there... and then those weapons are being loaded into those big trucks... and those big trucks like everybody sleeps... are being driven to Schiphol, or to Valkenburg, to make it even more exciting... and then they're being secretly flown back to the United States.... to get whacked up there.... and then when they're done again, very secretly in the middle of the night, lands on Valkenburg..... and then they're being brought back to the place where they lie......
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u141	That airport hasn't existed for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u142	I don't think you can do that secretly. That is why you could say: is it an idea for the cabinet to consult with NATO partners, in accordance with Belgium and Germany, to see if we can achieve some transparency in this respect? That's a start.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u143	Can we then count on the support of the CDA if we table such a proposal in a moment's time? It's nice to hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u144	That question has still not been answered. Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u145	If there's such a motion, I'd like to file it myself. I would also like to present it in the light of the general consultation I have requested. I gave you an advance on that. So if you take away this idea now, you will not get that support, because I want to debate it with the Chamber first in a general discussion. That is what I have just announced for this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u146	Good. And Valkenburg as an airport no longer exists.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u147	But secretly, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u148	Sneaky, I hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u149	We still have Valkenburg in Limburg, but I don't think it has an airport.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u150	Not yet. But there won't be.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u151	Sneaky, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u152	In any case, this debate on transparency may bring some progress. What I wanted to ask... the CDA...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u153	Mr Van Helvert.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u154	To Mr Van Helvert, yes. I would like to ask Mr Van Helvert. In fact, his theory, which is widely shared here in the Chamber, comes down to this: we have a nuclear weapon or, to be precise, a nuclear weapon task to bring that ideal of a nuclear-free world closer. That's actually our doctrine, you might say. If anyone who follows doctrine is a bit like that, I'm afraid we won't make any progress. Mr Van Helvert agrees with me, doesn't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u155	If that doesn't work out, then it doesn't, no. My goal is: if we have that renewed agreement, with China, let's do it. GroenLinks also understands, especially in view of Mr Van Ojik's own CV: if China makes missiles that are not allowed under the INF Treaty, then the other two superpowers, who had that INF Treaty, will become very nervous. They then think: "Of course we shouldn't have this. If the two of us are a bit tied together, shoot one of us up outside with those rockets." So not with that. But if it succeeds, I realize that it is unlikely - to come to a solution together with the great powers, then it can actually move forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u156	But it should still be possible to also like... We all see something in the reasoning that China is actually part of it. But China itself feels very differently, as the Minister has explained to us before. China is not prepared to participate at all. So it could just be that it doesn't work out in the near future. Then we will have to come out of that paradox, as I called it, or clamp it or whatever you want to call it, from saying: yes, but we all need that nuclear weapon task, otherwise we will never get to a nuclear-free world. That is a doctrine which has proved not to lead very much to a safe world, I say very carefully, because it is only becoming more complicated and unsafe.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u157	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u158	My question is this. Would it not be the case that, even if China does not participate, we should try to do so under a possible extended INF Convention or an extended period of notice, I have heard that you are also in favour of this...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u159	Clear, Mr. Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u160	...to see if we can actually take steps that might bring that safe world closer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u161	Mr Van Helvert. A brief answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u162	What we can do, we definitely have to do. An example of such a step is that you look at transparency. I think that there are a number of other things in the letter from the ministers that the cabinet has also been actively working on, which can do so. I agree with you that we have not yet turned in any weapons. That's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u163	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u164	And just a moment more about the motion on which Mrs Ploumen addressed me. Of course, it's not entirely new. Mr Knops, my predecessor, has once tabled a similar motion. Then Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Servaes of your party, Mrs Ploumen, signed that motion along with Mr Van Bommel of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u165	This immediately creates a new perspective for cooperation with Mrs Ploumen. Thank you. Finally, Mrs Karabulut on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u166	Mr. Chairman. Stanislav Petrov, lieutenant colonel in the Soviet forces air defence unit in Moscow, saw on Monday 26 September 1983 on the radar that the United States had launched five nuclear missiles towards the Soviet Union. If Petrov had done what was prescribed by the military logic of that time that night, we would not have been here today. But instead of reporting an American nuclear attack requiring massive nuclear retribution, Petrov reported a system error to his superiors. That's how the counterattack stayed off. In retrospect, Petrov admitted he wasn't at all sure of his case. Fifty-fifty he called it. On this September night in 1983, the world crawled through the eye of the needle. It is my great fear, Mr President, that the withdrawal of the INF Convention, first by the United States and then by Russia, can lead to more of these kinds of predicaments. Therefore, all efforts must be made to save the medium-range nuclear missile ban treaty. But it is also necessary to work seriously at last on disarmament rather than returning to 'the nuclear jungle', as the Volkskrant last mentioned. In this context, I find it really scandalous that the cabinet goes back 40 years in time by embracing the American nuclear weapons in the Netherlands and modernising them to hang under the JSF. This contradicts the majority of the Chamber. Nor is it based on support in society. Mr. Chairman. I have the impression that this cabinet is lacking in seriousness in order to save the INF Treaty. All arrows are aimed at Russia. It also places all responsibility on Russia, because it would violate the treaty. It is quite possible that Russia is violating the treaty. On the other hand, however, there are Russian accusations about the American action that runs counter to the Treaty. There is hardly any serious consideration of this. Moreover, the United States initially denounced the treaty and not Russia. That should never have happened, but a condemnation from Europe and by this minister remained unfulfilled. In my view, there should have been much more counter-gasses here. I ask the Minister to respond to this, as my colleagues will.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u167	I'm going to come back to breaking the treaty. Mrs Karabulut says that it is quite possible that Russia has violated that. When STUDY says "Russia violates the treaty," the SP says "that's quite possible." I find that quite a lot when the STUDY states that someone is violating a treaty. For what reason is the SP questioning that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u168	I didn't see the evidence. In that sense, I am more cautious in embracing the evidence presented, as this could have far-reaching consequences. We know from the past that major wars have started with disastrous consequences on the basis of information that turned out to be wrong. But again, I'm assuming it's perfectly possible. I would like to suggest that we do not blindly focus on escalation, militarisation and further tensions with Russia, but that we work on de-escalation, disarmament and the rescue of this treaty in the interests of our security, in the interests of our continent and in the interests of all Europeans. That could be done by not throwing oil on the fire. The brakes should've been kicked before. We must now launch a diplomatic initiative and ask both the Russians and the United States for a table. We're not alone in this. Belgium and Germany are also very concerned about this. I'd like to talk to you about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u169	I'll come back to the caution about the sources. Mrs Karabulut says: I am careful when STUDY says that; I do not just believe that and want to see evidence first. You can find that. In view of what Mrs Karabulut asked me during her interruption of the Russian accusation that the US would violate the treaty, is my question what more important for the SP: an assessment of our STUDY or an accusation by Russia in this context? Or does this weigh just as heavily?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u170	It's the facts that matter to me. I think this is a bit weird, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u171	No, I don't think this is a weird question. I ask: what weighs heavier?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u172	No, I think it's an inappropriate question, too. I would like to see both sides and both claims examined. And I'm telling you again...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u173	So you weigh it the same weight?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u174	I would like to say once again that I firmly believe that Russia is violating the treaty. But I'm not going, like you, to rule out America from doing that. If we're gonna be able to rule that out, you're gonna have to verify this between us. That's our position.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u175	I can see a bit of profit anyway, because Mrs Karabulut has just said that she simply assumes that Russia is violating that treaty. Until a few minutes ago, it wasn't. Does Mrs Karabulut indeed recognise, on the basis of all available information, that Russia is violating that treaty? Does she therefore believe that this is credible? Does she recognise that this is why we have to act to keep ourselves safe?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u176	I repeat, I assume that it is quite possible and that Russia is violating the Treaty. At the same time, however, I am also looking very seriously at the Russian accusations in the direction of the United States. Let me explain again why.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u177	Maybe we should go through with this first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u178	No, then let me finish my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u179	Now there's another step back.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u180	No, Mr. Koopmans. You'll have the floor in a minute. Mrs. Karabulut will finish her answer first and I'll go to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u181	I refuse to look at the world through Mr Koopmans' straw. The United States, but also Russia, are great powers. They both have an interest in it and both have plans to modernise their nuclear arsenal in order to compete with other great powers, because they want to be the largest military ones. That is at the expense of our safety. That is why I think it is very stupid that we let that happen. That feels very unsafe to me. That is why I propose a new diplomatic initiative to save the treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u182	I note that Mrs Karabulut is taking a few steps backwards. Now she says she's assuming it's possible for Russia to violate it. The conclusion is that, on the basis of all the information that the Netherlands may have, we have been able to independently assess that Russia is violating the treaty and has built illegal missiles that are a threat to the Netherlands. Mrs Karabulut then says that the blame for the withdrawal of the treaty lies with the United States and that the Netherlands should not do anything about it. In my view, this is a shameful matter for the safety of the Netherlands. So we shouldn't be reacting. So we should take Russian lies as seriously as the information from our security services. I find that really shameful and, let me use the word again, naive.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u183	What I find shameful is that Mr Koopmans, the VVD, is apparently so blinded by a new cold war rhetoric and so eager to seek confrontation and perhaps a war with Russia that he ignores the facts. I'll outline the facts here. I note that in other debates, you accuse all parties of fact-free politics and that you often ignore the facts in this debate. Why? One, I say that it could be very well done, and I repeat once again that Russia is violating the Treaty. I didn't see the facts; apparently you did. Two, I would very much like to see Russian accusations investigated. That's how the treaty works. And three, the last fact: the United States, unfortunately, Mr Koopmans, I can't help but denounce the treaty first. Putin has received this with open arms, because now he can continue. That is the security policy of the VVD, which subsequently wants to modernise American nuclear weapons and take them back to the Netherlands. That's what I call naive.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u184	Then Mr Koopmans is going to say something about that, I am afraid.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u185	Maybe you can be happy about it, too, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u186	It depends.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u187	What Mrs Karabulut is saying here is that, in her view, the facts of the Dutch intelligence services are as valuable as those of Russia. Russian accusations, propaganda and lies are set out as facts and on that basis it intends to pursue the security policy of the Netherlands. Well, then I am very glad that security policy is not in the hands of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u188	Again, those were not my words. Mr Koopmans may review the Acts. I am perplexed by the populist, fact-free policy that Mr Koopmans is promoting here. Apparently, or maybe that has something to do with you being so fond of armament and militarization and wanting your Cold War so badly. I do not know what interest you have in this, but I am in favour of a completely different policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u189	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u190	Mr. Chairman. Now what? Is the INF treaty still to be saved? Many people are pessimistic about this, and I understand that very well. See the attitude of the VVD, but also that of the hawks in Washington and the hardliners in Moscow, who, for all kinds of reasons, mostly geopolitics, want to get rid of the treaty. But this pessimism must not lead to passivity. Everything must be done to save this treaty, which has proved crucial for the security of Europe and of us. The Belgian Minister for Foreign Affairs, Didier Reynders, initiated direct talks with Russia. Can the Minister respond to this? Would it be possible to organise a summit on European security with both the Americans and the Russians at the table before 2 August, when the deadline for the withdrawal of the treaty is formally completed? Will the Minister make an effort to promote such a diplomatic initiative? In an earlier debate, two motions were adopted by me on the INF Convention. One motion states that in Europe there is no place for INF nuclear weapons and the other calls on the government in NATO Defence Council to decide whether or not to retain the INF Convention in an adapted form. I ask the Minister to tell us what is going on with the implementation of these motions and what he has done in recent months to save the treaty. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u191	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'm looking at the minister. We need a five-minute suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u192	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u193	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As all spokesmen rightly pointed out, the termination of the INF Convention after Russia's violation of it is a very serious event. It is logical that we should now talk about this in detail. A number of spokesmen also commented on the letter sent by the cabinet on Friday about the AIV report. I understand that the Chamber would like to have a separate debate on this. I'm like laundry in your hands. If you want to treat it now, I'll do it now. If you want to treat it another time, we'll do it another time. In any case, I will address the questions relating to the INF Convention.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u194	Just so I'm clear. What exactly is the procedural question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u195	The letter on the INF Convention is on the agenda. In addition, the cabinet sent a letter on Friday about the AIV report on the Dutch nuclear weapon task. A number of spokesmen commented on this. I would like to answer those questions, but I have the impression that there will also be a separate debate on them. Hence my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u196	That's a fair question. As stated in the Rules of Procedure, everyone should stick to the subject of the debate. Otherwise, I'm gonna step in.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u197	That's what I wouldn't have brought on me. It was a practical question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u198	Before the sitting, I also asked, on behalf of Mr Van Ojik and Mr Sjoerdsma, the clerk of our committee to plan an AO on the AIV opinion on the nuclear weapons task. I asked for this to be forwarded to my fellow Members so that they could take this into account in their contributions. It is, of course, up to the Members themselves to make a small comment. I heard such comments here and there, but the major debate on the AIV report is still to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u199	We're not really going to turn this into a procedural meeting of the Foreign Affairs Commission. I know you guys. I propose that we simply talk about today's topic: the announcement that the US and Russia have announced that they will cancel the INF Convention. Period. I see you agree, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u200	Sure, but the AIV advice has everything to do with this. A few questions have been asked. The Minister could answer them briefly and briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u201	I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u202	He can, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u203	You have agreed to hold separate consultations on that other subject in committee. I would like to leave it at that. Today we are only talking about the INF Convention.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u204	Mr President, may I not say anything about it, either?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u205	You agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u206	Well, in principle always do. I wouldn't dare otherwise, but in this particular case... Look, I was the applicant for this debate and Mr Van Helvert made his request on my behalf. There is a great deal of coherence between the debate on the termination of the INF Convention and the letter we received from the Minister on Friday. I would like to ask the Minister to answer the questions raised by spokesmen about last Friday's letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u207	Well, I really want to keep this debate limited to the INF Convention. The other is simply discussed in a different context. That's what the minister's supposed to do. If the Minister answers, I know you're going to ask questions about that again. And then everything gets mixed up. Especially for foreign speakers, the whole world has to do with it, including inland. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u208	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In any case, preventing the deployment of nuclear weapons is a top priority for the cabinet. The purpose of this cabinet is and remains a world completely without nuclear weapons. I will go into more detail in a moment on the many steps we have taken in recent times and will continue to take in the coming period. I would also like to draw the House's attention to the recent IOB report, the inspection report, in which a policy evaluation was carried out of the commitment of the Department of Foreign Affairs to disarmament. The report outlines an image that shows that the Netherlands plays a leading role in this. In fact, that report says in so many words that this is happening in a world in which only a few countries actually pick up that role. However, this is also necessary in the much more complex world with increased threats, first and foremost on the part of the Russian Federation. But there are also threats from other, often new nuclear powers. That is why a full commitment is needed on the one hand to disarmament, nuclear disarmament, but on the other hand to the sufficiently strong position within the NATO alliance, in order to deter every threater. This combination is of great importance without prejudice. Against this background, it is indeed very worrying that we have actually had to observe Russia's infringement of the INF Treaty for years. It was under President Obama that that violation was raised. Although the treaty had not been formally denounced by Russia at that time, it was not actually enforced by that country because it not only developed the prohibited medium-range rockets, but also developed them. That treaty had, of course, already come to an end. That is all the more sad because this was a treaty that has made a huge contribution to security in Europe over the last 30 years. A whole type of missiles has been abolished and more than 3,000 rockets have actually been destroyed. This is an impressive achievement, thanks to the INF Convention. And again, that underlines how regrettable it is that the Russian Federation has not complied with it. That makes it inevitable, however unfortunate, that the American response was eventually, after a period of delay, to terminate the treaty as well. Indeed, we still have 100 days left. In the rest of my reply, I will first of all comment on what we are going to do in the remaining time and possibly afterwards. Then I will address the questions surrounding the position of the United States, the questions concerning the specific position of the Netherlands, the questions about the possibility of sanctions, verification possibilities and new weapons of mass destruction. But first, I will deal with the questions that have been asked about the question of what to do now. By far the majority of the questions asked are concerned with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u209	A brief question, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u210	What has the Minister done in the last four months to preserve the INF Convention?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u211	A brief answer from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u212	The answer to that question is simply in the pipeline, Mr President. I would like to answer that question, but I can imagine that all the other spokesmen will also step forward if I put Mrs Karabulut's questions on top of the pile.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u213	Mrs. Karabulut, the Minister has just begun. There's a certain order. All the questions that were asked in the first period should simply be answered. If your question is not answered, or if you would like to deal with another matter, you will have room for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u214	Because the Minister always varies in the way he answers and I thought it appropriate here if he looked back in his answer, I thought: I am asking that question. Anyway, if the minister has no choice but to finish the piles, I'm gonna sit down.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u215	Well, "finish piles." That sounds so disrespectful. They're good questions from all of you!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u216	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. I didn't mean it like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u217	Oh. That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u218	Mr. Chairman. Mr. Van Ojik was the first speaker. In any case, it seems to me to be purely a question of 'the INF Convention itself'. The questions often overlap with questions from others. I shall then follow the order in which the questioners spoke. Mr Van Ojik asked what commitment had been and will still be made. In recent times, we have repeatedly advocated the maintenance of the INF Convention both at NATO and bilateral level. That began with the plea for a postponement of the termination. It has been announced earlier by the US that there was a desire to withdraw. At that time, the Netherlands, with a number of other NATO countries, advocated for the first time a two-month delay. That delay has also been granted. I know that Mr Van Ojik wants to postpone again; I will come to that in a moment. But that delay of two months was precisely the intention at that time to give the Russian Federation another chance to take the right steps and come to the negotiating table. That was the first step. We then advocated in NATO the convening of the NATO-Russia Council to engage directly in dialogue with the Russian Federation. That's what happened. Recently at the NATO Council in Washington, I made that plea again with a number of other countries to ensure that we can have that consultation with Russia again in the remaining 100 days. I myself did so directly last February. Then I spoke to Russian Minister Lavrov and urged him to return to the obligations under the INF Convention. In the recent NATO-Defension ministerial, in line with one of the two motions referred to by Mrs Karabulut, Mr Bijleveld also stressed the importance of reviving the INF Treaty. In addition, the Netherlands is and will remain active in a large number of nuclear disarmament initiatives, such as the Nuclear Disruption Treaty. It would be very important to succeed in reaching a global agreement to end the development of nuclear fuel. There's a treaty for that. That has not yet been sufficiently ratified. The same applies to the nuclear-stop treaty, the test-stop treaty. That too would be of great value, but has not yet been sufficiently ratified. In addition, we commit ourselves to NPDI with a select but very mixed group of countries. This includes countries from Europe, Africa, Asia and America, both NATO Member States and non-NATO Member States. We are committed to verification mechanisms. That is, of course, very important in bringing back nuclear weapons. We are trying to reach agreements on risk management, for example transparency on the part of all nuclear states. In addition, we chaired the preparatory conference for the Non-Proliferation Treaty and will be vice-president of the verification conference in 2020. That non-proliferation treaty is currently one of the most important and effective weapons against nuclear proliferation. In addition, we are constantly seeking alliances with like-minded countries. For example, we have agreed with the Benelux countries to cooperate on our competence in the field of verification. We are acting together with a number of European countries in a renewed impetus for nuclear disarmament. I spoke about this recently in Berlin, at the invitation of Mr Maas. There will soon be a follow-up conference in Sweden. So we look up that position again and again as the Netherlands. Again, the IOB also outlines in its report that the Netherlands takes that leading role as one of the few in this way. Mr Van Ojik asked whether the European Union could also take a role to save that INF treaty. The European Union has expressed its opinion on the desirability of maintaining the Convention. The tricky thing about the European Union is that it is a mixture of NATO and non-NATO Member States, but I agree with Mr Van Ojik: we also use any platform that we can use to deliver this message. Then Mr Van Ojik was the first to ask, but after him Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Koopmans and Mrs Ploumen, for the option of involving China. That would indeed be very preferable. China is the third nuclear power in terms of the size of the arsenal and has itself a large arsenal of medium-range missiles. Because China itself is not a party to INF, it was also allowed for China, but it is, of course, perceived by other countries as a potential threat. China itself has so far always been very, very persistent when it comes to participating in nuclear disarmament treaties. But this also applies that it is the Dutch commitment and remains to include China. For example, we also do this in the partnership NPDI, so that we do so not only as the Netherlands NATO country, but also in that very broad alliance. This is typically a subject that I also discuss in my contacts with Minister Lavrov. Would it not be a good idea to go to INF 2, as Mr Sjoerdsma called it, with a broader relationship of nuclear powers? That would be ideal, but it requires a willingness to do so, and so far at least no positive response has been received from both the Russian Federation and China. Mr De Roon asked whether there was a strategic consideration towards the Chinese nuclear arsenal behind the withdrawal of the INF treaty. The direct cause was the long-term violation by the Russian Federation. But that does not go away, as I just explained, that it is very worthwhile to try to conclude a wider INF agreement, with China's involvement. But we prefer to do so after we have managed to keep the existing INF Convention up to date. Mrs Ploumen asked for the political capital that the Netherlands has, inter alia, by participating in the negotiations on a nuclear weapons ban treaty. As Mrs Ploumen knows, the Netherlands has finally voted against and has not been ratified at the moment. At least there are a number of countries that have ratified it, but not so much that it has entered into force. Nor do I believe that it makes sense to go down that route again. I do believe that it makes sense to take the lead role on all the playing fields I have just outlined. This role of the Netherlands is indeed seen; Mrs Ploumen is right. This is also confirmed independently. We want to continue on those routes. That is also my full commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u219	Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u220	On the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u221	I'll see if the minister's done with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u222	It's heading towards Mrs. Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u223	On the issue of Russia and China, there is little willingness from these two states to do anything. I understand that reality is not very promising, but what surprises me in general at INF is that it seems like we are just trying to talk to each other. The Minister says this to Mr Lavrov and to the Chinese, but they say no. As the European Union, we also have other means that we could possibly use. I ask this Minister where is the European initiative to put more pressure on it, more than just invitations to speak, because this is very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u224	Mr Sjoerdsma refers to the European Union, but the European Union is divided into rather than NATO partners. Apart from the fact that, unfortunately, it is quite a task to achieve unanimous positions in the European Union, this makes it even more complicated in this case. That is why the government has taken a different route, alongside that of the European Union, such as NPDI. As it is spread across several continents, it also has its own value. There are also the occasional coalitions, which I have just outlined and which are largely within the European Union, but in which we also involve Canada, for example, and bilateral contacts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u225	I also understand that the European Union is made up of NATO states, but the question is, of course,: is there a European Member State for which it would not be very important to preserve this INF Treaty? To be honest, I cannot imagine such a Member State. It seems to me to be a common European interest, an interest for our entire continent, including for non-EU states, such as Iceland, Norway and Switzerland. Looking at all the instruments that the European Union has: is it this minister's assessment that it is impossible to use those instruments of the European Union? Is it not possible to look at sanctions, economic pressure, political pressure, any kind of pressure that is conceivable to ensure that on 2 August we do not look at each other and say: hey, that INF treaty is no longer there?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u226	I should like to address the question of sanctions separately. On the specific question of whether there is more to be expected from the European Union in the field of INF than the statement that has now been made, my honest answer is: not at the moment. That doesn't mean that I think it's worth walking that route, but that's part of the fact that I'm now indicating how the force field lies there. Mrs Ploumen went...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u227	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u228	At this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u229	Yeah, at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u230	Yeah, short.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u231	The Minister also said: we must, of course, take advantage of every opportunity available. I think we all do. There is also something between this whole European Union as a unity and bilateral dialogue, namely politically at the level of Heads of Government, together with perhaps our Prime Minister, the French President and the German Chancellor. You can imagine all kinds of forms that may increase the pressure on the parties not to automatically terminate the INF Convention after 100 days. I would therefore like a specific answer from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u232	You can think of all kinds of combinations, but those combinations also think about how credible it is. Mr Van Ojik made a very neutral statement, as his input was a little bit: exert pressure on the parties. The role of the Russian Federation is quite different from that of the United States. These are ultimately the parties that have signed the Convention. At the moment, even in the constellation as you call it, there is no need, within the format of the European Union, to take further steps than those that have now been taken. The Heads of Government you mention are all NATO members; and NATO, as I have said, has always been on the agenda and will be on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u233	Is it simply not the case that from the outset, four or five months ago, the Minister had resigned to the Americans' decision to cancel the INF Convention?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u234	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u235	But at the beginning of December, I did not get the exact quote right now, you said: I support NATO, I support the Americans, a clear red line has been drawn; this is what we are presenting to the Russians and the Russians have to comply or it is ready. You can't deny that, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u236	Now you're putting it differently from just now. But you know history as well as I do. The United States has once again appealed to the Russian Federation for years to violate the INF Convention, which began under President Obama, because Russia is developing and preparing weapons which are not allowed under the INF Convention. As a result, the INF Convention does not work. That is why the United States has announced that we, one of the two signatory parties, intend to denounce the treaty. When the US announced this, the Dutch cabinet did not say: that's good, go ahead. Then, with a number of other NATO countries, we said: give the Russian Federation extra time to comply with the INF Treaty. That time has come, but unfortunately the Russian Federation has not used it. We then took all these steps, but I am now repeating myself in NATO and beyond in order to use the period to seek contact with Russia, both in NATO and bilaterally, in other places, to talk about nuclear disarmament. That is still the case, but that is a very different picture from what Mrs Karabulut started with, namely that we put our heads in the lap months ago and do nothing. That is also really contrary to the IOB report that you have received and in which you can really read. We are not sending them to you for nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u237	Then perhaps the Minister regrets, and dares not say so, his position in December. It was December 4th, to be exact. Then I hear the Minister say that he attaches great importance to maintaining the INF Convention. Then my question to him would be whether he is prepared to launch a diplomatic initiative, possibly with similar countries: with the United States and the Russians at the table to maintain this treaty in an extended form or not. Is he willing to do that, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u238	This question has already been put to you in your first term, a few times. I'm assuming the Minister will take that up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u239	Sure, yeah. I do not regret the cabinet's views in December; Mrs Karabulut started doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u240	Yes, but Mrs Karabulut also asked this question in her first term. You'll come back to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u241	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u242	Mr President, I would like to hear the answer now, because it is part of this interruption. I want to hear from the minister what he's gonna do next. He has made a mistake, and he has therefore supported the withdrawal of the INF Convention. Okay, he wants improvement now; he's doing great. Then my question is: is the Minister going to launch the diplomatic initiative, as I and other parties are asking him today?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u243	Mrs Karabulut starts interruptions every time with false, insinuating remarks. She says: the Minister has denounced the INF Convention and made a mistake. The Minister did not denounce the INF Convention. The Netherlands is not a party to the INF Convention. The United States has denounced the INF Convention and the Netherlands, together with a number of other countries, has allowed for an additional period of reflection. When the Russian Federation did not use it, we made a similar statement with all other NATO countries. But that is quite different from what Mrs Karabulut is telling us now, quite different.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u244	Yeah, but now the question is whether you're coming back...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u245	But Mrs Karabulut always starts with a long list of statements that go along with the truth, and that calls for a rebuttal, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u246	You did, but the question about the diplomatic initiative remains.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u247	Sure. I outlined this in response to Mr Van Ojik's question. A new NATO-Russia Council has been requested. The Netherlands is committed to a nuclear weapons test ban in the large number of international fora I mentioned, including NPDI. We're also working bilaterally. We form coalitions with various other European and non-European countries. We're gonna make contact bilaterally. But in order to achieve success, we need a positive response from the Russian Federation, and preferably from China and other nuclear weapons states. That positive response from the Russian Federation has so far not been received either in bilateral talks or in multilateral talks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u248	The Minister again outlines everything in the context of the NATO-Russia Council, but I believe that a European initiative, a European security summit in the remaining 100 days, is important. Is the Minister prepared to take such an initiative with the like-minded countries, as he now has the overview and insight into which countries that might be, with an open invitation to the Russians and the Americans? Then we'll see what that gets us. Is the Minister prepared to do so, for our safety's sake?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u249	As usual, I shall start again with the rejection of Mrs Karabulut's first sentence, which was this time: the Minister puts everything in the light of the NATO-Russia Council. That's really not right! I gave a whole series of initiatives, of which this was one. Well, at the end of it, Mrs Karabulut asks whether it is possible to launch a new initiative. I would like to refer to Minister Reynders, who also has this wish. Minister Reynders would like to, but Minister Reynders has not been able to bring parties together either. I'd like to. We are in close contact with the Russian Federation, but so far its parties have again been unwilling to take that step.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u250	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u251	Apparently, if it is not correct, the Minister corrects the fact that the Minister took an initiative at European level for a security stop and, possibly together with the Belgians, I understand, invited the Russians and the Americans. Then what was the answer? For what reasons is that rejected by the Russians and apparently embraced by the Americans? Can he give us an insight into that? Because that insight is lacking.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u252	Of course, it's not like you're sending an invitation to the Russians and the Americans, "you probably didn't even think about it at all, but it would be such a good idea if you'd come to our house and have coffee and agree." Minister Reynders didn't do that either. You will, of course, first talk to the parties involved about the question: what steps do you want to take and can you do to solve this problem? And again, the Russian Federation is the most important one here, because it started the violations years ago. If the answer to that is always no, then we keep pushing, but then it's very naive to think that you can send an invitation, so "come and have coffee, because then we'll fix it." I was just about to answer Mrs Ploumen's question about New START, but I see that she is now at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u253	The Minister has given us an idea of the efforts made by the Netherlands in all sorts of regions. I'm not gonna repeat that. The Minister just said that. I would also like to have a more precise picture of what the reactions of the interlocutors were. I understand very well that the Minister cannot quote word for word from those talks, but did the Russian Federation just say no and did the Americans just say yes? I ask this because, of course, I would like to look with the Minister for guidance to be able to take a next step, now that those last 100 days have arrived, which can bring about a new dynamic for the parties. When the deadline gets closer, everyone suddenly starts thinking again: oops, maybe we should try harder. My question is therefore: what points does the Minister see and how would he describe these reactions?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u254	The Russian Federation denies the violations. It also indicates that the US has taken a number of actions which would be contrary to the INF Convention, which we do not believe is the case. I shall end these actions in a moment when Mrs Karabulut's question is answered. But that's the stalemate we're in. On the Chinese side, there is no willingness to come to the table at all. But, again, that's no reason not to keep pushing, because there may be other times. The clock is ticking. That is the uncomfortable feeling that we have here, but that in essence must also be felt in other places. But right now, these are the reactions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u255	What if I asked the Minister the same question about the reactions and positions in the European Union? For I repeat it to others: it is about the security of Europe. Don't the French want to find a hook to start the conversation with the Russians? Or the Italians? Even better, because they are always on a fairly friendly basis. Has this been spoken to individual Member States by the Netherlands, to gather them so slowly and to get a group that can make a strong appeal?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u256	Sure. There have been bilateral talks with a large number of NATO partners and EU partners. That's where the feeling generally lives. The reference to Minister Reynders was relevant in that sense, because he also says in public, of course, that he would like to do so, but he also notes that no one is coming. So we are indeed looking with a number of countries, I mentioned the Benelux countries, Germany and Sweden; I also mentioned countries outside Europe as well. Moreover, in those like-minded countries too, there is the sense of reality that if the countries really concerned are not prepared to take a step, you cannot do an invitation to post, because then you will create a defeat, which will take you further away from home. I don't need to explain that to Mrs Ploumen, and you don't want to get into that situation. So you want inside rooms to have indications that such a meeting has a chance of success. That's what we're gonna keep looking for. But at the moment there are no indications.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u257	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u258	Mrs Ploumen was right to refer to the other very important treaty on nuclear weapons, the New START Treaty. This expires in February 2021, but if both the Russian and US Presidents agree, it can be renewed for another five years. The Dutch appeal to both parties is explicit in order to extend it. This treaty is incredibly important, for both countries themselves, but actually for all countries. They could all also be the victims of nuclear weapons, intended or unintentionally. So our full commitment remains to ensure that this treaty will be renewed for another five years, especially since we still have more time to do so. Mr Van Ojik and Mr Van Helvert asked whether there was any point in calling again for an extension of the deadline. The honest answer to that is: unfortunately not, given the history we have behind us. As the Chamber also knows, it has actually started long before the announcement of the withdrawal, with the observation that President Obama was still saying that the Russian Federation did not comply with the Treaty. In fact, there was already a time limit for Russia to return to its path. Then there was the two months extension that we were able to achieve before the announced termination. Now that these additional periods of time have already expired and unfortunately have not been successful, a new plea for extension does not lead to another outcome. Then I come back to the digged-up positions that I had just had to outline to Mrs Ploumen. Mr Van Helvert asked about the Dutch appreciation of the INF violations and also referred to a message in the Frankfurter Allgemeine. The Netherlands has been able to verify the infringement independently. That was indeed done by the STUDY. I know that a number of positions of Russian nuclear weapons have been mentioned in the press, including in Frankfurter Allgemeine. As Mr Van Helvert knows, we are also very reluctant to have the information we have on the weapons systems of others, because it also shows us what we do or do not know. So I too have read it with interest, but I must leave it at that in public. Mrs Karabulut asked me to respond to the Russian Federation's claim that the US is violating the INF Convention. The Russian Federation then mentions three points. She says the US retains grounded test missiles for missile defence testing, but that is explicitly allowed to both parties in the INF Convention. A second accusation by the Russian side is that the missile defence system in Romania and Poland would be a violation of the INF Convention, but that is not contrary to the INF Convention. We can just read the treaty on that. The third charge concerns the possession of drones. Both the Russian Federation and the US have drones. They were not available in 1987, so they are not mentioned in the INF Convention. So all three dots don't cut wood. I hope I have answered the questions about the INF Convention itself. Then I turn to the questions about the position of the US and the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u259	A brief question from Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u260	I would like to come back to the point of any attempt to postpone it again. The minister says quite decisively "that's no use," but honesty probably commands you to say: you never know for sure. You could say that it's a rather neutral request, with which you don't have to say all kinds of big things right away, examine or test them. You can just say that it would be a shame if we were to fall victim to our own treaty-built agreement to automatically terminate after six months. Is the Minister prepared, perhaps with some colleagues, to throw a ball at that point?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u261	I do think it is my job to give an assessment of what I hear in the discussions I have on this issue. I understand that Mr Van Ojik refers to the six-month period. That is logical, but we are both aware that it has actually been years before that in which Russia was already in default and in which Russia really developed and developed those missiles. It is not a paper issue: weapons are now in place that are forbidden. The treaty has already been violated. I can also say very loudly: the treaty was already dead. On paper it is still in force until August, but the weapons that were banned are now in place. So we know that there has been so much delay and that at the moment, as I have outlined, there is a harsh denial from the Russian side that has been violated at all. That combination of facts has already been postponed and there is currently no willingness to find a solution...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Then it falls into the category: you can make a call, but in a process like this it is harmful when a positive step is rejected in public. Then you'd rather test inside chambers what can or can't be done. You know in which routes and in which coalitions we do so rather than make calls in public that we can repeat here but aren't picked up. This therefore leads to a loss of credibility, which the Netherlands really still has in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u262	Maybe I should clear up a misunderstanding first. It doesn't have to be me in public. I'd like to leave it to the Minister to investigate the best way to do that. I would like to respond to one more point. He says that the treaty was actually violated for years before it was denounced. I do think that is correct, but at that time we still had that treaty itself to deal with these violations within the framework of that treaty. This is, of course, exactly what is likely to happen now if the six-month automatic deadline expires: we will have nothing in the line outlined by the Minister to talk to each other in this case about the violation of that treaty by the Russian Federation. It could therefore be in the interests of all parties to release that six-month automatic deadline. I referred not for nothing to the Brexit: there was also an automatic two-year period, but in the end everyone chose in a certain wisdom to let go of that term. It would be as nice as it could be under the INF Convention.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u263	Mr Van Ojik realizes that comparisons are risky, especially with the Brexit, but I am going to take him for a while. You can see in that Brexit extension discussion that it is said every time that, in this case, the British had to indicate that they wanted that extension and for which they were going to use that time. That second aspect would also make sense now, given the history we unfortunately already have with the INF Treaty. Because we are now in a situation of rude denial from the Russian side, we are not in a situation of prolonging and then looking at how we can come to a solution, but we would still face blunt denial in the event of an extension. That is why I do not think the option is real at the moment, however sad I think it is, because I would, of course, prefer that there was a possibility of doing so. Both Mr Van Ojik and Mrs Karabulut asked whether you could speak of US co-responsibility at the collapse of the INF Convention. I really don't think that's fair. There is very good control of what countries had to comply with. The U.S. doesn't have medium-range missiles. I have mentioned the three points raised by the Russian Federation. It is also easy to put it next to the INF Convention and see if it would be a violation. That's not true. So I don't think it's right to take a sort of "where two fights have two blames" position here. That's not true. I come to the Dutch position.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u264	A very short question, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u265	Does this mean that the Minister ignores all the serious criticism of scientists, including those who have learned for this purpose, and denies that both sides are accusing each other and that it is probably true that both sides have been engaged for years in activities that ultimately undermine the INF Convention? Does this mean that the Minister completely denies this and puts the blame entirely on the Russians? That would explain why there is no progress in the discussions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u266	I mentioned the three topics that the Russian Federation has publicly mentioned. If Mrs Karabulut has other examples, I am happy to have them. You can do that in writing. I'll get back to you on that. But I know from these three examples that at least Russia mentions them and that they are factually incorrect.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u267	A quick question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u268	A brief follow-up question. This wasn't my question. There are scientists who take the Russian criticism seriously on the missile shield in Eastern Europe, where you can also fire offensive missiles, and on many other things. They also point to the danger that, if you cancel the INF treaty, you will open Pandora's box, because then there will be even more modern, even more dangerous nuclear weapons. Does the Minister maintain that this whole situation is one-sidedly up to the Russians and that the Americans have no role in this in any way?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u269	I made an invitation to Mrs Karabulut. She referred to scientists who have other information. I indicated to you that I have three points to make. I disproved it. If there's any other information, I'd like to be willing. But I'm gonna have to have it. I'd like to get back to that. It can also be written. Then we can be more specific than in general terms when "maybe there is more" speak. I'd be happy to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u270	You can't provoke, but okay. I have not limited the number of interruptions, but I see that it is wise to do so, otherwise things will get completely out of hand. And that's what I'm telling you, Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u271	To me, too. I thought it was specifically about one party, but now it's the whole Chamber's move, I understand. I wanted to ask another question about the United States. Russia has committed violations, and now there is also evidence of this in its own right. I think it is best to accept this with some certainty and not to say that we should all investigate this and we should also examine the Russian claim completely, and then we should put it opposite. I'm still curious about the following. If Russia really wants to return to compliance, which is now unlikely, but what if it does happen? Are the US committed not to cancel the treaty? I think that is an important precondition. I would like to hear from the Minister whether he has heard that from the United States.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u272	I think you should make a legal and a moral cut here. If the Russian Federation were to say, "Unfortunately, we are not in a situation where it is returning to its path, then it is morally logical that the US should do the same. With regard to the legal area to break the current termination procedure in the meantime, I would like to check before I give an answer in my mind, because that is very much listening.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u273	And will you come back to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u274	I'll get back to you on that, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u275	For convenience, I would add one dimension: the political dimension. That is the will of the United States to go back to the treaty. I'm curious about that. I'm certainly curious if it's legally possible. I should hope so. Otherwise, you don't really need this notice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u276	That's what the Minister's gonna come back to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u277	Exactly. That's what the Minister's coming back to. Thank you, Madam President. But I am also curious about the Minister's political assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u278	That's what you asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u279	In NATO, as you know, the US is a prominent member of NATO, and we have always stressed the importance of bringing the INF Treaty back to life. Hence my moral judgment. But I'll verify the legal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u280	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u281	Mr Sjoerdsma asked: if it is indeed not possible to bring the INF Treaty back to life by August, should we not now make statements about no or never INF systems in the Netherlands? He also refers to the statements made by German Minister Maas on this subject. At present, there are no plans for some kind of deployment of INF weapons in Europe. At the same time, it does not seem logical to me to answer a non-asked question: how should we ever deal with it in the future? We are thinking here of a treaty that once came about because it was cleverly handled. It came because it was said at the time, including after a heated debate in the Netherlands and in other European countries, that Russia was drawing up nuclear weapons in the 1980s. They were already there; even then Russia was in the wrong direction. At that time, the well-known double decision was taken which announced that the Netherlands and other countries would draw up weapons, but we will not do it if Russia withdraws them and concludes a treaty. That worked fantastic. It is precisely with that lesson in mind that we all regret the fact that this treaty is threatening to come, and I would not like to give an answer to non-asked questions. It would reduce the negotiating position that came so well in hand 30 years ago. I know that this debate is also taking place in Germany. I know that Mr Maas made that statement, and I also know that there have been statements in Parliament that Germany has joined the general NATO line. But that's not a tough case yet. Mr Sjoerdsma asked whether the use of sanctions was an appropriate instrument in his interruption to the European Union. I am there that an appropriate measure is in favour of using the enormous economic power that Europe has, preferably vis-à-vis individuals and as little as possible affecting the population. It is only in this particular case that I do not think it is a logical measure. Because we are threatened by rockets that are banned but are in place, I do not think that the sanction instrument that we use at other times, for example in the occupation of Crimea and what we hope to use on human rights violations, is the logical answer to the violation of a nuclear disarmament treaty. Mr Sjoerdsma asked whether the verification system which operated until 2001 could be re-established. In that verification system, the Russian infringement was raised at the time. I have already indicated that it has been a long time since this violation has been explicitly raised for the first time. There was no response from the Russian side at the time, at least not seriously. That's when the verification system was killed first. I fully agree with Mr Sjoerdsma that we should ideally return to a system of a working verification treaty with Russia, preferably with China and with other countries. But as a separate component, it will not be feasible at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u282	I'm sorry, I just want you to... I don't have to apologize at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u283	Well, you'll fit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u284	I would like to suggest that the Minister deal with the remaining points. Then you will have the opportunity to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u285	Then I come to Mr Koopmans' final questions. He asked when the letter was coming about the deployment of new technologies for weapons of mass destruction. I hope to send it to the Chamber in two weeks. I share his concerns, which are mentioned in the report that we do not have at present, but will soon be. This is about the consequence, for example, of artificial intelligence, both in the case of nuclear threat and in the case of conventional threat, which can be greatly expanded in effect and scale. In the letter I will come up with, I will go into that. By the way, also on the overlap that exists with peaceful applications and the role that the Netherlands currently plays in taking these developments into account in the arms control platforms in which the Netherlands is active. We'll come back to that in great detail. With this I hope to have answered the questions in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u286	Is there a question that hasn't been answered, Mr. Sjoerdsma?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u287	Yes, Mr. Chairman. In particular, the question... The Minister is quite clear: he does not consider the instruments of sanctions appropriate in this case where arms control treaties are not respected. But the treaty itself does not have a sanctioning mechanism either. There are no sanctions in the treaty. It doesn't say if you don't follow it, this or this or this. No, then the treaty will end at some point. What does this minister see as a means of exerting pressure on the parties to comply with this treaty?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u288	It's a logical question. But Mr Sjoerdsma realizes that you have a whole escalation ladder... this one is getting more and more horrible.............................................................................................................................................................................................. I do not want to get into a situation where I am going to list the whole escalation ladder that is possible, because there are also all kinds of military options in it. I don't want to get in it. But I cannot rule out anything either; I said so in the letter on the termination of this treaty. As annoying as it may be, the sanction for the termination of a disarmament treaty or an arms freeze treaty is, in the end, that both sides can take further steps which increase risks and entail economic costs. The stick behind the door, that you both have the reward of avoiding that situation, is still there, but I don't want to take it very visibly out of the closet to start measuring again how wide and long it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u289	Finally, Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u290	I also hope with the Minister that we do not need to resort to military measures. But precisely because the escalation ladder outlined by the Minister is undesirable, I would say: start on the civilian side, start with personal or economic sanctions, start with something that is not immediately violent or has to radiate violence. So again the question to the Minister why he does exclude that from the escalation ladder.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u291	Because I do not think that is the logical consequence of a disarmament treaty. Mr Sjoerdsma rightly points out that it is not there. It has also been considered in the drafting of the Treaty what the consequences will be of non-compliance. It has been considered that both countries are going to run risks again and have to start to incur costs. At the same time, there was no choice for the instruments of sanctions. So you would introduce a whole new instrument which I do not think is the right instrument in this so vast power-political game.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u292	Thank you. Then we have now reached the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Van Ojik on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u293	Mr President, thank you. Thanks to the Minister. It looks gloomy for the INF Convention. Even after today, we can draw this conclusion again. I believe with the cabinet that Russia is violating the terms of the INF Convention. I do believe that, but that was no reason to say it for a number of years. That was, of course, because we were glad that we still had that treaty, even if only to address Russia in relation to those violations. Now the treaty is in danger of disappearing. We do not want it, but it is inevitable if we do not extend the deadline of 2 August. That only makes sense, says the Minister. I have listened carefully to him if there is a credible plan as to what we might want to do with that extra time. It doesn't have to be a public call for me, but I'm still going to file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the period between termination and termination of the INF Convention is six months;]] [[Whereas the extension of the period of notice allows for negotiations on the maintenance or even extension of the INF Convention;]] [[calls on the Government to take diplomatic initiatives aimed at extending the period of notice of the INF Convention,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Ojik, Mr Ploumen and Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33694-40]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u294	My second motion, chairman, if I may...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u295	No, because you have three seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u296	I can see that, yes, but I may be able to read very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u297	Well, Mr. Van Ojik. If it's a short motion, it's okay. We just made a deal about that at the Bureau. Go read it very quickly, time starts now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u298	A brief motion. I'm gonna read real fast. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Notes that the INF Convention automatically expires on 2 August 2019 after its termination;]] [[Whereas the INF Convention is of great value to Europe's nuclear safety;]] [[considers that additional diplomatic means should be used to try to save the INF Convention;]] [[calls on the Government to do everything possible in the next 100 days to save the INF Convention and inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Ojik, Mr Ploumen and Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33694-41]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u299	I've outdone myself, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u300	You can do it. Thank you, Mr. Van Ojik. I now give the floor to Mr Sjoerdsma on behalf of D66. You have seen how it went with Mr Van Ojik, so I would like to begin with the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u301	Madam President, that is a sensible opinion, but I do not. Today, a sad perspective on the INF Treaty has indeed been outlined. Expanding with China? Not much of a chance. Get Russia back to the table, right? We don't expect much of it. We should not do civil pressure according to this minister, so I do sympathise with what Mr Van Ojik says. These 100 days, however bleak the perspective may be, we will have to do everything we can to fight something for each other there. If that does not work, I think it would be a good idea to give this minister some direction for the period after that. That's what I'm happy to do. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the United States and Russia have terminated the INF Convention;]] [[Whereas the end of this Convention may launch a new nuclear arms race;]] [[noting that this will have a very negative impact on the security of Europe and the Netherlands;]] [[whereas Germany has already expressed its opposition to the installation of INF missiles in Europe;]] [[calls on the government to ensure that no INF missiles will be placed in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Van Helvert and Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33694-42]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u302	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u303	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Koopmans on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u304	Thank you, Mr President. Once again, I would also like to thank the Minister for answering the questions. I would also like to correct myself, because I was mistaken earlier: the Bhagavad Gita is a Hindu text and of course not a Hindu text. How stupid I could be. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the new technological developments have led and will lead to the creation and spread of new weapons that are cheaper and easier to make, with the potential to sow death and destruction on an unprecedented scale, and can therefore be considered weapons of mass destruction;]] [[noting that these weapons are not covered by the existing non-proliferation treaties;]] [[calls on the Government to be a practical and realistic driver of a treaty as broad and far-reaching as possible or other binding international rules to control the production, placement, dissemination and deployment of new potential weapons of mass destruction,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Koopmans, Mr Van Helvert, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Krol, Mr Van Ojik, Mr Ploumen, Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Voordewind.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33694-43]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u305	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for the answers. I would like to call on him to do everything possible to prevent the Treaty from being finally denounced in the next 100 days. That is why I have also supported a number of proposals that Mr Van Ojik calls for. I also support a number of proposals put forward by Mrs Karabulut. I look forward to the debate on the AIV opinion, because I hope to be able to table a motion together with Mr Van Helvert on transparency in the presence or absence of nuclear weapons on Dutch territory. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u306	Thank you, Mrs Ploumen. I now give the floor to Mr Van Helvert on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u307	Look at that. It's beautiful. Then Mrs Ploumen can really do something instead of just pleading for it. That would be nice, Madam President. Thank you to the Minister for replying, I say through you, Madam President, and for the Minister's speech in which he emphasizes what really cannot be done. I understand, because he wants to keep his expectations down. I fully understand that the Netherlands alone, or the Foreign Minister or the Prime Minister, cannot break or make a whole INF treaty. And yet, perhaps that is the style, I ask the Minister a certain kind of enthusiasm to achieve something. I hope he sees a challenge in getting people at the table in that impossibility. Somewhere, the Netherlands is just good at that. Maybe that's all we think, but that's enough for a start. I kind of miss that enthusiasm. For example, see how the Netherlands managed to set up the Hanzeliga. Then they also said in advance: Wopke and seven dwarves, that will never work. But it became more than seven dwarfs. At first the league was chaffed out by the Minister of France, but in the end they have to do something! So I'm still asking the Minister if he can tell us as a Chamber: dear people, I understand your concerns, you really shouldn't charge me for the result, but you can assume that I'm really going to try this in the next 100 days. I'm curious about that in the second instance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u308	Thank you. Even without motions, you will go over your speaking time, but all right. Very bad, yes, that really can't be done, Mr. Van Helvert. I call Mrs Karabulut on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u309	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The developments of recent years, increasing tension, militarisation and a nuclear arms race, are dangerous. Continuing along this path will lead to even more insecurity in Europe, but also in the rest of the world, and even more billions wasted in the pursuit of military superiority. This dynamic must be broken as far as the SP is concerned. It's time for the adults in the room to rise: adults, get up. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the US has denounced the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Convention, the INF Convention, after which Russia did the same;]] [[noting that the six-month notice period after which the Treaty obligations cease to apply will expire on 2 August;]] [[Considers that the INF Convention has ensured security on the European continent and that it is undesirable for the US and Russia to cease to be bound by the obligations of the Convention;]] [[calls on the Government, together with like-minded countries, to work for a high-level meeting, preferably of Heads of Government, on European security while preserving and possibly extending the INF Convention, inviting both the US and Russia to do so,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Karabulut, Mr Van Ojik and Mr Ploumen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33694-44]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u310	Thank you. I'm gonna take a look at the minister. The last motion will be copied and distributed. That's very good, I've heard of Mrs Karabulut. Are we waiting for the final motion, or can you start? You can start, then we will. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u311	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Sjoerdsma was still entitled to a first-term reply. The question was whether there were any legal obstacles to returning to the decision to terminate the INF Convention. There aren't any. If both parties want to return to their steps, then they can do so legally. Then I'll get to the motions. The first, in part No. 40, by Mr Van Ojik, Mrs Ploumen and Mrs Karabulut, and calls on the Government to take diplomatic initiatives aimed at extending the period of notice of the INF Convention. I have indicated that the Netherlands, with other countries, has been successful in reaching a postponement for the termination of the treaty itself. However, the international situation, the attitude of the Russian Federation in particular, is not at present such that a further postponement will lead to new openings. So I must advise against this motion. The motion in part No. Mr Van Ojik, Mrs Ploumen and Mrs Karabulut asked the government to do everything possible in the next 100 days to save the INF Convention and inform the Chamber. I have indicated the initiatives taken by the cabinet to this end. I'm not going to list them all again. There are many of them, both from me personally and from colleague Ploumen. I mean colleague Bijleveld. Colleague Ploumen, das war einmal. This means that this motion is policy support.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u312	The motion in part No. So 41 is judgment room?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u313	No, support policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u314	Just for a second. We have agreed on an assessment framework. The cabinet has to abide by that. "Support policy" we don't know. It's judgment room, dissuade, or...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u315	Then it's judgment room. I was so pleased to say that we simply agree on the gaps between opposition and coalition, with an outstretched hand. So it's judgment room, but I think that assessment can be warmer. The Chamber could consider that again. I shall then come to the motion on part No. 42 by Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Van Helvert and Mr Voordewind. The motion calls on the cabinet to ensure that no INF missiles will be placed in the Netherlands. I have indicated that there is no such intention at all at the moment. I hope we never have to get into that situation. We have this INF Convention precisely because such a motion was never adopted in the 1980s. Then we could go straight up by saying to Russia: we are going to place them, but not if you withdraw them as well. This motion actually makes such a negotiating situation impossible. At least, the Netherlands should not participate. That's why I have to discourage this motion. The motion in part No. 43 was very widely signed, first of all by Mr Koopmans. The motion calls on the government to be a practical and realistic driver of the broadest possible and most far-reaching treaty or other binding international rules governing the production, placement, dissemination and deployment of new potential weapons of mass destruction. The government will be happy to do so. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 44 by Mrs Karabulut, Mrs Ploumen and Mr Van Ojik, the government, together with like-minded countries, is calling for a high-level meeting, preferably by Heads of Government, on European security, while preserving and possibly extending the INF Convention, and inviting both the US and Russia to do so. I have indicated that there is a de facto denial on the part of the Russian Federation at this time of the violations it has committed. Such a consultation at the moment would therefore be completely pointless, however regrettable it may be. So I must also advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u316	Mrs Karabulut, you will have the opportunity to speak on the motion, but not to have another discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u317	I never do. At least, not right now. It's not about a meeting right now. It is an effort in the coming period. The Minister can't argue with that, can he?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u318	I think I should give a realistic picture of the message we are getting from other countries. I have also explained this in detail in reply to Mrs Ploumen's question. This brings with it an assessment of the likelihood that the meeting requested by the motion will also be held. The fair estimate is that it will not be there and that it will not be successful. I think I should give you that announcement. That's why I don't recommend the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u319	Not only is the Minister very pessimistic; he can apparently look into the future as well. He's got a glass ball. This is an effort obligation, knowing that there are several European countries that share these concerns and knowing that when you ask an open question parties might come to the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u320	I have already indicated that it would of course be nice if the Netherlands together with Belgium were to send you an invitation and that Russia suddenly says: well, we hadn't thought about that; now that we have an invitation, we are going to sit down at the table. Unfortunately, that's not how the world works.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u321	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-24-tweedekamer-6.u322	I thank Members of Parliament, I thank the Minister and, of course, everyone who has followed this debate. The motions tabled will be put to the vote after May.
