ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-2.u1	The next item is oral Question Time. We shall begin with Mr Snels' question. The question was actually addressed to the Minister for Finance, but it is the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate, whom I welcome, who is going to answer Mr Snels' questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. The rising energy bill is rising much faster than the cabinet has told us so far. That's the news from the Central Bureau of Statistics. That's not a blunder, that's a chronicle of an announced blunder. The cabinet was deaf to the opposition's warnings and put its head in the sand. This is about 2019, not the sums of the climate agreement for the coming years. This is about what people have to pay this year. According to GroenLinks, there are two errors. The first mistake is the purchasing power tags. GroenLinks is already drawing attention to this in the debates on the coalition agreement, the Millions Note, the Tax Plan and the Navy Note. The purchasing power figures that the government is so proud of do not clearly show the adverse effects of increasing energy taxes and the reduction in the energy bill for lower incomes. The second error is that energy prices are rising faster than the government estimates. The increase is not €108 but €334, and the Minister's colleague, his Secretary of State, said on 11 December that we should not scare people. Because according to Secretary of State Keijzer, there's nothing wrong. Mr. Chairman. I have the following questions. Does the Minister agree with me that two mistakes have been made, both in the purchasing power estimate and in the estimate for the energy account? Does the Minister agree with me that due to these two errors in the rising energy bill, the cabinet does not keep the promise that everyone, or almost everyone, should make progress in 2019? Can the Minister indicate how many people are going down because of this rising energy bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-2.u3	I shall now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-2.u4	Mr. Chairman. For understandable reasons, Mr Snels mentioned the name of Secretary of State Keijzer, but I would just like to say that she was here on my behalf. Her name should in no way be associated with this file. So you're really gonna have to do it with me. Many households are uncomfortablely surprised by the energy tariffs for 2019. The cabinet has indeed made a ruling on this earlier, but let me be clear about it immediately. Yes, the cabinet has based itself on the estimates that are always used, of the Planning Office for the Environment, the NEV. However, in all honesty, the cabinet should not have been so sure, knowing that the NEV predictions were already more than a year old at the time and that apparently other parties in the market would have anticipated that for the following year other energy tariffs could not be applied but the following year. So that determination was unjustified. One of the things that needs to be done right away, I started some time ago, is this huge cacaphony of different communications about the energy bill. It confuses a lot of people. So it is important to update that estimate of the NEV 2017 that we are currently working with. I asked the Planning Bureau for the Environment two weeks ago, but I also had a conversation with parties like the Nibud, the CBS and the Association Eigen Huis. We all use other things and the Empire always assumes the NEV, but it is clear that it is useful to make that more compatible. As far as purchasing power is concerned, I can't say yet. I know this. An inflation forecast was assumed by the CPB. That inflation forecast still seems to be in line with that. This would mean that although energy has increased more strongly, other things less, but in all honesty, let us not anticipate that. Let me leave that certainty aside for a moment. Whether it really is, we need to look at the CPB figures for next month. Then I also hope to have the update of the Energy Bill of the Plan Bureau for the Environment. So then we have both one picture of the development of the energy account and the latest inflation rates and thus the latest purchasing power figures. So we can answer Mr Snels' questions. Again, that's all wonderful, but that doesn't help people at home. For the time being, people have an energy bill and energy tariffs that have fallen out higher than they thought. In all honesty, I shall say: even higher than the cabinet thought on the basis of the PBL estimates.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-2.u5	I think the Minister is a bit laconic. He talks about confusion, but this is about real euros that people now get on their energy bills every year and every month and that really have to be paid.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-2.u6	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-2.u7	And that means that the Minister did not reply to this question that the Minister and the Cabinet could not keep the promise that everyone would progress. In 2019, people, large groups of people with especially lower incomes, will decline and not, as the cabinet proudly presented in the Millions Note, will improve on it. I have already put the question to the Minister of Finance in the Navy's note. With him, we have had that debate, with the Autumn Note, but also before with the Tax Plan and with the Millions Note. We also put forward proposals for this at the time. A motion has been adopted that, if the energy bill fails, the cabinet will take measures to compensate for the energy bill. My question to the Minister is: what type of measures does the cabinet intend to take? Can we do that before 2019? It's really about this year, about what people are paying right now. Does the Minister agree that this is important to ensure that people, especially with lower incomes, improve in purchasing power and that this is much better for the climate policy's acceptance?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-2.u8	Mr. Chairman. Mr Snels knows better than anyone that purchasing power developments really do not depend solely on the energy bill. The broader inflation is a point there. The broader inflation expectations do not seem to have changed. Once again, we have to look at the estimates of the CPB, as Mr Snels knows very well. Then we know what the effects are on overall price development and on purchasing power. That's where it counts. Then we can determine how purchasing power develops compared to what was previously estimated by the CPB.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-2.u9	But that purchasing power estimate was the first mistake of the cabinet. The CPB itself has already indicated that it has been admitted by the Minister of Finance that energy taxes and savings on the energy discount are not well reflected in the purchasing power of the Central Planning Office and that lower incomes are falling more than the government thinks. This is now only getting worse because of rising rates, so even larger groups of people will eventually decline. I fear that the cabinet is now making its third mistake, following the purchasing power bill and rising rates. The third mistake is: now that we see that the energy bill is really disappointing, not giving people the certainty and no clarity that that rising energy bill will be compensated this year, in 2019. I would like to have an answer to that, because that is an approved motion from this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-2.u10	At the heart of the matter is that many people are uncomfortablely surprised by the higher rates that have occurred in the energy market. That's the point. Mr. Snels knows damn well that the CPB is about his own calculations and not the cabinet. We have a moment to live with that. There's full clarity about what's in there. There's no surprises in that. We also know that we only assess purchasing power when purchasing power is calculated. We'll have a first look at that next month. Then we see inflation and it says something about purchasing power. Mr Snels and I will look at these graphs together. He knows that's gonna happen. Again, the essence of the matter is not about all this statistics. It's about people at home who are uncomfortablely surprised by their higher energy bill. That's what we all find here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-2.u11	Thank you, Mr. Quick. Then I'll go to Mrs. Marijnissen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-2.u12	What is happening here today is quite a scandal. This cabinet is full of shit. How many times have people heard that they'd get better? That was also said when this cabinet took office. Two weeks ago, we were standing here in the great climate debate and for the umpteenth time the SP made a proposal to reduce the energy bill. We got hoarded by the coalition. It was all unnecessary, it was all very easy and everyone would take advantage of the growing economy; everyone would improve on it. What we see...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-2.u13	The question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-2.u14	...is that the energy bill is going up. That's what I'm getting at, Mr. Chairman. The rent goes up, the cost of childcare goes up, the VAT on the groceries goes up and so I can continue. And this cabinet doesn't do anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-2.u15	The question, Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-2.u16	Our demand to the cabinet is: take action and lower the energy bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-2.u17	The general purchasing power debate is held with ministers who know much more about it than I do, and that is that of finance and SZW. We all know that VAT, etc., etc., were simply included in those estimates. We do not know that we really cannot determine whether anything has changed in relation to the inflation forecasts of the first time. We know about one portion of the energy bill. I think that's serious enough, because that's what I'm dealing with. It is the market that is asking for higher prices. The Plan Bureau for the Environment didn't foresee that, and neither did I. We have been too firm about this as a cabinet. The estimate was not necessarily correct, but it seems to me too early to anticipate the CBP figures in a month's time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-2.u18	Then my specific question to the Minister is what he will do. He can't get out of here today with some kind of "mistake, thank you" attitude? Yeah, people are uncomfortablely surprised by their rising energy bill. We have a Energy Account Report.............................................................................................................................................. So again, my question. The minister can't get away with "mistake, thank you" today. He has to intervene. Is he willing to correct his mistake and the mistake of this cabinet and compensate people for those rising energy bills?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-2.u19	Power bill's rising. That is a serious concern and I will discuss it in the cabinet, but we are not just looking at the energy bill. Life is more than energy. There are also other categories and we will get more insight into them next month. We're also getting an update from the power bill. I asked for that two weeks ago at the Planning Office for the Environment. With these facts in hand, this should be discussed in the Cabinet. But Mrs Marijnissen can't blame me for not making commitments at this point in Question Time that are on the ground of other rulers. I can therefore say that I am taking it seriously with me to the cabinet, but in a broader context and with all the figures at hand, but I am not going to put my colleagues on the spot in a Question Time. I can't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-2.u20	I don't suppose it's because it's Question Time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-2.u21	It is because the preparation time is rather short.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-2.u22	Yes, of course. I am not going to discuss this, but it is important that commitments can also be made in Question Time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-2.u23	Sure you can, but thoughtful and after consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-2.u24	Good. Then Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-2.u25	Mr. Chairman. The Minister for Economic Affairs spoke of his colleagues from Finance and Social Affairs. Well, those maths aren't always good either. I have a message for me from 2018 and what do we get: "Buy power that lasted in economic jubilee 2017." That was declared by Minister Koolmees on 17 May 2018. So in the autumn, in October, Minister Koolmees blunders with purchasing power figures. And in January and February we get: purchasing power figures are disappointing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-2.u26	Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-2.u27	What I see here is that the purchasing power figures in 2017 are very disappointing and that the purchasing power figures in 2018 are very disappointing. I predict they're going to be very disappointing this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-2.u28	What's the question, Mr. Van Rooijen?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-2.u29	My question is whether, if it turns out that I am getting right again, the Minister will agree to the President's permission to make a purchasing power correction this year, and not just for the energy bill, but for all the costs in total which are much higher than we thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-2.u30	Estimates don't always come true. The speaker himself knows damn well from his past that it is. Estimates are estimates and not facts. We are constantly looking at purchasing power. The rising energy prices are falling cold on the roof, and that is a good point of discussion in the cabinet, but I am not going to make any commitments on behalf of colleagues and not until I know if there really is a purchasing power issue, and we do not know that yet. We know something about one cost item and it is likely that other cost items will compensate for that. That's what it looks like in inflation expectations, but that's what we're gonna see.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-2.u31	Mr. Chairman. In December I stood there, behind the speaker, in Question Time, also on behalf of the PVV, and then I said that this year, 2019, the energy bill would go up by at least €300. And then, in trade-K, there was a secretary of state at EZK playing the game. I was put away a little bit like a crazy Henkie: it wasn't true. The numbers don't add up, she literally said. "We shouldn't scare people." But what does it turn out to be? The numbers are right. This year, on average, the energy bill goes up by €334. Now the cabinet has to admit that reluctantly. Then the question is, what are people doing with this? This is a cabinet that does nothing but lie, cheat, fool people, and in the meantime the burdens are going to go up tremendously! People just can't afford it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-2.u32	Good. Then I give...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-2.u33	A lot of people live in energy poverty. This cabinet has promised that everyone would improve.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-2.u34	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-2.u35	What the hell is that gonna do?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-2.u36	Well, we start the week very enthusiastically.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-2.u37	The purchasing power figures that regularly come out will give us the answer to that last question. Yes, I have said quite frankly that the cabinet has expressed itself too strongly on the basis of estimates from the Planning Office for the Environment, which were already quite old at the time. I really request that my colleague, the Secretary of State, be kept outside and speak to me as a portfolio holder. She didn't have a hand in that at all. The determination of the cabinet was not justified. We based ourselves on estimates that were already too old at the time. We are going to see whether or not the purchasing power has actually been affected, but there is more to it than just energy. Mr Kops knows this very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-2.u38	What an incredibly bad answer. Let me say, however, that the Secretary of State of EZK replied on behalf of the entire cabinet...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-2.u39	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-2.u40	...so also on behalf of this minister. Then the Minister can refer nicely to all sorts of figures that are yet to come, but that doesn't help the people at home. They have been promised that they would all improve. There's not gonna be any of it. This cabinet does nothing but lie, cheat and plunder the citizens' wallet. But there is going to be a moment that will be on March 20th when people will be able to pay off. Then I don't mean the towering energy note, but that they can finally deal with this terrible cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-2.u41	Then I will go to Mr Stoffer on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-2.u42	A few weeks ago, Minister Koolmees, also on behalf of the cabinet, expressly assured me that 97% of the people in the Netherlands are improving this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-2.u43	96%.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-2.u44	97%. In addition, 96% is said, but it's 97%. I understand what Minister Wiebes says, namely that there are many more parameters in total purchasing power, but this parameter is quite clear: the energy bill is disappointing. If this parameter continues to fall and brings down 97%, is this Minister prepared to compensate at this point in his portfolio?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-2.u45	I say, this is a lot of people falling cold on the roof. That is something that needs to be discussed in the Cabinet, but we continue to see purchasing power policy in the context of the whole and never in a category. So if there's something going on, that has to be discussed, but that's not specific and exclusive from the energy bill. Again, that's why we look at the price development of all categories and look at what a household has lost more to all kinds of things. We take all these factors into account in relation to the estimate and then look at what remains of the purchasing power.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-2.u46	Second question, Mr. Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-2.u47	Well, a conclusion, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-2.u48	Well, that counts, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-2.u49	My conclusion is that I hear the Minister say: when it is necessary, we will compensate on the energy bill. I'm assuming that's what I'm gonna do, and I'm gonna stick with the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-2.u50	Then I will go to Mr Sienot on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-2.u51	This really is a huge failure, which does not improve confidence in the accounts. We have a lot of questions about that. We will also ask written parliamentary questions, but I would like to ask one here. We know that insufficient account has been taken of the current figures, the real consumption in 2018. A model about 2018 has been included. When passing on the climate agreement, is the real consumer data taken into account, and can we therefore trust that people can get viable and affordable calculations out of it in a good way?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-2.u52	The passing on of the climate agreement on the impact on households will not be at purchasing power level but at income effects. This can be seen in ten years' time. These income effects will not depend on these matters. Moreover, market prices are not very predictable in any case over a period of 11 years until 2030, so they do not lend themselves to such things either. What we're going to see are the income effects as determined by the Central Planning Bureau for different types of households. That is not disturbed by this discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-2.u53	As far as my group is concerned, this news has really fallen on the roof. We think this is incredibly stupid. This sucks. I also notice that there has been a great deal of unrest in society. This is not good for people's trust in government, but it is not good for confidence in the energy bill and the energy transition. I really have only one question for the Minister: how are we going to ensure that citizens in our country regain confidence in the approach of this government, this cabinet, climate change and the energy transition? For my group, it has always been important that we do so socially and fairly. Today's news is gonna put a lot of pressure on that. That's not what we want.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-2.u54	"Balen" is the right word. That's what I'm in. A lot of people in households are seeing their energy prices rise. This is not because of the government but because of the market, but it does not matter in euros. It's the same euros and it's the same wallet. Estimates may be wrong, but I believe that confidence can only come from the most recent figures, by reflecting differences between households and by paying attention to those income effects, but also by being honest about the uncertainties in those estimates. That is where I think the firmness of the cabinet was too great. We must always be clear about what is a fact and what is an estimate. Estimates can be wrong, and I think people at home will understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-2.u55	I would like to make those last words clear, because it is a sum of many different additional costs for our citizens. That's why all this is so hard. If you have the expectation that it will rise less rapidly, and then it will rise to this extent, then I understand the concerns of our inhabitants very well. We all have those people on the phone and on the mail; they report to us. I want to know what the cabinet's gonna do about this later. The cabinet really must have an answer to this, because this is not acceptable to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-2.u56	There are two things that show us what's really going on, because we really only have a part of the picture. The first is that we ask the Planning Office for the Environment for an update when it comes to the question of what the energy bill looks like compared to a similar household. The second is that we are going to look at the overall price development and purchasing power consequences as we get from the Central Planning Office next month. Then the broader picture is visible and we see whether there is an issue here with the energy bill, how big it is and what it is; whether there is an issue of wider purchasing power. Depending on that, I am going to discuss this with my colleagues who are responsible for purchasing power. That is also the time for Mrs Mulder to form her opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-2.u57	Sums have been made on the basis of old data. Of course, that must not happen. This causes unrest and anger in people's homes. They have a lot of questions, and I get them. They live with the VVD, too. A lot of questions have already been asked here by colleagues and we will also submit them in writing. Of course we all want to pass on the Netherlands cleanly to the generations after us, but in a way that is affordable and manageable for everyone. I wonder if we can make that happen this way. Is it affordable? I would very much like to know from the Minister how these assumptions and forecasts differ so much from the current figures. Do we have any sharp market developments? And again, what does this mean for the passing on of the climate agreement? I think we need a lot of clarity very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-2.u58	The main cause is simply that the market requires different rates. The tariffs for 2019, both for electricity and gas, were disappointing. Therefore, it is also important to have that conversation with the CBS.The Planbureau for the Environment and CBS take a different type of household with different consumption. That's gonna save you a lot of money. So we need to see what is really going on there, but there will certainly be households that will be responsible for this increase in costs. This is significant on an annual basis. The short-term increase in energy prices does not mean everything for the passing on of the climate agreement. What we see, above all, is that investment costs fall in society. That is an important point. That's what they're gonna cost. Strictly speaking, as energy becomes more expensive, investment in an energy-neutral house will, of course, only become more profitable. But let's not anticipate that effect. All in all, it is important for us to show that this is just for this Chamber to be judged, and that is up to the politicians that a possible climate agreement should make it easier for the citizen and that it is clear which households have something to expect. It will cost something, but we are, as we know, striving to achieve as much as possible a cost-neutral transition to a sustainable economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-2.u59	Second question, Mrs Yeşilgöz
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-2.u60	I am convinced that the Minister not only wants to show it to the Chamber and to the people at home, but also, above all, to show that it can all be affordable and manageable. I hope that, on the basis of the correct figures, we will take a good look at that. I don't think we can go through this again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-2.u61	No, that's a very important point. That's a fact, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-2.u62	As far as the PvdA is concerned, the Minister can't get away with such a lame story. Over the past period, the cabinet has declared almost unisono, as proud as a cat with a herring in its mouth, which would benefit at least 97% of the Dutch. This purchasing power picture is now completely shattered. My question to the Minister is: is he prepared to take measures, for example by reducing energy taxes, in order to achieve purchasing power retention and improving purchasing power?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-2.u63	I really did answer that. Yeah, this house is falling raw on the roof. Whether it means something for total purchasing power and for total inflation, we are going to see that. That could be. I'm not ruling out any of that out. But looking at one category... It's really too soon. On the basis of the image that emerges, we are going to talk about it in the cabinet, as we always talk about purchasing power. But now making a commitment without any consultation and without the right figures, I really think it is too early. We are going to see the figures and then Mr Moorlag will be able to assess with me what is going on with purchasing power.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-2.u64	I just heard Mr Wiebes say that as the energy bill is higher, the savings by isolating your house are relatively greater. That would be true if that energy price was based on the actual cost of the energy itself. Only, of course, this increase is due to the increased taxes and so on. You should see that as a loss of income for the government. So that cannot be seen as saving, perhaps for the citizens themselves, but society as a whole still pays a high price.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-2.u65	This increase that we see here between CBS and the NEV 2017 is due to the market. The government didn't have a hand in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-2.u66	Mr Baudet, second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-2.u67	But you cannot separate the market price as such from all the policies taken by the government to increase the market price, such as the closure of all kinds of coal plants, all kinds of subsidies and all kinds of taxes that companies have to pay? You can't isolate that, can you? You can't say: that's a natural phenomenon, that increase in the energy bill? Isn't it because of the policy you are pursuing, the climate policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-2.u68	The market also has fluctuations. In itself, the fact that you are subsidising a company does not lead to a higher gas price or a higher electricity price.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-2.u69	There is one thing that remains completely unclear. At the end of last year there were two energy companies that said: the energy bill is going to increase by €300 to €400; €340 was mentioned. Now the Minister says: we based our answer on figures that were no longer fresh. But the National Energy Exploratory was at that time fourteen months old. How is it possible that there are companies that come up with figures and that the Secretary of State, on behalf of the Minister, flops with a paper of fourteen months old and says "no, fourteen months ago the situation was really different"? How is that possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-2.u70	There the certainty has been too great. There was a bandwidth in different predictions about what the energy tariffs would be from 2019. It wasn't yet 2019. But I am the first to acknowledge that there was too much certainty there and that there were other parties who were more right than the estimation at that time of the Planning Office for the Environment, which was indeed already old back then. Mr Wassenberg is quite right about that. That is why a little less certainty would have been appropriate for the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-2.u71	Thank you.
