ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-2.u1	As usual on Tuesday, we shall begin with oral Question Time. Today we begin with a question from Mr Wiersma, on behalf of the VVD Group. His question concerns WW benefits for migrant workers. The question is put to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment, whom I would also like to welcome. I call Mr Wiersma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr President, thank you. Over and over again we are shocked by reports of benefits being abused for holidays abroad. Nieuwsuur recently reported that of the people who bring a WW benefit from the Netherlands to Poland, only 1% find work. 1%! That defies your sense of justice. Our benefits are meant for if you work hard here, join in and build that safety net with each other in case you have a problem. It is not meant to walk away after barely working and with a beautiful Dutch WW and to celebrate holidays in Poland. We need to protect our social system and not put it on sale. But what do we see now? Instead of doing everything we can to curb these practices, there will be European rules that will only make it easier for these welfare tourists. I can assume that the Minister has seen these new rules coming from Europe for quite some time. The VVD has repeatedly asked to go with countries, to come up with alternatives. Didn't that work out? What effort has the Minister made? And did he come up with working alternatives with Member States? We just haven't heard enough, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. A so-called emergency braking procedure is being speculated. That sounds a bit like mustard after dinner. In addition, the Minister says that this is also an opportunityless exercise. How's that? Can he explain that? Because in a route that doesn't have a chance in advance, the VVD also has no appetite. We must ensure that we take back the direction of our social security and that our benefits do not leak out abroad. It is nice that the Minister always says that he agrees with the VVD, but how is he really going to deal with that? It's really important now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-2.u3	I give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-2.u4	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to thank Mr Wiersma for the questions he has put. Last night, I sent a letter to your Chamber about the recent developments on this file. I agree with the general line of what Mr Wiersma said, that the sense of justice is being tarnished. That's how the Dutch cabinet feels. That is why the cabinet has been opposed to this proposal since the start of negotiations on this new directive in 2016, at the time of the previous cabinet. As far as nuance is concerned, there are good elements in this proposal, for example on information exchange and combating exploitation. That kind of element is positive. But exactly the point why the Netherlands is against it is indeed in exporting the WW benefit. People pay taxes and contributions when they work in the Netherlands, so they are entitled to a certain social security; that's fine. It is true, however, that this kind of benefit will go wrong if it is exported to another country, where the level of prosperity is lower, and so the benefit is much higher. So since the start of these negotiations, the Dutch cabinet has opposed the extension of the export period. Mr Wiersma is right to say that it is mainly about the chance of a resumption of work. We see that people in the Netherlands can get back to work after a certain period of time and accept a new job, but that is much less for people in other countries. This also has to do with the difference in welfare levels, wages and benefits. A new directive is indeed on the way. The ambassadors will vote on this tomorrow in Brussels. Over the last year and a half, the Netherlands has opposed this new directive. Mr Wiersma said: we could have seen that coming for a while. That's right. In June 2018, I discussed the so-called "general orientation" with your Chamber. It has already been voted on in Brussels. Negotiations were then held between the European Commission and the European Parliament. The rapporteur, Mr Balas, added other requirements. We in the Netherlands have lobbied very hard in recent times to push back those parts of the regulation, as it is called parliamentary. What efforts have I made? I do not think it is proper to reveal to anyone who has been spoken to, but basically: we have, of course, lobbied the like-minded Member States through the ambassador in Brussels. I myself spoke to Dutch MEPs and said to them: be against this. That also worked, by the way. All Dutch MEPs voted against this proposal in Brussels. We exchanged papers with the European Parliament. I also had a meeting last Friday on Friday 15 March with similar Member States. Normally I do not, but now I can tell which countries they were, because a picture of them has been published, and so it has become public. Germany, Austria, Belgium, Luxembourg and Denmark also have strong objections to this part of the Directive. The point is that a majority of Member States and the European Parliament are indeed in favour of this amendment of the directive. We simply have qualified majority voting in this area. Once again, as the Netherlands, we are doing everything we can to stop it. At the moment there is still lobbying in other Member States to stop it, but I thought it was nice to report this to your Chamber last night in a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-2.u5	I also asked questions about the emergency braking procedure. The Minister hasn't answered that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-2.u6	Maybe it's a good thing that that question is answered first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-2.u7	Yes. Mr Omtzigt asked a question to the cabinet last Thursday to come forward with a letter following the rumours that a trilogue agreement would have been concluded last Tuesday. I sent that letter to your room last night. I also mentioned that there is something like an emergency braking procedure, Article 48 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU. In the letter I also indicated why this is not a proportionate measure in this context. It does not fit in with the negotiations currently taking place in Europe in this area. For example, in recent years we have, of course, also adopted directives, such as the Detaching Directive or the Enforcement Directive, against which there was a great deal of opposition in Eastern European countries. This depends on the decision-making process in Europe by qualified majority. Moreover, such an emergency braking procedure does not understand the situation either, because the Member States remain in their position.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-2.u8	It is very nice that the Minister was in the picture a week ago with ministers from a number of other countries who want to stop this. The VVD has repeatedly asked if it wants to hang out with those countries, and the result is simply not there. Yet this is also the reality. I can see that, but the big question is: how do we ensure that, with this reality in this Parliament, which we do have something to say about, we do not open the door to benefit tourism? So you have to make choices, too. I'd like to hear from the Minister what choices he's going to make. Surely it can't be that he's been seeing this coming since 2016 but in the meantime he hasn't thought about how we could adjust our own WW in this Parliament in a way that does justice to all those hard-working people who put money aside every day for that WW and who now see that money is being abused? I'm gonna help the minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-2.u9	Tell me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-2.u10	... because I think that's necessary. I do not see in the proposal in the Minister's letter any mention of the possibility, for example, of distinguishing between migrant workers on the basis of the premium paid. Another possibility is that you fill in the height of the WW for migrant workers differently, so you first show that you are participating and want to build a bond with the Netherlands, before you get the right to more. Why shouldn't we just make a split? Initially a lower WW, and if you're willing to find real work here and stick your hands out, you'll also get the step, that real WW. With this we can keep the real WW for the people in the Netherlands. The third possibility is that we include the price level of the country of origin for the amount of the WW benefit. In Poland it is cheaper to live, so we can adjust the WW and apply the land factor, as it is technically called. Finally, enforcement. News hours pointed out, but the minister did not respond to this in the broadcast, that no signals have come from Poland and no benefits have been cut or withdrawn by the UWV either. How can that be true? Because that is a very bad predictor for this benefit tourism. We need to deal with this now, too, and that seems to be inadequate. What's the Minister gonna do?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-2.u11	Before I give the floor to the Minister, this is oral Question Time. I hear all of Mr Wiersma's proposals. If the Minister discusses everything in substance, we are in a debate. I'd like to keep an eye out for that. I would like to give the floor to the Minister, asking for a brief response to the questions. Maybe he can react in another way, in writing or in any way. Unless the Minister agrees with everything, then it's different.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-2.u12	Mr President, I will try to be brief and concise. But it's complicated stuff, so I have to put a nuance in it. Mr Wiersma says: over and over again the VVD Group has warned against this. Over and over again I have the VVD Group, I have informed Parliament what I am doing in Europe to achieve this. That little club of like-minded Member States, I have just mentioned the list of things that have actually been going on for a year and a half to get different parts of this directive adapted. There are also large countries, such as Germany. As a result, we have really been able to press on with the negotiation process and have turned a few things for the better. This is without prejudice to the fact that there is a majority of Member States which have a different view on this point. I find that annoying and I also find it bad because, as Mr Wiersma said, it defies the sense of justice. That's how it feels to me, too. That is why I am very motivated to respond to the follow-up actions. I'll do it in a minute. But Mr Wiersma cannot blame me for the fact that the Netherlands has been sitting still in recent years. That's what I wanted to say. The choices we have to make now can be roughly divided into two directions: things we could do in the Netherlands. This is indeed about enforcement, about monitoring exports and about thinking about preventing fraud or abuse of WW benefits, which, of course, are very good at heart, but which we do not want to abuse. That's one route. The other route is at European level: trying to change the rules again. One example of this, as the Parliament knows, is the fact that I have worked in recent years to adjust the indexing of child benefit at welfare level. That too is a very complicated debate in Europe, because in particular many Eastern European and Southern European countries say: residents of our country work in the Netherlands and pay taxes and contributions; they also have the same taxes and social security provisions as the Dutch themselves. That's a very complicated discussion. To this end, there is also a group of like-minded Member States that are pulling. They also see the sense of justice being tarnished.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-2.u13	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Wiersma. Then I will go to Mr De Jong on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-2.u14	Mr President, do you know what defies the Dutch' sense of justice? That they see a minister who chooses to let Poland celebrate free holidays for millions of euros in Poland, who laughs at himself and then sees this minister pretending to do everything he can to stop it, when he does not do so in practice. 'Cause what doesn't he do? He does not choose to go to Brussels and say: I am going to use this emergency braking procedure...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-2.u15	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-2.u16	...I'm gonna get this whole plan off the table right now. That is why my question is: do it again, show that the Minister has balls, that he dares. Go to Brussels and say: to here and no further.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-2.u17	Well, we just started today!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-2.u18	Mr President, if he does not, I will be asking for a debate in a moment to deal with it today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-2.u19	Okay. That's what you're gonna do with the arrangement. Thank you. The Minister for a brief response.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-2.u20	I dealt with this point in a letter to your Chamber last night and answered it in detail. I have also dealt with Article 48, as it is called. I also said that it is not proportionate and that it is not expected to lead to any other outcome. Moreover, and I think that is important to say, it damages the position of the Netherlands at a number of very important other negotiating points. The Minister of Finance is sitting next to me. At the moment, there are several dossiers in Europe where we have to look for majorities. In the interests of the Netherlands, the cabinet considers it very unwise to invoke the article. Moreover, our assessment is that it does not legally cut wood.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-2.u21	Mr Jasper van Dijk on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-2.u22	If you let someone choose between a wage of €600 per month and a payment of €1,200 per month, we know what that person will choose. That is exactly what makes this European regime possible, this export WW. This is precisely why Europe is failing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-2.u23	What's the question, Mr. Jasper van Dijk?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-2.u24	It would be incredibly weak if the Minister were not to stand up for our interest and say: this measure is, of course, not going to happen. He's got to pull the emergency brake, 'cause that train's gonna hit a wall hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-2.u25	The Minister. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-2.u26	Is he willing to do that? Otherwise, the Chamber will take care of it itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-2.u27	The Minister. The scheme also applies to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-2.u28	In essence, this is the same question as Mr De Jong just asked. I answered it in the letter last night. There is an Article 48 procedure, an emergency braking procedure in the field of social security. The government's analysis is that the effects on the Netherlands are not such that it would be proportionate to initiate that procedure. Plus, and I think that is important to reiterate that it will eventually come back to the Council of Heads of Government. That is where the Member States' relations are exactly the same. There the voting conditions are the same as in the Council of Ministers for Social Affairs. Apart from that, I agree with Mr Jasper van Dijk that this is a very unwise measure. I think this is a very unwise measure because it defies the sense of justice, but it is also bad for the European Union, for the sense of Europe. Because people see this and think: how can I explain it? I can't explain it either. Over the past year and a half, I have explained this to all those involved. It's very unwise to do this. Of course, people are entitled to social security benefits when they pay taxes and contributions, but this export is a real bone in the throat.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-2.u29	Mr Omtzigt has also requested a letter on my behalf to raise the question of the role of employers in this matter. That happens briefly. If Poland just stays at work, they get paid, but if they don't have a job here, the temporary accommodation is withdrawn very often, so they have to go home, to Poland. I just miss that in the letter. We should also talk here about the role of employers...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-2.u30	That's what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-2.u31	... doing so at taxpayers' expense and simply passing the burden on to the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-2.u32	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-2.u33	I agree with Mrs Van Brenk. There are indeed two sides to it. On the one hand, you have the abuse of regulations by taking the arrangements with you to Poland. On the other hand, employers make frequent use of this. As a result of the debates we held in October on fraud with the WW, this is precisely the point that emerged: the test of the culpability of unemployment. As you know, I'm working with the UWV to map that out. I am also trying to find solutions to ensure that workers who are actually undisputedly unemployed, who are therefore voluntarily unemployed, are no longer able to receive WW benefits. That is part of this broader problem. We are working with the UWV to tackle this problem, so that the risk of fraud is also reduced. I very much agree with Mrs Van Brenn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-2.u34	I am going on to say to Mrs Van Brenk that employers also have a role to play here. That is also a way of ensuring that the account does not end up with the Dutch taxpayer, because that is what is threatening to happen now. By misuse of benefits or by this strange new scheme, the Dutch taxpayer is again screwed. What instruments does the Minister have to ensure that costs are not passed on to the collective?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-2.u35	First a somewhat faint but factually correct answer: the WW premiums are of course paid by the employers. But apart from that, I agree with the thrust of Mr Bruins' question. If this is adopted, we should actually increase the chances of a resumption of work. But once again, we are still working as the Netherlands to prevent this from being adopted. The chances of that happening are low. We just have to be honest about that, too. The vote will take place tomorrow, so there is a good chance that this will continue. We will indeed have to take measures to increase the chances of a resumption of work. This means, for example, cooperation with the Polish UWV. There are already discussions between my ministry and the Polish Ministry to improve that. But it also means that the framework conditions of the WW need to be tightened to ensure that it really pays to go to work. For example, one of these components is in the revenue billing of the WW. That too is an instrument that you could use to increase the chance of a resumption of work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-2.u36	The whole Chamber and the Minister are not satisfied with what is here, but I do think that the Minister can be even clearer or sharper on two points in his response. In reply to Mr Bruins' question, he indicated that it is likely to be adopted tomorrow, but he said earlier in response to Mr Wiersma's questions that the lobby is still in full swing. In particular, continue this lobby and try to use this suggestion to respond to countries such as England and France. If one of these countries is involved, you may not have a majority, but you may be able to work with a blocking minority. Will the commitment be directed towards these countries in the coming day? When it comes to what we need to do, I would like the Minister to respond to the suggestions that go beyond just enforcement. We will also have to look at the structure, the percentage of contributions and the level of the export WW.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-2.u37	On Mr Heerma's first question: yes, the lobby continues. Mr Heerma mentions two countries. I do not normally say much about this, but France is clearly very much in favour of this directive. The French government is really lobbying for this. The UK is, of course, in a complicated situation with the Brexit debate and is not actually participating in this. There's a chance. Mr Heerma can rest assured that this is being tried, but I think it is fair to say that the chances of success are not very great, because of course we have been trying to do so over the last year and a half. I would like to be fair with Parliament. The second point concerns suggestions to look further. Yeah, we're definitely working on that. I want to pick that up, precisely to ensure that abuse is addressed and that the work resumes. I very much agree with Mr Heerma on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-2.u38	This is just a bad plan. Our MEPs are right to oppose it, as are the cabinet. I have a question about the remaining lobby. I assume the Minister is also actively lobbying himself on this last day. My question is whether the Prime Minister also plays a role in this, for example towards the Presidency and the French colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-2.u39	The lobby is still running and goes through several channels. I do not think it is a good idea to tell Parliament in detail who is being spoken to. That process must take place in confidence. Mr Van Weyenberg can rest assured that efforts are still being made to stop this by several channels. The chance of this again is very small. This caravan has actually been running since the general approach, so the general orientation, was adopted in June 2018. In the first instance, the proposal has only deteriorated as a result of the input of the European Parliament, which the Dutch MEPs were very opposed to, to say that again. Mr Van Weyenberg can be confident that this lobby is still running.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-2.u40	It is indeed a bad plan. The whole Dutch Parliament thinks it is a bad plan and the whole Dutch part of the European Parliament thinks it is a bad plan. Why? I do not even think that this can be attributed to the individual migrant worker, but above all to the whole trade which has been created with all kinds of intermediate agencies and vague temporary agency structures that encourage fraud. We must make every effort to ensure that it does not go through the lobby...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-2.u41	The question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-2.u42	... but we must also ensure that we tackle fraud. Moreover, we do not charge the individual worker for this, but the whole system around it, which ensures that there is a huge risk of fraud. Is the Minister prepared to deal with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-2.u43	Firstly, I very much agree with Mr Gijs van Dijk that the individual from Central and Eastern Europe is not to be blamed. Every year around 250,000 to 300,000 people from Central and Eastern Europe work in the Netherlands in sectors such as agriculture, horticulture and construction. They are indeed working, earning an income and paying taxes and contributions. It is true that we should not put everyone on the same footing. I very much agree with Mr Gijs van Dijk. I agree with him on the second point. That is in line with what Mrs Van Brenk said and was about the intermediate desks. That's what we saw in the WW fraud in October. The focus is on mapping intermediate desks and tackling malicious intermediate desks. They make a profit model of these schemes. The individual employee does not develop such a earning model. It's really done by middlemen. Enforcement is also largely aimed at mapping the intermediaries and separating the bona fide and the malicious intermediaries, so that the malicious intermediaries can be dealt with and fined.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-2.u44	As the SGP looks at Europe, we say: cooperation is fine, but not a superstate. And here you can see that Europe is just playing superstate. In this respect, we must do everything we can to stop it from happening in the next few days. My question to the Minister is as follows. What if it doesn't stop now? Then as far as we're concerned, you just shouldn't do it. How does the Minister view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-2.u45	Um...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-2.u46	That's atypical of the SGP, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-2.u47	Yeah, exactly. This question surprises me, however, from a normal legal party such as the SGP. Mr Stoffer of the SGP is actually saying that we are not implementing the laws and regulations. I'm not used to that from the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-2.u48	To correct...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-2.u49	Tell me, Mr. Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-2.u50	That's not what I'm asking. You shouldn't be doing it as far as we're concerned. But my question is: how does the Minister view this? I'm not saying you don't have to. A little clarity on my question, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-2.u51	Then the same answer actually applies. Of course, the Chamber cannot expect me to act in violation of the law. I would find that very strange. Having said that, I am going to Mr Stoffer's first point. I strongly disagree with this direction. The Netherlands, the Dutch cabinet, opposes this extension of the export period. We've lobbied for that for a long time. At the same time, I would like to make one nuance in this whole debate. Over the last year and a half we have been able to achieve major breakthroughs in other areas. Think of the Detachment Directive, the Enforcement Directive and the Directive on carcinogenic substances. They would not have come if we had not had a decision-making process with qualitative majorities.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-2.u52	Mr Stoffer's question is very clear, and I think the answer is very clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-2.u53	Yes. You can't expect me not to enforce the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-2.u54	That's what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-2.u55	I have not heard the Minister's content about the proposals made by my colleague Wiersma to prevent benefit fraud and, in particular, benefit tourism and to protect the Dutch WW. My question to the Minister would be: is he prepared to respond to this in any case for next week's AA?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-2.u56	That's okay. That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-2.u57	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-2.u58	Then it is indeed about enforcement and the possibilities within the WW itself. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-26-tweedekamer-2.u59	Thank you.
