ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u1	We will continue with the debate on the General Financial Reviews. I'm gonna take a look at you guys before I suspended. Mr Sneller was still thinking a bit, but he was standing there. I think I promised Mr Slootweg that I would start with him. Mr. Slootweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u2	Promise?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u3	Yeah, just before the suspension. After that, you will also have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u4	That was, of course, some time ago, but thank you very much. The Minister replied very quickly to a number of other questions. One of the questions was about, I think, a very important point, also in my contribution, and that is the negative interest rate. I notice that a lot of people are worried about what happens to their savings. It was certainly not the Minister's intention to do that briefly, but I did feel that there was just a little too little urgency. Is it possible, at the time when the banks are being discussed about this negative interest rate, to look at this, for example, De Nederlandsche Bank can do what the effects are and to make an international comparison as well? Because we hear that more countries, like Germany and Belgium, are struggling with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u5	With all understanding for that, of course, I felt somewhat incited by you to hurry. That is why I chose the relatively fast route, which was mainly a reference to the debate we had last week. At that time, I had an extensive exchange of views with Mr Nijboer, and to a lesser extent with Mr Slootweg himself. I thought we had come to a few conclusions at the time. One is: this is indeed urgent. Two is: let us take one step in the right direction and ensure that I have the opportunity to discuss this with the banks, because I think we all see, or at least see the bulk of the Chamber, that on the one hand there are major disadvantages to a negative savings rate and on the other hand there are quite macho interventions on my part which have all kinds of negative consequences and potential precedents. I think that's two. I think three was exactly the international comparison Mr Slootweg asked for. I think Mrs Leijten asked for this, Mr Nijboer asked for it and others asked for it. I think that is a very sensible and sensible question, so I would also like to answer it. I also recalled yesterday in the Ministry that this really deserves urgent attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u6	Then I'd also like to get some kind of timeline from the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u7	Is it okay, because I don't know what is planned and what isn't planned, that I will let the Chamber know by letter by the end of next week when I think I will come back to this in substance?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u8	I wanted to come back to the euro, because we had such a nice exchange of views for lunch and shared the general problem of the euro with the Minister of Finance. Where exactly does he think different from me? I do not follow exactly where we differ in our analysis. Does the Minister of Finance agree with me that, in principle, you should have an equal cycle of economic activity within an area where you have a single currency, or does he think that it does not matter whether there is a high and low economy at the same time in one area where there is a single currency?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u9	We do not escape the question and the remarks made by Mr Baudet, because my strong suspicion, also on the basis of the exchange of views from the past, is that we do indeed think differently about the added value of the euro as a matter of principle. That's one. Two. I do believe that, if we had known what we know now, we would never have started the euro under the conditions of 2002. Then we would have liked to take care of a number of things that we have learned from damage and shame since then.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u10	What things?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u11	Three. I come to the last part of Mr Baudet's question and what he says about the business cycle. Look at the United States of America. There you see that the a is not necessarily necessary and b is not necessarily the case either. The interesting thing about America is that, for example, things like the capital market union, along with all kinds of other positive effects, also have a clear positive effect on the stabilisation of the economy, because when one state is in recession, other states are able to cope with it. By "state," I mean one of 50 states of the United States of America.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u12	I would like to come back to the previous point: what things should we have known? Finally, I would like to return to my original point that a parliamentary survey should be carried out on the introduction of the euro, the biggest financial scandal in our history. But about the United States: that is interesting, because it does not recognise two fundamental differences between the euro area and the US. Firstly, the central government in the United States spends about 30% of the total US budget. In doing so, it can make investments to compensate for low growth and slow down high growth. So the central state, which is there in America but not in the EU, can steer that. Secondly, there are huge migratory flows, because they...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u13	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u14	... speak the same language. That is not possible in Europe, and that is precisely why we have always said that a United States of Europe is a necessary condition for the euro to work in the long term. But that...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u15	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u16	...we don't want to. Everyone always said "there will never be a federal state, the euro is...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u17	And what's the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u18	... only a means of payment." So it doesn't seem to be true, and that's what you're betraying, because you're saying "we need to look more like the US."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u19	No, no. Mr Baudet is again using one of his classic debate tricks. He asked me a question about the business cycle and asked whether, in monetary union, different areas could be... That was his question. His question was: could it be that different geographic components of the currency union are at another point in the cycle, yes or no? That was his question. My answer was, referring to the United States of America: yes, that is indeed possible. What is Mr Baudet doing? He is using this answer to get back on one of his favourite issues, namely the euro and what should or should not happen in Europe. I am aware of his intention to organise a parliamentary survey on this subject. That's up to Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u20	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u21	But the point remains. Of course, you can have different cycles, namely a high economy in northern Europe and a low economy in southern Europe; that is what we now have. Only then will you never be able to pursue a monetary policy that is good for both the region with high economic growth and the region with low economic growth. So you will always have a suboptimal monetary policy. In short, that is a monetary policy that is bad for everyone. One size fits no one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u22	I'm getting the impression... We started this because Mr Baudet wanted to sing along with his views on the President of De Nederlandsche Bank. I know many of Mr Baudet's reflections from his book on Europe. The cabinet and I personally have a fundamentally different view of this. I do not think that this interruption is a good time to break up this debate in all its finesses.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u23	Then I'm going to... No. Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u24	It is about expected interest rate developments. That's how we got to this. Because Klaas Knot said "I had expected that interest rate to stay so low for so long," I concluded that he would not understand the euro. The whole point of the euro is that the North has to pay for the South for eternity, and that's what it's going to do by turning on the ECB's money press.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u25	But you already said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u26	As a result, interest rates are low and as a result, interest rates will always remain low as long as we are in the euro area.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u27	That is also what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u28	So if you think that interest rate is going to rise again, you are either ignorant or a very cynical eurofederalist.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u29	This is something that deserves to be borne in mind because of the factually incorrect assumptions contained in Mr Baudet's speech. The situation of low interest rates is primarily driven by what is happening in the world for a long time. I have often exchanged this with the Chamber, and I believe that this is widely recognised, including in the Chamber and also by economists. That's one. That is by far the most important cause of long-term low interest rates. See what's going on in Japan. See what's going on in the United States. But also see how low interest rates are in Europe, such as in a country where the Bank of England is in charge, or in a country like Switzerland, Denmark or Sweden. The ECB certainly has something to do with the low interest rate. I've never denied that either. But the main driver of that low interest rate is just what's going on macroeconomically. I would also suggest to Mr Baudet to study that again, because it is a misconception to pretend that this is only because of the ECB.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u30	We really disagree on this. Anyway, we'll do that another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u31	Fine. Then I'm going to see Mr. Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u32	I can recommend the hearing we had on this last week. Four hours of listening pleasure, I say to Mr Baudet. My question was about one of the other things in the block, namely Air France-KLM. The Minister said that almost a bad negotiator made, while he himself returned to Paris after he had travelled, with a joint mission to reach conclusions on the points he himself addressed before the end of June. My question then is: why was the ambition to get out at the end of June? That's how he rushed himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u33	I always want to be as fast as possible, but also as slow as possible. Your question, but I also think that Mr Van Otterloo and others', was: did it make any sense? According to my observation, that is my own perception based on the conversations I have with the company and the French government, it really is more than a gradual difference. There's no other way. It can only be that this matters for the balance of power and for the question of who is responsible for that company. Two. In one of his farewell interviews, the chairman of the Supervisory Board of KLM, for example, who left, made it quite explicit that he directly suffered the consequences. I think it's very important that we do that job. It is about governance, the state guarantees and a number of other issues. But on both sides there are several ministers involved, those of finance and those of infrastructure. The company is involved in this. You could say that two parts of the company are also involved. A very broad and large board of Commissioners is also involved. So it does take a little more time than was perhaps estimated at the time, but I think by far the most important thing is that something comes out of that which does justice to our desire to achieve total equality. I think that's much more important than asking whether it's a month earlier or later. Members of Parliament may find what they want, but I would like to say to the Chamber once again that the conclusion that Dutch interests would be under pressure because that paper is not yet available would be a really wrong conclusion. Mr Sneller does not draw that conclusion, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u34	I have indeed been more interested in the exit strategy than in the exit interviews so far. So I will read it, but it was the minister himself who mentioned it at the end of June. Now he says that the results are paramount, but such a joint press statement naturally raises expectations about the deadline. We were also alarmed by the additional signals of interference from the French state when the price dropped and when there were rumours of an attempt to take over, which suggested the opposite direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u35	Yes, of course. I've been too optimistic about a term before. When it's February, June seems a long way away. When it's the end of May, you think, "Hey, it's almost time again." That's part of the reality. It is also part of the reality that I had the necessary work to do. My French colleague has a lot of very important things on his plate. He also has all kinds of other dossiers relating to the other French State participations. And then there is the company, which, of course, has something to do with this. In this tripartite cooperation, this simply seems to take a little more time. I do not think that is a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u36	I would nevertheless like to comment on the ECB and Klaas Knot. I very much resent this Minister and also Klaas Knot that there is someone playing Russian roulette with our prosperity. It reduces interest rates in such a way that our savings will evaporate, because that is what the ECB is doing, and it is also waving our credit card in Italy, because it has now bought 2,500 billion in waste paper from Italy, Spain and Greece and is on the balance sheet. We know they're never gonna pay that back. So we'll be able to pay for that later. If someone does that, like the ECB, and if someone is man enough to say he doesn't agree with that, then this minister doesn't say anything at all, but Klaas Knot says on the website and in a letter at least that he doesn't agree with this and that this is playing Russian roulette with our prosperity; that's what he says in so many words, it's not so weird that I say: what are you doing at that club? Then get out, like Sabine Lautenschläger and Jürgen Stark. Hit that fist on the table and say, "We're not going through this."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u37	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u38	But what does that same Klaas Knot do? He is here in the Netherlands explaining that he does not represent the Dutch interests in the ECB...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u39	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u40	... and it is defending the ECB's policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u41	Mr. Tony van Dijck...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u42	Someone who does that is hypocritical and has to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u43	You've said this a few times.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u44	In any case, I note that on the part of the PVV Group, the appreciation of the President of De Nederlandsche Bank seems to increase slightly. That would be inversely proportional to the valuation that I have in mind. I will think about that further, but for now very seriously. I also said last week in the debate with Mr Van Dijck's group colleague, Mr Mulder, that it is the right of the President of De Nederlandsche Bank, as part of the ECB, to find some of the bank's policy in his capacity, including in the public square. I would stress that it is a very good thing that politicians, finance ministers, do not, as was the case between 60 and 70 years ago, actively interfere with the bank's policy. That is what we have not wanted in the Netherlands in the last few decades in which we had the guilder. That is something we were opposed to when the euro came. It's a bridge we really shouldn't cross as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u45	We are all sitting here, I assume, including this minister, for the sake of the Dutch interest? Surely no one is here for the interest of the ECB or of the Italians or of the Greeks? That goes for no one in this house. But what that ECB does is against the Dutch interest. That low interest rate is against the pension funds, which are underwater. That low interest rate is bad. Think of the debt buy-back programme in Italy, which has already been mentioned in Italy: we are not going to pay it back. That's gonna be on our plate. Then this minister isn't gonna look away from something like that, is he? I don't understand. Are you here for the interest of the Netherlands or for the interest of Europe? Honestly!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u46	This discussion was held in detail last week in a general discussion on the ECB. So it's repeated here. You may respond briefly to this and then this discussion is actually a bit over.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u47	I would like to refer Mr Van Dijck to my previous reply and to my reply last week.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u48	Mr Azarkan also has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u49	I had asked in my plenary speech yesterday whether research is being carried out and whether multiannual estimates are being made on the basis of what low interest rates mean, because they have a huge impact on savings rates, but also on our pensions and perhaps on the labour market. I'm genuinely curious about that. I also asked Mr Klaas Knot in a round table. He actually indicated that it's complex, just like this minister does. I listened to that remotely this morning. It's got pluses and minuses on it. I understand that, too. If you have a mortgage, you've seen your monthly amount halve in recent years. So there are certain advantages to it. You can borrow cheap money for our entrepreneurs. However, I am curious to see how this will affect us if we have ten, fifteen or perhaps twenty years of low interest rates à la Japan. What's the impact of that in width? Is the Minister prepared to have an extensive investigation into this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u50	I sincerely believe that Mr Azarkan is asking for something sensible here, because we all see that the very substantial change and the reduction in interest rates over the last ten or twenty years has repercussions on all kinds of policy areas. I have, of course, already given an initial consideration to this in the Millions Note, partly at the request of the Chamber. I've been working on that myself for a long time. I would very much like to promise Mr Azarkan and the rest of the Chamber to see if we can further broaden that and possibly deepen it. I do not know if there are many new things that come out of it compared to the summary contained in the Millions Note, but I am quite willing to look at it. I would like to buy Mr Azarkan time with regard to the scope and the deadline. I'd also like to see who that should be with. For example, I feel a very clear connection with the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment in one of the dossiers, and I also see what we are discussing here about pensions, but I have a positive attitude. Let me give the Chamber a letter in the next few weeks to see how I could then implement this commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u51	Fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u52	There's a lot of other subjects in the tray. I have two topics. The Minister had a question for me about Rabobank and the agricultural sector. He was wondering what I was talking about. This has to do sideways with the PAS, but the urgency comes from there. The Rabobank holds 85% of the market for agricultural financing, including intensive livestock farming. I have a question for the Minister, but actually to De Nederlandsche Bank, so it has to be through the Minister of Finance. How is this risk management at Rabobank actually regulated and how is it supervised by De Nederlandsche Bank? In particular, I am asking this because De Nederlandsche Bank is becoming increasingly critical when it comes to environmental and climate risks. I'd like to have an insight into that. I believe that I should ask this question through the Minister to De Nederlandsche Bank.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u53	I have to take a step-by-step look at what can and cannot be done. For the record, I have not received any signals that there would be a pressing problem here. Of course, something like this will be double-checked for a debate like this. Mr Snels obviously has a different view, so I would like to double-check that. By the way, I really want to stick to "shoemaker, stick to your read." So I would like to do an inventory, but I also want to avoid going into things that are really at De Nederlandsche Bank, or which are not only at De Nederlandsche Bank but which DNB does consider to be confidential. So with that clause, I can promise that I will return to the subject, but how much wealth is hidden in that letter I dare not go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u54	I understand that about this supervisory confidential information, especially since it is probably just Rabobank, but it was a predecessor of this minister who said in 2008 that there is nothing wrong with our banks. You might think that there is a systemic risk or concentration risk, and I would like to hear more about this from De Nederlandsche Bank through the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u55	With all these clauses, with the question of whether there is a problem at all and, if so, who, I am going to do it that way if I can content Mr Snels with them. Now that Mr Snels is standing here, I will immediately answer another question from him, because I have left a number of questions at the speed. The windfall gains in the wage and price adjustment are estimated through the reference system based on the CPB figures. I don't think that's gonna surprise you. The actual development is determined by the spring note and then there are no coincidences or disappointments that we then have to correct again in the expenditure framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u56	Thank you for these answers. I knew this system, but if you look at the background of the system, you can see that in the starting note an estimate has been made of wage and price developments and that we now have a cumulative windfall of 12 billion, which is because wages in the market sector are not rising sharply enough. We are all concerned about this, and at the same time we know that all those teachers, police officers and military personnel have been on the zero line in a row. Then it is very painful that because wages in the market sector are lagging behind, wages in the collective sector and the public sector cannot rise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u57	Quite apart from what could be said about this, I see from Mr Snels's face that he would be able to imagine it in his own right. I would like to solve it here, also because I do understand some of the thought behind the question, because I hope again for the listening ear of the Study Group on Budgets. I don't see how we can organize anything else together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u58	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u59	The Study Group on Budgets seems obvious to me, but in this same system it is always the discretion of the Minister of Finance to see what might be possible in the spring paper. Perhaps the Minister of Finance can give a little more background to what has actually happened in the public and market sectors in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u60	Yes. I will. That will be in the debate on the Spring paper. By the way, this is going to be a special round when I see what has been put on the board and what I have to solve with colleagues in the cabinet. But I can certainly keep this promise. I had a few final points. I thought, since you gave me time, I'd like to try to solve it right away. For example, I owed an answer to Mr Van Otterloo, referring to the second deadline. He asked about the energy consumption of the elderly and the purchasing power plates. The simple answer is that the Cabinet and the Planning Bureau, which is the latter, do not actually use separate energy consumption for the elderly, so I cannot indicate a distribution or a more detailed explanation of this either. But I did want to check, because Mr Van Otterloo was absolutely right; that question was still lying. I still have a few specific things. I would like to thank the Chamber very much for all the comments that have been made, in particular the two Members who have also quoted the first and probably also the last sermon that has spoken in my life. That sermon was quite an exciting moment, because just a little chatting around is a bit easier than standing on a pulpit. But thank you for that. I would like to thank Mr Van Raan very much for the beautiful book I am keeping up here, with a rather complicated task for posterity. Because to what extent you pass on misery in the umpteenth generation of grandchildren, who have to get there first, have been given a very complicated work assignment here. But I will make sure that it is properly recorded so that at least another President can check how it lands. I would like to thank Mr Van Raan sincerely for that. I found it extremely thoughtful and witty. I would also like to thank the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance for its comments and for its positive attitude towards everything that exists in terms of tax plan and budgetary laws. Mr. Chairman. Then I think I have come to the end of my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u61	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Secretary of State for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u62	Mr. Chairman. As last year and as the Minister said, it is a great pleasure for me to be here today and to be able to answer all your questions. As the Minister has just said, I will be particularly lucky to defend the fiscal intentions. There are a number of other elements that were mentioned in the first part of the debate, which I would like to add to, for example, specific measures. The most important thing is that most tax measures simply return to the Tax Plan. This is also a long debate that we are going to have here in the coming months about all the different tax plans and measures. I look forward to it. As you know, I usually have a block layout that goes past my five spearheads. But the coincidence is that this time only three of the five spearheads have been asked. Now I could have done my best to do my messaging in four and five, but let's just not do that because we've been sitting here for quite a few hours. So I'm about to start tackling tax avoidance and evasion. A second block will deal with the locational environment and the burden on business. The third block will deal with lower labour costs. Then I'll bring box 3, which doesn't come entirely under labour charges but belongs in it. And then I have a fourth block; that's what I call other. These include the City and Province Fund, the undermining issues that came along, the landlord's tax and also the CO border tax that has been requested. If you agree, Mr President, I would like to start with the first block. They're short cubes, I say. I hope that helps. Let me start with the approach to tax avoidance and evasion, one of my main priorities, and also of the cabinet, which we really want to do something about. I always start by saying that we are an open economy with a very international orientation. We're still gonna need it. Avoiding double taxation has therefore always been one of the most important elements of our system. But there is also a downside to it, namely that people unintentionally abuse these schemes and try to avoid tax. I have already described this as detrimental to tax morals, to the international standing of the Netherlands and thus also to the Dutch climate of establishment. So tackling tax avoidance is an important priority and that also helps my other priority, which is to ensure that we have a good locational environment. Last year we took several measures to this end. This year we will continue with that. ATAD 2 is an important legislative proposal, with which we try to tackle companies that abuse structures by qualifying and exploiting differences. It's still coming to the room. We also want to put an end to the use of our system when it comes to transit operations to low-tax countries, the so-called conditional withholding tax on interest rates and royalties. At the same time, we are also trying to take a number of important steps to protect and broaden the tax base. The minister already mentioned it. Yes, it is true that tariffs go down, but at the same time we also ensure that the company base is further widened. Let me start with the first thing that matters. In particular, I would like to thank Mr Snels and his co-initiativeers, Mr Nijboer and Mrs Leijten, for the start of the debate on the scope of one of the important arrangements we had, namely the liquidation scheme and also the strike loss scheme. In the Millions note and in the letter to the Tax Plan, the cabinet wanted to express its appreciation of these efforts, because the initiators really took a very important step by picking it up, working out it and moving it forward with the Treasury officials. So I would like to thank them for that. I would like to say to Mr Snels that I appreciate that he appreciated that cooperation from our official support. I am grateful to him for that. The cabinet also agrees with the initiators that the winding-up and the loss of the strike is too large in parts. For this reason, the Cabinet considers it desirable, as much as it does, to limit the scope of this arrangement. The cabinet will use the draft initiative proposal as a starting point as far as possible in the further development of the measure. Apart from the fact that we are in the process of doing so, at the request of your own Chamber, we are also in the process of thinking further about the taxation of multinationals. We have set up an external committee with internal and external experts, who are trying to raise other elements besides this. This is related to tackling tax avoidance. I thought it was an important moment to mention it, because I do not think it is common practice for the government to adopt an initiative legislative proposal from the opposition in this way. Then I will quickly move on to the second block, namely the location climate. I just said a few words about that. Even by tackling tax avoidance, I think I'm trying to contribute to an attractive Dutch locational climate. As the Minister has just said and we have often discussed it in the Chamber, it is not the case that these two things do not go well together. Moreover, it is not the case that, in the case of the establishment environment, it is only tax legislation. It is about a lot of other factors; Mr Nijboer was right to say so. But we cannot completely deny that tax rules can also contribute to making a country attractive or unattractive to actively behave as a company. That is one of the reasons why the cabinet had chosen the strategy to allow tariff reductions and the broadening of the basis to go hand in hand. We have just been talking about the normal rate. This is now called the high rate, but we actually had a normal rate of vpb and an SME rate for small entrepreneurs. It is true that we are going down for that higher rate, for profits above two tonnes, but not as much as we had previously intended. For this Tax Plan, the idea was that we would end at 20.5%. That's going to be 21.7%. On balance, the Minister also made that clear already.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That was already in the basic path with a little less than 4 billion and there is another 1.2 or 1.3 round. It is true, therefore, that, on balance, this cabinet increases the burden on business, and this increase has been mainly used to reduce the burden on citizens. In that, I think, a clear choice was made in the Millions Note. You might wonder how far you want to go in there. The European average is about 21%. We are going to come structuralally to 21.7%. In the previous discussions we had, it was said that the Netherlands does not want to participate in the race to the bottom, but it does want to remain attractive. I think that we are in that balance now in a place where we belong, because we also have many other things on offer and not just a low rate. The cabinet also attaches great importance to entrepreneurship in the broad sense. That is not what I am trying to do either. Everything starts with their entrepreneurial spirit and with their commitment, their growth and also the tax revenue, and therefore all the measures and all the beautiful things that we as a government can do with them. It is important, however, that we pay particular attention to SMEs. That is precisely the reason why the reduction in the vpb rate is going to continue below 200,000. In fact, before the Tax Plan we thought it would end at 16.5%, but it will end at 15%, which is 1% lower than we intended in the coalition agreement. In addition, an envelope of 100 million has been made available to SMEs. We have said that you can fill that out yourself and help us think about what is best to do. They have chosen to broaden the working cost regime. We did. This is exactly how we try to be the small entrepreneur of service. Mr. Chairman. I still have a specific question I can answer, but maybe it's generally...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u63	Is that Mr. Tony van Dijck's question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u64	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u65	We had just asked the Minister why the corporation tax on multinationals should actually be reduced. I just looked up what companies actually make in the Netherlands during the break. Turns out they book year in, year out of record profits. Last year, that was 220 billion gross profits, for taxes. If profits are made at 220 billion, why is it necessary to reduce the tax on profits for multinationals? Maybe you do have an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u66	Yes, we have, because we have had this discussion about six times before. It's not like nothing happens besides lowering those rates. We are also broadening the base, and this broadening of the base ultimately also affects the profit position of these companies. Both large and small companies broaden with more than what those rates go down. On balance, therefore, we increase the burden on business and do not reduce it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u67	It's not about whether it's an increase on balance. It's about time it became a burden on business! I mean, they've been kept out of the wind for 20, 30 years, and now there's actually a load swirl coming for them. But these companies are still laughing at the 220 billion they can contribute to gross profits every year. My other question is, when I look at the vpb revenues, they're only 25 billion. That's not 20% or 25%, that's 12%. How is that possible? They make 220 billion profits and you only raise 25 billion. You collect 50% from the citizens and you collect 12% from the companies. That's not fair, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u68	I think there's a lot of things going on here. I do not recognize Mr Van Dijk's profits, but it may well be that, for example, those of the multinationals are the profits they make all over the world and that some of those profits are not collected by the Dutch tax authorities, but by a foreign tax authorities. Which is also fine. If you want to be active in the Philippines, Thailand or Australia as a Dutch company, it is good that you make a profit and pay a profit tax on it. This is about the part we're picking up. Last year, during the General Financial Reviews, I spoke a little more about this. This was about the development of, for example, the vpb as a percentage of GDP, or even more interesting as a percentage of the total tax revenue we have. Then you can see that that is a very neat line and that it is not the case that suddenly much more or less is paid for by broadening the bases or lowering the rates. In fact, that is quite logical in terms of cyclical growth or decline, and we now recognise that. These percentages are fairly stable and not exceptional either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u69	It's a neat line. It has indeed been a neat line for 30 years, but that line runs just a bit too low. If you raise 25 billion from the companies and I don't know from my head how many of the employees, that's out of proportion. It should be a little fifty-fifty, like the energy bills. In addition, we say that the burden should be about fifty-fifty in society. That's not gonna happen. The companies are left alone, the money fluffs against the plinths: 220 billion, a CBS figure about non-financial corporations. The banks aren't one of them. They pay 25 billion to the treasury for everything we do for them in education, in infra and you name it. That's a dime! The line may run even, but the line runs too low.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u70	Anyway... It is a political weighting where that line must lie. My conclusion is that, on balance, this cabinet increases the burden on business, taking particular account of the position of the small businessman and trying to reduce the burden there, and giving back to the citizen a large part of the burden raised by business. I fully support this political choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u71	Very briefly about the question Snels asked the Minister. What is the purpose of the cabinet in reducing the high rate of profit tax? What purpose do you want to achieve?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u72	I said that I believe in a system in which we organise taxation in such a way that we can have rates relatively low and avoid the number of bells and bells as much as possible. I am in favour of a system in which we are broadening the basis, so without all kinds of horns and bells where you do not have to pay taxes on a particular profit. That was actually the system of 20, 30 years ago, in which each country did its best to undermine the tax base with tricks and jokes. I'm against that. I prefer that the effective pressure for the companies remains about the same, I can live well with that. You have to choose the distribution wherever you want, but you have to do it by broadening the base and by lowering the rate. Each economist will say that this is the logical choice if you want profit to be taxed fairly without taking each other's bases.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u73	Is the purpose of a system which the Secretary of State likes? I would rather think of an objective like more employment that we have talked about, or more investment in research and development. I want to be able to check in one or two years to see if that target has been achieved at all. The goal of another system is achieved if we decorate it in the same way. I would like to know what purpose this cabinet is pursuing in the economy with the reduction of this tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u74	Of course, there's still some behind the goal I have and that I qualified just as pleasant. For example, there is a need to be active and entrepreneurial in the Netherlands. And that we in the Netherlands want a fair distribution between what small and large companies pay, or what an internationally oriented company and what a national baker pays on the corner; that there is a fair distribution between what the citizen pays and what the business pays. But I also realize that the opinion in the Chamber on this will be different from left to right. In the coalition agreement, we have chosen certain lines. This means that we want to reduce the burden on citizens, with particular focus on middle income, especially in this Tax Plan. In addition, we have a division between business, big or small, where you can not undermine your base based on horns and bubbles, but in which everyone can benefit from a low effective tax burden. I think that's important.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u75	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u76	Finally. That is a conviction of the Secretary of State, a conviction I do not have. Wouldn't it be wise to keep an eye on that? Let me summarize it as entrepreneurship; the Secretary of State wants more entrepreneurship in the Netherlands. Let's go keep an eye on that. Is it not conceivable, then, that the tax on profits will go back to 25% at some point if it has not achieved that goal?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u77	It seems to me to be a curious elasticity, so to speak, that if we increased the Vpb there would be more entrepreneurship. Normally, in the economy, you do what you're encouraged to do. If profit is discouraged, suppose that we would have a profit tax of 80%, I know one thing for sure: the amount of profit made in the Netherlands by entrepreneurs will melt like snow in front of the sun. This doesn't seem like a good turn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u78	I hear the Secretary of State say, "I'm totally in favour of a tax system with reduced rates and no bells and whistles." That's very nice, but we're talking about the Vpb here. What about income tax?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u79	Actually, I'm not much different. For income tax, too, I think it is important that we have a system that is not only feasible for my own tax administration, but is also well understood by the citizen. We know that as the system is better understood by the taxpayer, whether it is a company or a citizen, compliance with payment is also greater. You'll see that companies and citizens don't mind paying taxes at all, as long as they feel it's a fair tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u80	However, we will continue to pump up the tax rebate next year and the tax system will again become a little more unfair and complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u81	I'm formulating a starting point, I think it's really important, for example, around one's own house, because that's typically one of those terrains where I think we've really made it too hard for ourselves. I'm gonna come up with that to my building block note. I really hope that all the thinking that we have from economists and fiscalists in the Netherlands, both within the Empire and beyond, and from advisors, industry and professors, will lead to advice to make it simpler. Apart from the fact that we have an objective to make it simpler, we sometimes have other objectives, for example, that we want a partner to work or that the least-earning in a relationship also gives his labour force commitment to the labour market. For example, there are all kinds of other things that we consider important. There will be a few more examples to the questions later. Sometimes you choose something else besides simplicity. I stand by the principle of keeping it simple.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u82	I hope to see a lot of this principle in the building block note next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u83	Me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u84	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u85	Then there is another question from Mrs De Vries about the box 2 tariff. She said: now that we're actually postponing the Vpb cut, why don't we do it with the box 2 fare? I understand that question very well, because we have often talked about global balance; that it should not really matter in what form you are an entrepreneur or want to make a profit and participate in the economy. There must be about a balance between what you ultimately pay for taxes. If you look at how this is going to be done, and you see a breakdown between an employee, an ib entrepreneur, a dga with a profit of up to two tons and a dga with a profit of over two tons, you see in the system that we are now proposing that, in a structural situation, an employee will pay, for example, 49.5% tax and an ib entrepreneur 44.3%. We're talking about the box 2 part...... with a profit of less than two tons is only 37.9% tax and a dga with a profit of more than two tons is 42.8%. In short, you can see that the rate of tax in the system that we have now designed, at a dga, and certainly a small dga, but even a dga with a lot of profit, which is by the way only 10% of all dga's are still under an ib entrepreneur and also under an employee. We have the idea that we have managed to achieve a balanced outcome if you look at the total, and it is important to keep looking at the global balance. I think I see an intervention.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u86	Yes, Mrs. Aukje de Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u87	The Secretary of State is now reading a bunch of figures. I would like to believe that they are all correct, but I think there is still a question above. It has been decided to postpone the Vpb reduction for a year. That's related to how we'd raise box 2. If you delay one thing, isn't it reasonable for you to postpone the other? I can't explain it very well. The Secretary of State seems to be able to do it with a bunch of figures, but can he also explain it to a box 2 entrepreneur?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u88	Sure. 90% of the box 2 entrepreneurs have a profit below two tons. This entrepreneur saw his tax rate last year at 39.3%. I use figures, even though Mrs De Vries finds that annoying, but that helps to explain it. This percentage is going to be 38.2%. This entrepreneur will also see his tax burden cut for next year. That was also an objective we had. An Ib entrepreneur gains less percent than an Ib entrepreneur in box 2. I think that, on balance, this overall balance, due to the adjustment we have now proposed, is very reasonable, not only for 2020 and 2021, but also for structural reasons.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u89	I do not think I can persuade the Secretary of State to look beyond the figures. "The global balance" sounds very nice, of course, but if you use it on one side and so say it has to be one up if you lower the Vpb, then you're going to postpone it and say you don't do the other again. I find that very complicated to explain. The Secretary of State can mention a lot of figures and I am sure that a lot will benefit from them, which we are very much in favour of and which we therefore find fantastic, but I find it difficult to explain to the remaining group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u90	Once again, I may like numbers a little more than Mrs De Vries, but 90% of those entrepreneurs benefit enormously from the fact that we are reducing the low VPb rate from 16.5% to 15%, which is a percentage point more than we promised them in the coalition agreement. They also have an advantage. You can always ask for more, but I really think it's a reasonable balance that we've come to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u91	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u92	Mr Bruins also made a good point about the change in the Vpb that we are implementing and the feeling that these Vpb rates should not be changed so often that the entrepreneur wonders what exactly he has for the government. As I have just said, a reliable government as a partner is extremely important for the establishment environment, so a government that does not change its policy too much every year. So I am taking that whole point over, because that is really important. I also really think that we should be careful not to use the VPB tariff as a kind of betting post in a burden-sharing discussion between citizens and businesses. I therefore fully agree with Mr Bruins on this point. When we look at what is happening here, we see that the direction is still good. Apart from the broadening of the basis, entrepreneurs see it go down a bit. In itself, that is the outcome of the calculation. If you're a fiscalist and advise your company, then those basics are technically complicated. You want to prepare for that. Of course, it's fun if the percentage is lower, but that's not what makes a government reliable or unreliable. So, on balance, I think the direction was clear, but I think the point he made is right. It is also what we always hear when we talk to entrepreneurs. It is very important to have a sort of steady policy towards companies. That advice, to put it bluntly, I really take it to heart. Then I come to my third block: the burden on labour including the part about box 3. I won't do exactly what we had earlier today. It should be clear that we consider these reductions to be important. We carry it through in a number of areas. I would like to mention the acceleration of the introduction of the two-wheel system and the increase in the general tax rebate and the reduction in working hours. There is also a small reform of the self-employed deduction to come. It goes down at 250 bucks a year. At the same time, the employment discount goes up with the multiple. I think they've already said something about that. Now I come to Mr Stoffer and the words 'frapper toujours', which remain applicable to one of the discussions that always remains topical and which he calls attention to: the one-earner and the fact that there is still a big difference between people who earn a certain amount on their own or those who earn the same amount. Mr Stoffer also knows what we have discussed more often, namely that we built an individual system in the 1970s. We have really chosen to do so, because we consider participation in employment and the independence of the partner to be important, even if the partnership comes to an end at some point for whatever reason. We know how important it is to continue to activate those people. At the same time, you have to take account of household income from time to time. The form in which you do that is important. When it comes to income support, for example in the form of supplements, we are indeed looking at household income. This sometimes means that we still have some connection differences, but looking at the form was rightly advised by the Van Dijkhuizen Committee. We've taken over that, too. Because of this individual system, which we are also making progressive, people who earn an income together pay more taxes on it than people who earn that income on their own. The political weighting of this will be different for everyone. I also know how important it is and I agree with Mr Stoffer that it is sometimes difficult to explain in an individual case, but that is part of the choice of the total. This cabinet has taken it really seriously, as I said earlier, because we saw the difference between one and two earners in recent years actually constantly increasing. The aim of the cabinet was not to increase that difference further. To this end, we have taken a number of measures, such as the accelerated introduction of the dual-disk system, which helps to do so, but also to increase the child-related budget. These measures reduce the difference between one and two earners. I really think we've taken some steps. I also understand that Mr Stoffer would like to go a little further. He was paying attention, by the way. If you look at the exact images of the purchasing power estimates, we say: don't do that too precisely, because it's not a general truth. You see 2.3 versus 2.2. There's a small difference. We didn't manage to clean that up. The government's objective of not making the difference continue to exist. Mr. Sneller asked... sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u93	I'd like you to finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u94	Yes, but then I come to a new subject and I think Mr Stoffer has something to say about this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u95	Is that right, Mr. Stoffer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u96	The Secretary of State has a forward-looking view in that regard. It's true, Mr. Chairman. We need to turn the individual tax system from the 1970s into something of this century. We're not gonna agree on that, so I'm not gonna sit around and complain about that. That'll come back later. Let's go see that little mint. It's a plus, but a slightly larger gap between one and two earners. Not only me, but also Mr Bruins has asked whether this is really going to be reversed next year. My question is whether the Secretary of State will undertake to make up for the lack of this year next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u97	Of course, I can't make that promise. That would be a glass ball. I hope we can get back together next year with pluses, but that's really something I can't do right now. I do say, however, that I have made that promise earlier, and that is the commitment of the cabinet not to allow these differences to arise. That will be another starting point next year, when it comes to the August decision-making process, and I am sure that if this coalition is still as it is, that will be told to me again by Mr Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u98	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u99	Mr Sneller said on another point that he would not mind at all if we made work even more rewarding. I get that. There is, of course, a difference in outcomes between the active and the inactive. We have tried very hard in the August decision-making to show that we think that is important. You can see that in the results below the line. The ambition to make work pay during the last two years of our cabinet period, so that people who experience it feel it, we will continue to apply it in full. Thank you for that call and the support for it. Mr Bruins had a number of questions about the building blocks in this block. He said: it is good that the marginal pressure has been looked at; a lot of numbers, but we would still have some suggestions to pass on variants. For example, he mentioned shifting the tax on labour to a home tax or lowering supplements in exchange for a higher benefit or a higher minimum wage. There are a number of suggestions. Other Members of Parliament have also made suggestions in the past. We have set up a nice path for this, which is not politically directed, but rather administratively directed, so that we can bring as many facts to the story as possible. Nevertheless, I will say that these are the questions of life and that it would be nice to have more information on that storyline. They will also listen in. I will make sure that these suggestions are passed on. By the way, we are still expecting the building block note at the beginning of 2020. So that's pretty quick. They're very large trajectories. We'll take these suggestions with us. Mr Van Otterloo had a question about box 3. When I paraphrase it, he says it's nice that there are plans to do something for the savers in 2022, but it's all taking so long; why can't you do something now, for example increasing the tax rebates, exemptions or something else? In itself, I support the wish that lies behind it, especially the wish that was about the saver. That is what Mr Van Otterloo meant, I think. That's one of the reasons I suggested an adjustment in box 3. It is not legislation, but I have suggested some kind of adaptation, according to the lines that should be possible, especially taking into account the saver. If you want to do something in the current system, so if you really want to change it, you need a year of legislation. I assume that Mr Van Otterloo will be able to give his opinion on this too. The same will apply to the First Chamber. These are major structural changes, which we are going to make a difference between saving and investing, because this is really different in the way the returns are felt. Then we need another year for implementation. It sounds far away, but bringing a whole new system into force within a year, from legislation to implementation, is not very long. It's actually the fastest realistic scenario possible. At the moment you would already do something, for example a quick load relief in box 3, we know that the benefit of this is limited for the saver, because we cannot distinguish what is in box 3, save or invest. It would be a hugely costly and unfocused measure if, for example, we were to increase those exemptions now. That is why we have now made the choice not to do so, although, once again, I quite understand the underlying call. To give a sense of this: suppose that you would now increase your tax-free capital to a tonne of debt, which is a different system than we have, then it would already cost 640 million structurally per year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u100	I do not have the insight into everything in the toolbox of the Secretary of State for Finance, but I can imagine that we are looking for a creative opportunity. Otherwise, I will call for it in the second term. Two years is not that long for the legislative process in our view, but it is long for people. Two more years in a row, having to pay way too much for something that doesn't benefit you, is too long.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u101	I get the feeling. At the same time, I think that we must be extremely careful with the words 'creative solution' and 'legality'. If you want to do something, you have to do it on the basis of the law. I cannot ask my inspectors to say to random people: we find that annoying, we do something about that. You can't do that. I think it's important here that we try to distinguish between what kind of property you have. If people feel that they don't get interest on their assets and the IRS pretends they did, I totally agree with that feeling. I get that. We have to change that. But we can't say to 17 million Dutch people: come and visit us, then we'll talk about it. We really need to do that on the basis of a law and in the implementation. It needs to be automated. There's no other way. We just need time for that. I understand the wish. I often say that I would have preferred to have everything arranged with a magic wand tomorrow, but I really can't do that here. The only way to do something in the interim, for example, is to increase tax-free capacity. That's very unfocused. That probably goes mainly to those with a lot of investment income or, perhaps worse, people with a lot of loans who have a lot of money for that. They'll benefit the most from it. That's very expensive. I find 640 million a year for an unfocused measure too much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u102	I might agree with the Secretary of State, but I'm still looking for a solution. I am looking at the proposal that we have and on which we have to meet for the next two years. You can already see how much, by a limit of four tonnes, only on savings, there is a difference due to the low interest rate compared to the total capital return tax. That must be a signal that we are somehow looking for a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u103	I've indicated that I don't see it, except for the existing buttons. They are now so unfocused that I am not going to solve the feeling you are referring to. Then I have a very costly measure that the saver is not really facing at all. I get it. By the way, I would add that the flat-rate return on savings next year is very low; 0.09%. It's not that high. But because you are supposed to invest on a flat-rate basis in the legal system above a certain amount, you get the feeling that the tax authorities expect you to collect it when you don't have it. That is not a justified feeling, but it is the outcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u104	This is also the subject of a written round of questions, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u105	Several, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u106	The proposal that the Secretary of State is now making for 2022, is that the big reform of box 3?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u107	No. It is a major reform, but it is within the existing structures. One of the things that I have asked for, and I have mentioned this earlier in a debate in the Chamber, is that you should actually have the courage to look at a system outside the current three boxes, if you really want to look at what the tax on income and wealth is like. Then, by the way, how do you do that with your own property? It's just been put in those three boxes. I think it's wise to look at that. That's exactly one of those things. By the way, box 2 is also very much part of that. That is a box that is seen by many fiscalists and economists as a craft box. So these are really search terms that I have given to the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs to investigate, because I am sure that we will be discussing them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u108	At least that reassures me, because no matter how creative the Secretary of State's proposal was, I was not happy with it. I didn't think it was enough. But if the administrative committees simply have the room to really map both box 3 and box 2, the advance of power and the untaxed power building, then we do not necessarily have to introduce the Secretary of State's proposal by 2022, but perhaps a completely different system. It's possible. Then we also have a solution for increasing power inequality.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u109	That is indeed possible, because this committee is not going to decide, but is going to give us as much information as possible on the basis of which we can then take the decision in politics. I just didn't want to wait for that, because I don't know if that's gonna work out. I actually agreed with Mr Van Otterloo's idea. I just think we should start thinking about how we can do it differently than we did. Especially with the low interest rates we have at the moment, that is right. That's why I went forward. By the way, I really have some things to figure out. I would like to come straight to a question from Mr Stoffer, who asked: should we not be careful, for example, that the small investor is not affected by the measure? Yes, let me say in particular: we are going to look closely at which groups they are talking about. There are more groups that we want to look at, for example how things are with people with relatively small assets, but with a second cottage, with or without a loan. So we really want to see exactly what this proposed system is doing, whether it can pass our test and whether there are any adjustments possible. It was merely suggested that in what I propose the small investor would be the victim. I want to take that idea right away, because it's not. The difference between the rate of return that we now and later assume about investments remains about the same in itself. That's just a little bit different. For example, I did the math. The question of where the small investor ends is a matter of taste, but let us say that it would be a tonne. Suppose you have two tons of power, one ton of savings and one ton of investments. In the old system you paid €1,650,45 to be precise and in the new system €1,657. That's a difference of €12. Some people will say: I don't think a ton of investments is a small investor at all, that's quite a lot. I would just like to point out that these differences for investors will really not be that big. Where the difference can be large, and we will talk about it then, is with the investor who borrows a lot of money to invest. That's where the real differences are. Anyway, I got ahead of myself with that. I wanted to take that idea away, because it's not. Mr Stoffer also asked about alternative forms of financing. Could you do something like a green investment scheme around crowdfunding? Of course, it is a very sympathetic idea to make crowdfunding attractive. We'll bring those kinds of elements, too. At the same time, I must warn from the implementation practice that something like crowdfunding is not so easy to define. We were just talking about simpler systems. It is very complicated to define specific groups or types of funding each time within a box 3. I'd say we're gonna take a look and I'm gonna take this suggestion, but it's not easy just to put it in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u110	I'd still like to see how far you're going with answering the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u111	I have one more question in this block, and it belongs to Mr Sneller. I'll answer that. He touched something we've been talking about in the Chamber for a long time. He asked what my ambitions were about simplification, for example of the surcharge system. That's gonna hit a nerve. Your Chamber knows that I, as the performer of the surcharges, naturally have something to do with that. We are supposed to implement the law as well as possible. I have my own troubles with that and I have to deal with it myself. Back then, we built systems around surcharges. The intention was a few million max, but we now have more than 6 million households to deal with, actually because we can no longer reach the people in our ordinary system. This is also part of all discussions on tax rebates and other matters. We have a tax system that we know will not reach some people if we do not do anything extra to meet income. There's the cashing... There are all kinds of problems. The way of payment is set out with the best of intentions, so "how are we going to reach people?', But if you look closely at the system we have built, and I hear that actually wide in this Chamber there is really something to improve. I am of execution, I am not politically responsible for all fees. We do know we're getting an ibo Supplements, which is going to include two parts. One considers whether improvements can be made within the system to prevent not only abuse but also excessive intervention. Part two is just as important. That says: Suppose you would dare to think outside the boxes of the current system, what kind of system would you come out of? I'm very much in favour of that, because as an enforcer, I see how complicated the law we've made is. I will certainly be among those who think it is a good idea to continue to pursue a different system seriously, no matter how complicated it may be. That was the cube, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u112	Very nice that the Secretary of State says that he wants to look again for small investors to see what the effects are and so on. I'm really happy about that. With regard to crowdfunding, perhaps a small explanation. My question was put the other way around. It may be that it is going to hit small entrepreneurs and start-ups hugely. He's not sitting there on the investors' side. Banks haven't easily given more loans to small and start-ups for a long time. We all know that. If there are any more proposals and things may go a little bit wrong after that, we may also have to cover the risks. Actually, my question is: does the Secretary of State want to look at what this means for SMEs and start-ups? Because if this crowdfunding isn't an option anymore, then the investments will be gone soon and the innovation will be gone. So really a heartfelt plea here for the SME entrepreneur.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u113	I'll support that. In the Netherlands, we do have a special financing landscape in which we rely largely on banks. That's what I'm saying from my own IMF experience. In America and a lot of other countries, you have a lot more bodies that can also provide funding, whether through crowdfunding or through funding platforms. You can find anything you want. I don't think we should. But it is true that an entrepreneur in the Netherlands is quite dependent on banks for financing. My feeling is that there is also more and more social thinking about this and that there are also people who are trying to jump into that hole. I agree with you that if funding is difficult and an entrepreneur does not get it, we should see how we can improve it, especially in the current situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u114	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u115	I don't think the solution lies directly with the government or a tax facility, so to speak. Then I misunderstood Mr Stoffer. But the point he's making with that is, in fact, justified, I think. The dependency of banks should be reduced a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u116	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u117	Then I'll get to the last block, the other block. It's a couple of topics. Let me start with the questions surrounding the Municipal Fund. Mr Slootweg, Mr Sneller, Mr Nijboer and a number of other Members of Parliament had a question about this. First of all, let me say that these signals are taken seriously by the government and the government. I'm a co-fund manager myself, as it's called. So I've had regular discussions about this. We try to make agreements on this again and again with the IBP at the very beginning, so that it is clear what we have to do with each other. There are several discussions, which sometimes seem to be getting mixed up. On the one hand, we have the discussion about the unstable accelerations and the standardisation system, namely the short-term and the long-term, but sometimes we also have specific discussions about the deficits in youth aid and what that means for the municipalities, for example. Both the Empire and the municipalities of course benefit from stability and also from agreements that we mutually appreciate. That is why we have agreed to work with the VNG in the short term to see how we can achieve more stability by 2020 and 2021. This was also promised to your Chamber by the Prime Minister during the APB. I think you have also adopted a motion on this. That is what we are going to do together; so there is no wrongdoing about that, I think. This would be about adjustments within the system, but also for the longer term we will evaluate the whole standardisation system. The stability of financial relations should therefore be taken into account. As you know, we now have a staircase-on-strap systematiek. It was established with the co-governments, by the way. We have also said from the outset that the resources and ambitions were in balance. Not only did we say that, but our fellow governments also said that. When we look at the results, we see a growing Community Fund for many years. It's even growing substantially. At the end of this cabinet period, the Municipal Fund is about 2.3 billion more structurally than was assumed at the end of the previous cabinet. In the case of accres adjustments, it is true that you sometimes have a minus due to the step-on-step afsystematiek, but in the year 2020 and beyond, they are adjusted positively by the fact that the central government was a bit later with the start-up of expenditure. We've been talking about that for a while today. So it's less more in the years to 2019, but it's more in the year 2020 and beyond. Then we have the debate on the deficits in youth aid itself. We have also spoken extensively and with fellow governments for a long time, especially with the municipalities. In the end, we have also reached a solution in consultation with the UNG. We have made 1 billion available until 2021 for these additional costs. Because we are still not entirely sure whether this meets all our needs, we have also agreed to investigate a solution with the municipalities from 2022 onwards. In this way we will see if that will be enough for the future. Mr Slootweg and Mr Nijboer also asked about support in the social domain, for example. There's a lot of spending on that. What about the grip on it? Can we still be helpful in this? I think so, but it is also good to note that municipalities are, of course, ultimately responsible for getting control over their spending. That's what they really want. But we always keep the door open to municipalities that request support to see if we can't help. On the social domain, for example, a visitation committee has recently been set up in consultation with the VNG to try to learn from what is happening in a particular municipality. We will then see if we can help other municipalities that may not have been visited. We also agreed in the autumn to make the youth aid budget more structural after 2020. I also believe that cooperation and the problems we know are often shared. Then there is Mr Sneller's question about the scale-up discount. That is, to put it bluntly, actually a task of Rutte II. As a municipality grows larger and could achieve more economies of scale, this could also lead to lower costs. In the meantime, we don't send that way anymore. In fact, looking at what we have done since then, I try to point out that in the IBP those ambitions and budgets have exactly been aligned. This leads to a structural increase of EUR 2.3 billion. In doing so, we considered the previous discussion to be closed. Then there is the stability of the municipal finances, the relationship with the food we have. Once again, we recognise the importance of stable municipal and provincial finances. Also a wider local tax area is always part of our reflections. In this coalition agreement, as Mr Sneller knows, we have not managed to do so. At the same time, it is a broad living desire to do so. We can continue to discuss for a very long time whether this affects the overall level of the burden. No one knows. We have examples of this abroad and also in our own history. I have already read in Mr Rink's booklet that in 1906 it was decided to turn a large local tax area into a small local tax area, because the burdens got out of hand. I read that yesterday. I am not saying that 100 years later that is still the reality. It must be something of up-and-down, but the stability, reliability and how you manage this among yourselves are extremely important. We also agree with the VNG on this. That is why we now have a special administrative working party on local tax territory, in fact in preparation for, among other things, the tax mix discussion that we are going to have in the context of the building blocks, but also, of course, with a view to a subsequent formation, in which we may be able to agree on this. In addition, yes, it is a lot, Mr President, but I would like to point out that it is not the case that we do not take these problems seriously. In addition, we are going to see the fluctuations of "stairs up, down stairs" over time again. To this end, if we see something remarkable from this, we ask the Study Group on Budgets to comment on it as well. So I think we really have a number of lines that should all lead to: please don't surprise each other and let's agree that we recognize and see the way we do that. As far as the Council of State's opinion is concerned, I will leave it at that, because the Council of State said the same thing. We have also said that this is included in the Study Group on Budgets.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u118	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u119	I'm almost there. Mr Slootweg had a short question about undermining in relation to the Tax Administration. Mr Slootweg is absolutely right that detection capacity, for example through the FIOD, through the financial flows, is extremely important to tackle undermining. We often hear that from municipalities and we know that from our own experience. You can do that through the classic way of Justice and Security, but we know that financial flows can be very helpful to have patterns in view. So where the FIOD helps, you often see that we can achieve results faster. In the spring paper 2019, i.e. in the last Spring note, we also decided to provide more structural funding for this, namely EUR 29 million to tackle fraud, money laundering and undermining. This also leads to additional capacity in the FIOD. Mr Slootweg asked how much this was about. We make annual agreements with our partners on the number of hours to be spent per theme. The enforcement arrangement has agreed between 500 and 650 search requests and between 150 and 250 legal aid applications. They're all being executed, too. If we wanted to do more, that is sometimes the wish of municipalities too, then that would mean that we would have to free up more capacity to do so. He's not here yet. With this 29 million we come up with an end, but this is always the case: if more is requested, we will also have to use more people to do so. This also requires financial resources. We do not keep separate records of the number of criminals; Mr Slootweg also asked for them. What exactly do we do? We provide tax information, conduct book research and apply recovery measures. We share knowledge and experience in the field of the analysis and tracing of money flows. That goes without saying. We also do this together with our partners in the approach. Then there's the landlord's tax. There was also a brief piece of discussion about this. The cabinet pays a great deal of attention to the situation of housing corporations. We have a lot, a lot and a lot of long discussions about that. The cabinet therefore reduced the rate of landlord tax last year and introduced a tax reduction for sustainability. This year there will be a tax reduction for new buildings and an exemption for temporary dwellings. There is no ceiling for this structural tax reduction. The impulse is flexible over time and also tries to fit in as directly as possible with the need to build more affordable homes. The cabinet will also ensure that the budget reaches an average of 100 million over the years. I believe that yesterday afternoon or last night a letter was sent by the Minister of the Interior to the Chamber containing the latest figures on the tax payments of housing corporations and the indicative spending space; that is important because the claim would be that they would be taxed so heavily that they would no longer have a spending space for housing. That letter states that we look at that a little bit differently and more nuanced. Moreover, the development of that landlord levy is largely dependent on the WPA value. The picture that the total tax payments for corporations will increase is true because these WPA values are growing rapidly. You'll see the same thing with the Vpb and the Vpb output. So that's actually because there were a lot of write-downs in the past due to the loss on the housing value. In the meantime, you can see that these WOZ values have increased considerably and therefore previous write-downs have to be taken back as well. So where the corporations were able to minimize their tax payments for a long time, you see now that this is mirrored. So the picture remains that in the coming years the sector will have sufficient financial resources to invest extra, in addition to the more than 40 billion in plans already in the books up to 2023, and that for the longer term the Cabinet will also, following the Ronnes motion, assess how the social challenges and the financial resources of the corporations relate to each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u120	For the longer term of the Municipal Fund and the more stable finances, that sounds good, but the municipalities are now faced with under-exhaustments, among other things, by the Ministry of IenW, which they are now suffering from, while it is added in later years. Last year we had that discussion here too. Then the VNG said in a broader discussion: we do not take advantage of that nice offer from the Empire to be able to slide. Is the Secretary of State prepared to offer this again or at least discuss it with the UNG?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u121	Sure. It is true that we discussed it extensively last year that if we had under-exhausted the budgets for the municipalities were lower than they had expected, we could see if we could do something with a cash drawer. At the same time, it was not the VNG's wish to do so. There were other solutions, because they work with different fiscal systems than we do, making it a little easier to look over years. The offer around that cash drawer depends on which cash drawer we now have. In principle is always open to discuss it with them, but in the past they had no interest in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u122	I think that this year the problem is feeling a little more intense at local level. So I think they might be able to look at it differently, but thank you for the commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u123	It's not just cash slides, it's just really less money. This year the cabinet had 3.3 billion underspending and next year 2.3 billion is foreseen. Those municipalities have all made budgets for these years on the basis of the government's millions of notes and they just get less money for their provisions. During the year it is already almost November when they have to decide. That's not really desirable, is it? The government is showing off an investment budget and the municipalities are all having cuts. In Groningen City that is 35 million and in the region it is tens of millions. D66 aldermen are calling the alarm clock, as are CDA aldermen and Christian Union mayors and the VVD are worried about the ozb.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u124	Mr. Nijboer, what's the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u125	It's: do something about it!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u126	He'd asked that question before. I have already tried to explain that it is not the case that the municipalities have less to spend. They have more to spend. It's just that they had less because we have the "stairs up, down stairs" system. The total resources were also qualified by the UNG as being in balance with the objectives they themselves had. And then we said: if you are short in 2019, you will get more by 2020. By slowing down our spending and increasing public spending by 2020, the municipalities can also spend more in 2020. That's what we discussed with them. You could solve that with cash slides. That is different from what Mr Nijboer is saying now; with structural resources. There was no need for that in spring. But I would say to Mr Sneller that I would like to continue to talk to them about this. I do not just do that; of course, Mr Ollongren does that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u127	I got the whole answer right, you know. That system is being reviewed. I think that's a good idea, too. But the key question is: does the Secretary of State think these municipalities are whining? There were all these mayors and aldermen here two weeks ago. They all know exactly what this is about and they say: close our libraries; close our museums, because the cabinet spends less than they intended. The letter I received last week from Minister Hoekstra on structural under-exhaustment showed that structural money is not being spent by the cabinet either. This means that municipalities simply have to cut back. They do get less money. We spend more money everywhere, every year; so do people. You have inflation, so that's all true, but given that fact, they're all cutting back now. Every municipality in the Netherlands. The Cabinet can't want that, can it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u128	I don't think these people are saying anything. No, I see the problems they're having. Of course, I'm also talking to the drivers who are sitting there, we'll all have that, and at the same time you'll make an appointment about your budgets in advance. And apart from the cash slides and how we do all this technically, we have agreed from the very beginning in the IBP that there is a lot to do, including for municipalities. They get extra tasks; everything and everything. Then we agreed together: this is the system we use. This led to less instability than before, but also, in particular, to a substantial increase in accretions. Now it may be that municipalities say: we are going to draw up our budget and we are now spending so much that we have to make all kinds of cuts. But that's weird when you know that structuralally 2.3 billion has been added. It may not be weird because those municipalities really feel those costs, because they might actually have something that is reasonable when it comes to the youth aid costs they have. But this also applies to the fact that every time they have that problem, we go into consultation with the municipalities. Because for the youth aid we cleared 1 billion; just, boom, 1 billion, because we saw that what we had previously agreed would probably not be enough to do it right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u129	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u130	So we really take these wishes seriously and we are talking to them all the time about them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u131	That's not weird. There have been elections in the municipalities. They have made their budget on the basis of what they expected, and they have extra costs for youth care, for social affairs and for which I do not know what. They've made agreements that they can't keep right now. This leads to crises in municipalities. Several municipal authorities are already falling and the inhabitants do not have facilities. So I think the Secretary of State is doing too little about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u132	We are really in consultation, together with a VNG, when it comes to the standardisation system, the instability, the fact that they have less now. We are in agreement with them on this, and in good consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u133	I have drawn attention to the fact that one in six Dutch people lives in a house that lacks something, for example poor isolation. The Secretary of State is now showing off an instrument for which the budget was already drawn up in July. In January, you, the cabinet indeed started the arrangement to give a discount to residential corporations working on insulation, with sustainability, of social housing. That arrangement was terminated in July. Then you cannot, in answer to my question, 'will we make more money available for that, because that arrangement has been stopped', say: 'Look, what good that we have done'? Is the Secretary of State prepared to see if there will be more money available for this in the coming years? Otherwise, it'll just be quiet until 2022.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u134	Of course I sympathize with all those people who live in bad homes. Let's put that first. That is why we have allocated a budget for this. We have done so in good consultation with them. I'm not showing off. This is just the outcome of a consultation we've had. We have said that we are making serious money available for this. Accidental, structural; a lot has happened since we started two years ago. They said we're gonna have a hard time. Our first reaction was: let's take a look first. In the meantime we have said: we really see, for example, when it comes to the housing market, that building, building, building is extremely important. That is what the government has been paying attention to, and for that we have agreed a number of things with them. Yeah, we're still in favour of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u135	Really just a new point, Mr. Alkaya, because you also have extensive speaking time in the second term. Okay? Mr. Slootweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u136	Just for a minute. I think the Secretary of State did respond to two points of mine. One: what is possible when the need is high, financially? So there's talk about it. Two. The Visitation Commission thus helps them to support them, where there is a need to get more grip. Is there any reasonable use of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u137	I'm assuming. It's been discussed with them. Especially in that social domain, municipalities really asked for that guidance. I think the visitation committee has already started. The idea is that as many municipalities as possible can get that visitation committee by. For the municipalities that have not requested it, we are building a system in which they can make use of the learning effect of other municipalities. As far as I know, that's fine. Then there's the last part of my block. So that's the last of it anyway. It was about a number of things that are also a little more European. Mr Van Raan had a question and Mr Sneller asked more in width. Mr Sneller asked, if I may summarize him in this way, whether I would like to commit myself to fiscal greening in Europe. The answer is yes, indeed. As you know, we are working hard on the flight tax. Moreover, it is nice to say that we are currently working hard at European level to get a statement from as many European countries on paper as possible, all of which are about to say that it is good that aviation is also being taxed for emissions. We are also strengthening the European emissions trading system, the ETS. In these discussions too, we in Europe are trying to take the lead. When it comes to the issues of CO pricing, I come straight to Mr Van Raan's questions. We found it an interesting idea, which was launched by the Commission, to introduce perhaps a CO border tax. Moreover, there is no paper from the Commission on exactly what they mean, but we have said that we are prepared to think about it with them anyway. In fact, we would like to take the lead in these discussions, just as we were one of the first to have an extensive climate agreement. The Minister just made the point that hopefully we contributed a little bit to the inspiration of the Germans to do the same. As Mr Van Raan and Mr Sneller know, I am also personally committed to keeping this on the map in Europe. We must not wait for things to come to us, but we must be the ones in Europe who can anticipate this. Mr President, that brings me to the end of my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u138	Thank you. Well, that went pretty smoothly, didn't it? Then we now come to the second term on the side of the Chamber. I give the floor to Mr Tony van Dijck on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u139	Thank you, Mr President. I was just about to ask the Secretary of State, but I thought I'd save it for the second term. If he's paying attention, he'll be able to take that question with him in the answer later. The question is as follows: what will the Secretary of State do after the warning, including the Council of State, about marginal pressure? I've been pointing out for years that something's wrong. The Council of State now also points out that people earning between €23,000 and €31,000 for every €100 that they will earn extra, by working longer or making promotion, will be left with €10. It can't be, if you get $100 from your boss because you did so well, you look at your paycheck the next month and there's a tenner in the plus. What will the Secretary of State finally do about this? We have received a study on the marginal pressure on the edge of possibilities. But there's not much in that note to straighten that out. So I'd like to see some more steps. Mr. Chairman. As I said in the first term, there is a satisfied minister here. He has so much money that he even deposits it abroad to avoid negative interest rates. The banks all have to do with negative interest rates and have to do it with the ECB, but not this minister, because he's just avoiding negative interest rates. Thanks to this negative interest rate, he also sees all kinds of opportunities to set up a fund with tens of billions for all fun hobby projects to do sustainability. But because of the crowds, he forgets the victims of this low interest rate. As I said, savers are watching their savings evaporate and the 2 million pensioners are about to be cut short. The Minister does not go into that and says: that is in research. It's gonna be hard for us to get robbed of our pension money and our savings, because he doesn't even criticize the ECB, even if it's responsible for that. After all, they are independent and he benefits where the elderly have been duped! Mr. Chairman. There is no need to reduce pensions. To date, all pensions can be paid out of the premium income, so the 1,500 billion pot is not even affected. The contributions that come in are sufficient to pay the benefits for that year. That 1,500 billion-dollar pot just keeps growing. Next year it's 1,600 billion and the year after that it's 1,700 billion. We're never gonna get to hell again! Mr. Chairman. The problem is the calculation rate. We all know it, but of some higher power the funds must obviously be poor and the participants are the victims. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the threat of pension reductions is immediately withdrawn,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Tony van Dijck. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-50]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u140	Mr. Chairman. Furthermore, the PVV considers it scandalous that there is no more focus on the purchasing power of citizens. That was a promise from Mark Rutte, but this minister now says: those purchasing power figures are not a promise. But it was a promise that people would make a lot of progress. That did not happen last year, that did not happen the year before, that did not happen this year, and we have to see for next year whether it will happen. And if it does, it's tens. The Nibud came in last month with shocking numbers. This minister should care. One in five families suffer from risky or problematic debts. One in five families in 2019! That's a million and a half families. The Nibud doesn't make that up, and that's twice as many families as seven years ago, while we're in a boom boom now and seven years ago in a low economy. Twice as many families have problematic debts. 800,000 tenants.................................................................................................................................. The rents have increased by 30% over the last ten years and 800,000 tenants are unable to pay the housing costs and are in financial difficulties thanks to this cabinet. And this minister comes up with a crumb of three or four tens, which has yet to prove whether any of them will be left. It is time for a real relief and hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to reverse the VAT increase on groceries, reduce rents and eliminate its own risk,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Tony van Dijck. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-51]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u141	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks to both the Minister and the Secretary of State for replying. I think there is a very nice budget. I've built up my story mostly around middle incomes. I think we have done a lot for those middle incomes with 3 billion relief and an energy tax that can go down. Hopefully the savings can go a little faster than the Secretary of State suggested, but we have already been able to make it fairer and lower. I have also made it clear that we would have liked to take another step. One of our proposals was that of the Commission and that sounds very technical in order to adapt the windfall formula. We still do. I heard a number of warm words about this yesterday, but unfortunately we did not agree on that. I have also heard the Minister give a commitment in the first term. He said he wanted to take a good look at it again. I would ask him at least to make a more detailed analysis of the impact on the middle income of the budgetary rules or the absence of some budgetary rules. We see that sometimes it may be a little negative. I also hope that those who devoted warm words to the middle incomes will continue to be on our side in the future when it comes to the future reduction of the burden on those middle incomes, because, of course, we will continue to fight for this as a VVD, as I said in my first term. Thank you, at least, to the Minister for the commitments relating to infrastructure. I think it is a good thing that we are looking at both investment and maintenance and management in relation to existing budgets. I hope that this commitment can be fulfilled by the beginning of 2020. Also thank you for the commitment to implement the rule that, when the care premium is higher, we will go for relief. Finally. The Minister said a number of things about the expenditure side, about healthcare expenditure and also about social security. He's done that externally a number of times. I think it is a good thing that we are looking at how to curb these costs, but I also think that he is getting away with it by saying that my colleagues from VWS are working on this and my colleague from SZW is working on it. I think he also has a responsibility for the future financial sustainability of the budget. He cannot just put that down to the other ministers, especially because he has also spoken a few commendable words about it externally. I'd like him to put a few teeth in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u142	I'd like to refresh Mrs. De Vries' memory. In the previous cabinet, where the VVD was also prominently present, there was a windfall formula. Half of the budget surplus would then be used to reduce the burden. Then in 2017 there was finally a budget surplus and the PVV reminded the VVD: boys, you have a windfall formula, one and a half billion relief. But that was then put aside by Minister Dijsselbloem, who said that that is something for the next cabinet. Now the next cabinet is there and we have 36 billion in surplus. Under the Rutte II formula, therefore, 18 billion burden relief should take place. But now you come as mustard after the meal with the idea of a windfall formula.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u143	I think you should always think about the rules you've agreed on. I see that there are indeed substantial surpluses. That is why we have already proposed the re-introducing of this windfall formula. I have made that plea here once again. I have also heard warm words about this, but unfortunately we have not got out of it. We continue to fight for those middle incomes, and I hope to meet you on my side in the fight for this reduction in the burden on middle incomes, but unfortunately this is not yet done by means of the windfall formula.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u144	Finally, Mr Tony van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u145	Last time the whole formula didn't work because they said: we're so close to the elections now, we're moving it to the next election. Now it is almost too late again and we are going back to a deficit, at least a small surplus next year and then a deficit. And now you come up with a windfall formula! If there really is something to divide, in that formula, then you don't give at home! I fully agree with you: let's organise a windfall formula. I'll make a motion, you sign with me. 50% of the surplus goes to relief, with retroactive effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u146	I am proud that we have now at least managed to reduce the burden on middle incomes by 3 billion. I think that's really gonna come into people's homes. We will continue to fight for that, but I see that there are actions. If there's room and we see it, we'll take it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u147	Thank you, Mrs Aukje de Vries. I now give the floor to Mr Snels on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u148	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a lot of speaking time left. Don't use it. Mr. Chairman. Yesterday I started my first term with a review of the General Political Reviews. At that time, I stressed the importance of two things in a political debate. The first is to make the difference clear and the second is always to seek agreement. If I look at the debate we have had over the last two days, I think that has happened to a slightly lesser extent. I think that is mainly because we are financial spokesmen and very quickly and very much like to go into technology, but behind that technique is still a world of difference in opinion and ideas. I would like to pass on the three commitments I have made from the Minister, because I believe that there are a lot of different views behind this. The first is, of course, about the Rabobank and the Minister's undertaking that he will see what information he can give me through De Nederlandsche Bank about what I would call the concentration or systemic risks that might be at Rabobank when it comes to intensive livestock farming. I thank the Minister for that, but I just think that the Minister, with a CDA background, and I, GroenLinks, disagree quite fundamentally on what the future of agriculture should be. But it is good that I have received this commitment. The same is true in the case of wage and price developments. That too is technique, budgetary technique. An estimate has been made of the starting note, but the wages in the market are against. or with it, it's just how you look at it............................................................................................................................................................................................. Again, I think there is a considerable difference of opinion on how to bridge these differences, but I thank the Minister once again for his commitment to return to both the Study Group on Budgets and the Spring Paper and to assess the impact. The same is true, in fact, of Mrs De Vries, who referred to the budgetary rule that if care expenditure is not too bad, care premiums are not too bad, then the first disc rate automatically goes up. I think that, on the basis of income policy considerations, I think that is different from other parties in the Chamber, but it is very nice that we have more insight into this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u149	I have a question for the GroenLinks speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u150	Mr. Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u151	Yes, I have a question for the GroenLinks speaker. Is it true what I read in the newspaper last night and this morning that GroenLinks is going to support budgets anyway?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u152	If the spokesman for the Forum for Democracy had attended the debate, he would of course have been able to hear from my own mouth what I said about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u153	Here in the debate, you mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u154	Yeah, well. Then it is wonderful that Mr Snels can repeat that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u155	Well, I don't think so. Because we have to move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u156	I can invite Mr Baudet to read the Acts again tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u157	Yeah, or look back on the debate. It's possible. This was changed enough yesterday. You can say something about that. You're free to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u158	Okay, I'll start a different way. Have I understood correctly that GroenLinks is going to support all the budgets in any case?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u159	Well, very briefly. I explained our position yesterday, of course. That position has simply been made clear by my group chairman in the General Political Reviews. Apparently, you weren't paying attention then either. We have indeed looked very carefully at what is in this Tax Plan and what is in all these budgets. That has been a careful analysis of us. We can see that progress is actually being made in all these areas. That makes it difficult to vote against it, but in fact we would like to make leaps forward. That is the position that has been explained, both in the General Political Reviews and yesterday during this debate. Apparently, Mr Baudet only reads the newspaper.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u160	Why do you react so angry, anyway?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u161	Gee, I'd say...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u162	Mr President, may I say that? I'm annoyed about this. Yesterday you came in at the very end of the debate to do your own time. You're probably just gonna make another video of that. If you really take this debate seriously, you will be there from the start. Then we can also have the debate with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u163	You can always interrupt and address me...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u164	I can't interrupt you if you're not here. You can't interrupt me if you're not here. You're not here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u165	Oh, so you're sorry I didn't interrupt you enough. Well, now you have a chance to answer, because I'm interrupting you now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u166	And I answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u167	You can interrupt me at any time, can't you? I really do not understand the indignation and the incomparability.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u168	Well, this is...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u169	Don't worry, we'll follow you very well. But you're going around the answer a little bit, and I want to hear it clearly one more time. So you think it's a step forward, but you'd rather jump. However, given these reservations, GroenLinks is going to support all budgets regardless of what we are discussing here in these debates that you consider so important. Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u170	Both the General Political Reviews and the General Financial Reviews are about the entire state budget and they are also about the Tax Plan, which you had not read yesterday. In doing so, we have made an assessment; where do we stand in this regard? We see these steps forward. That is why we have said: we are not going to vote against additional investments in all these budgets, we are not going to vote against a reduction in the energy bill, we are not going to vote against an increase in the tax on profits compared to the current law, we are not going to vote against a reduction in the burden on people, we are not going to vote against a higher...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u171	One final comment, Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u172	Because the cabinet is moving towards GroenLinks, right? That's actually the conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u173	Well, you weren't in the debate, so you probably also missed me saying that I was optimistic about the way in which the General Political Reviews took place. That was not about the tone of the debate, but it was about seeing that we are at a turning point. Many parties, not only in the Netherlands, think slowly but surely that we should say goodbye to the dogma of more market forces, lower burdens, a smaller government, and that we should also really look at the role of the government. It was about the fact that the socio-economic playing field is currently moving to the left. I am very pleased with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u174	Good. I think you were done, weren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u175	Let's have a laugh, Mr. Quick. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u176	Mr. Chairman. The debate is important, but it is sometimes a little difficult for not everyone to take the debate seriously. Mr. Chairman. As a result of the General Political Reviews, my group also agreed that we would try to table fewer motions, so I do not have a motion of my own. I have co-signed two motions from our counter-budget, one from Mr Nijboer and one from Mr Alkaya. And I co-signed a motion from Mr Sneller. It is about the SMEAs and the broad prosperity. I thank the rulers for the answers and I look forward to the debate on the Tax Plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u177	Thank you, Mr. Quick. I now give the floor to Mr Slootweg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u178	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for the answers. There are a number of points I would like to mention. We continue to regard a strong budgetary discipline as important. We therefore also understand that this year's budget has really deviated from that salmon standard, but this has not deviated from budgetary discipline. However, we are currently dealing with the cessation of gas extraction, a pension agreement and a climate agreement, negative interest rates and a tight labour market without any wage increase. Those are enough reasons to see if it all fits. Then we actually come to a point where you have to look retroactively at whether all the ratios are still in a good way. I am talking about the look on the one side of EMU debt, and we are making sure that the next generation has sufficient resources? I would like to say a few words about the demands of society, about expenditure, but also, finally, about the burden of burdens, about the collective burdens that people have to bear. That is why we need to achieve a good relationship. We want that very much, in the future and also in the future budgets. This remains essential for us. Make sure you have those three pickposts, because those are actually the means by which you can do what you want to do with the tax resources: relieve for the next generation, maintain support for the present generation, but also ensure that the reinforcement and investment, and in what distribution, are achieved in a good way. In fact, I would like to ask, because I did not go into that at the beginning of the debate yet, whether the Minister would like to send a letter on exactly how money is being stored abroad. We have not had any further debate on this, but I actually expect us to get some sort of letter and information about it, in particular about the framework conditions when you choose to move it to a foreign bank. Because Germany and France sound good, but something can happen there too. We hope that the framework conditions will be specified. Finally, there are three other points. First of all, negative interest rates mean that we have to rethink the architecture of our economy. It has an impact on savings, which has an impact on pensions, but it also gives the possibility of an investment fund. We look forward to the investment fund with a positive foundation, but we still have a lot of questions. They're about governance, but they're also about where you want to put that money. It should not be a grabbelton; colleagues have said the same. But one question is also: how does that relate to other funds? We hope that we will also have an answer to that. I welcome the Secretary of State's commitment to the space he offers to see how to achieve more stable relations with the municipalities. I understand that the Secretary of State actually says very clearly: it takes two to tango, you can really see with me how we might be able to give that air, but yes, then the municipalities must also take the dance step in it. I am also pleased that you have indicated that you are looking not only at finances but also at how we can support municipalities in order to gain more grip. I think that is very important. Finally, thanks to the Secretary of State for the commitment to study how the tax rebates and surcharges affect the tax system, especially where you have extremes. Take one of those guys. At €33.000 gross income you earn even less than at €27.000. I don't think we want any of that, but that does require rebuilding, and that certainly won't be easy. In that sense, I am very pleased with the commitments that have been made. I hope there will be one more and I think we have had a good and structural debate here. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u179	Thank you, Mr. Slootweg. No, Mr. Tony van Dijck, motions shouldn't be filed at all. But Mr Tony van Dijck likes Mr Slootweg's motions. Mr Alkaya on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u180	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The most common answer today is that they are conscious political choices. That is true, but the cabinet makes the wrong choices and also does not argue enough. Wrong choices. Because there's no money for teachers. There will be no reduction in VAT which has been increased first. There will be no higher minimum wage. But what will come is a lower income tax from 2021 for the most wealthy and a lower income tax for the larger companies. These are symptoms of the fact that the cabinet is still not on the right track. Symptoms of a way of thinking that is at its end and in need of replacement. In response to questions about this, the cabinet says that these are conscious choices but does not tell the honest story that goes with them. That's why I'll do it for them. This policy will create even more inequality in the Netherlands, because it is based on the misconception that success and associated wealth is a choice that must be rewarded. The rest of society must therefore be punished. The conscious political choice of this cabinet is therefore more inequality and more individualism. It is significant that the Minister stated in his reply that housing and proper maintenance of social housing are the responsibility of the individual. Absurd! So I do not have the illusion that this cabinet will eventually be heading in the right direction. That is why I am focusing first of all on the members of the Chamber, some of whom had already said goodbye to neoliberal capitalism two weeks ago. I am specifically addressing the CDA Group, which again talks about 'people's housing' and which also says that it is not only about affordable living, but also about living without defects, about the quality of living. One of the reasons why the quality of social housing is lagging behind is the landlord's tax. Housing corporations and ultimately the tenants continue to pay for the antisocial tax plans that the cabinet has in store for the Netherlands. The SP has been fighting the landlord tax since its inception, which turns its back on new construction and housing maintenance. The opposition to this wrong tax is growing. Today, I make another proposal to reduce the landlord's tax. Eventually we get this whole thing off the table. That's my belief. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that housing is not only about affordable new buildings, but also about the quality of existing rentals;]] [[considers it undesirable that one in six Dutch live in a house with major defects, such as poor isolation;]] [[Considering that the Scheme Reduction Rental Tax Sustainability was opened on 1 January 2019, but closed on 1 July 2019 because the budget is running out and will be reopened in 2022 at the earliest;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how this regime can be reopened as soon as possible for new applications and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Alkaya. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-52]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u181	Mr. Chairman. My second and final motion concerns inequality in the Netherlands and is based on the alternative choices we presented together with GroenLinks and the Labour Party two weeks ago. I would stress that these are alternative choices where we would not spend an extra penny and which could be introduced next year. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that wages are lagging behind economic growth;]] [[noting that the wealthiest households have an increasing share of wealth;]] [[calls on the government to introduce an additional capital tax above 1 million and to use the proceeds to increase the statutory minimum wage,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Alkaya, Mr Nijboer and Mr Snels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-53]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u182	I have one more question for Mr Alkaya. I think that when it comes to housing, we can move forward in a much wider context. That's great, but I still have one question. When it comes to the quality of homes and any molding spots, you do one-sidedly appeal to the treasury. In your view, is there no individual responsibility or responsibility at all with a housing corporation or a landlord? How exactly do you see that? I want to know, because that would mean if I understood you correctly, if you didn't do anything about it, everything would be reimbursed when the SP rules. Isn't there some kind of personal responsibility?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u183	We wouldn't pay for everything. The point is that the housing corporations have to do with the landlord's tax. The landlord levy would have been a crisis measure, but it still weighs on the housing corporations. They can only spend a euro once in the end. If they cut down nearly 2 billion a year on the state budget, they can't put that money into the maintenance of social housing. Actually, I'd like the landlord's tax to go completely off the table, but since it's $2 billion a year, I'd like to do that in steps. That is why I say: let's at least give them a discount on the landlord's tax if they start working on new construction and maintenance of social housing. The cabinet already does so in the area of new construction and the cabinet already did so in the area of maintenance and insulation of social housing. All I'm saying is that we're running out of budget and that this was far from enough. It should have lasted three years and only lasted six months. Let's see if we can't make more money for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u184	Mr Slootweg, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u185	In any case, I understand that you see that there is also a personal responsibility with the landlords and with housing corporations. In my view, this is a very constructive way to see how we can guarantee the quality of living in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u186	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u187	Of course. The balance sheets of the housing corporations not only consist of the landlord's levy, but they are subject to this tax. It's about supporting the housing corporations. They can only spend every euro once. I'd rather it went to the social housing instead of to the rich budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u188	Thank you, Mr. Alkaya. I now give the floor to Mr Sneller on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u189	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Perhaps you could clarify once again whether it is 'Alternative Financial Reviews' or 'General Financial Reviews', because at the end of the debate I was not quite clear where the emphasis should be. I also suggest that we start with the other block next time. So much for the more procedural observations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u190	That's a very good suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u191	Thank you to the Minister for explaining how he sees this investment fund. It was good, after all the other places where that has been discussed, to talk about it a little more extensively here too. In my view, there is broad agreement that it is good to invest and invest extra in earning capacity. I did, however, emphasise that it is not just extra investment to be able to finance broad prosperity, but that this broad prosperity deserves a place in it. I welcome the speed the Minister intends to make with that. I had said in the first term that this is also a good opportunity to look more broadly at how we can look at social cost-benefit analyses in a more modern way. That was the word Mr Snels used for it. I have the next motion for a resolution on that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas investment takes into account the costs and benefits of the investment envisaged, but also the social impact;]] [[Whereas the General Guide to Social Cost-benefit Analysis used by Ministries was established in 2013 and has not been revised thereafter;]] [[noting that since the adoption of the General Guidance on Social Cost-benefit Assessments, the interpretation of the social component has been widened, including by the Monitor Brede Prosperity;]] [[calls on the Government to evaluate the overall guidance for social cost-benefit analyses from the concept of broad prosperity with the aim of better anchoring the relevant social component in these analyses and sharing with the Chamber the necessary suggestions in the summer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Sneller, Mr Bruins, Mr Slootweg and Mr Snels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-54]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u192	I was also very pleased with the way the Minister and the Secretary of State spoke about the importance of the climate. I think this also shows how they can now operate internationally and how important it is to play a leadership role here and there as the Netherlands. This applies to the Minister when he talks to his colleagues in Germany, for example, but also to Politico today, who said about the Secretary of State: he is leading the European charge to make aviation pay for its emissions. In other words, he is leading the European attack to ensure that aviation will pay for its own emissions. I think that gives the Netherlands a position to talk to and to ensure that the debate is heading our way. I welcome the offer for the municipalities and the commitment to look at the local tax area. Actually, that's already happening. I think it is a good thing that we are getting more clarity about shockproof................................................................................................................................................................................................... The same applies to the state debt and the study. Then the G20. I understand that the Minister has not answered my somewhat rhetorical question about the responsibility of people who fill their tanks with oil coming from Saudi Arabia, but I think the Minister understood where that question came from. I hope he reflects on that after all. I appreciate how he handled it himself last year, after the murder and in the discussion with that panel. I understood that correctly at the time. I think it is a good thing for next year's G20 that this Minister urged his colleagues to do so. But it is very easy to look back and think in a year and a half: it was a business as usual G20 and Saudi Arabia is back to normal, which I do not think can be the case. Finally, the reforms. There I was reminded of the statement "if it was easy, everyone did it," but I know I have an ally in this minister. Let's see how we can push that even further.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u193	A brief question to Mr Sneller. Is he willing to look together with the Party for Animals at the emissions that the current economy in the Netherlands causes elsewhere, in other words the carbon footprint that the Netherlands causes elsewhere? It seems that with climate policy and the Climate Act, the Cabinet addresses only half of the population.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u194	Let's look at it and see what we can do about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u195	Thank you, Mr. Faster. Then Mr Nijboer on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u196	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm in politics to do something. And I think that, if you're in politics from the opposition, you have a duty to make serious proposals to adjust government policy. The PvdA has presented a counter-budget with the SP and GroenLinks, in which we show that you can make very different choices for society within the same budget. I argued in the first term that the PvdA believes that there are financial surpluses, but that the cabinet shows a deficit for the needs of society. I have drawn particular attention to the workload of teachers, the shortage of teachers in general, schools that close, the inequality of opportunity in education, unqualified teachers for the classroom and the lack of measures taken by the cabinet. I referred to the cuts in higher education. I also mentioned the housing shortage and the number of affordable rental homes that will decrease rather than increase due to the burden on housing corporations. The Secretary of State just explained it in his reply. Perhaps the cabinet members can still have the decency to listen, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u197	Maybe I can say something?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u198	I didn't want to say anything about it, because I just want to focus on the content, but I find the attitude and content of the Minister of Finance's response today to be inadequate. I also think it's beneath measure to be joking with each other while there's a serious input. You're not doing anything with it. That is your choice, it may be, but I think they should have the respect to listen properly. I don't like that attitude. They're making it their own way. Mr. Chairman. I do not think that enough is being done about the housing shortage. I also think that the municipalities are getting in trouble. They've sounded the alarm clock. In all these areas, the PvdA Group will put forward proposals and motions for resolutions. I have three motions for resolutions and also tabled amendments to the Tax Plan. That is why I am disappointed with the debate over the last two days, because there has been no substantial change in this direction. This applies not only to the opposition, but also to the coalition parties. They have made a very reasonable request for an investigation into a windfall formula, but even that has not been achieved. If the cabinet is not prepared to do more to meet the needs of education, the PvdA Group is forced to vote against the Education Budget. I'd rather vote for it. And if the cabinet continues to stretch 2.4 billion for large companies and, at the same time, continues to do too little about the housing shortage by increasing the landlord's tax on landlords on a net basis, and also perseveres in making the income distribution in the Netherlands rather than bringing it together, so that beneficiaries, tenants and pensioners also benefit from economic growth, the PvdA Group's Tax Plan will not receive any support. We are going to discuss this in detail, and I will continue to table amendments to that effect. I now have three motions on the budget. I hope the cabinet will take a serious look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u199	All criticism may be made, but my first question to Mr Nijboer was to think for himself. He asked questions about the education budget, to which he received a proper reply from the Minister of Finance. The Minister has pointed out the cash slides that are underneath. It would have decorated Mr Nijboer if he had come back to that and said here: it is true when it comes to policy intensification, then there is additional money, and that it is now falling is only the result of cash slides. Is he willing to do that after all?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u200	I'm not prepared to do that. The Minister referred in his replies to our election programme. At that time, I opposed our counter-budget. We make other choices and allocate 2 billion more to the public sector. I have pointed out that there is a cut in higher education because of the increase in interest rates for students who have not been undone. I am simply referring to the budget that is in place. Whatever the causes are, cash slides or whatever, for next year it will be lower than this year's. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats does not agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u201	Finally, Mr Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u202	What Mr Nijboer is doing is pointing very much at others and showing little self-reflection. But above all, he simply walks away from the question of whether he is willing to listen seriously to the answers, to draw a serious conclusion and then admit his own wrong, if that is the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u203	I have told Mr Sneller that there is more money for primary education. A different collective agreement has been agreed. There is also more money for beta education, at least temporarily. I'm not denying that at all...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u204	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u205	...but I don't think it's enough. Close schools, get teachers on strike, and I'm trying to do something for that. I was so hoping D66 would take that. In the previous period, 20 billion had to be cut, now there is 10 billion left. Grab it with both hands...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u206	This is exactly the discussion...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u207	Yes, Mr. Chairman, but it was asked. I'm filing three motions that can achieve that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the growing shortage of teachers leads to increased workload and poses a threat to equal opportunities in education;]] [[considers that the work of teachers in primary and secondary education is equally important;]] [[calls on the government to allocate EUR 560 million to address the shortage of teachers and to align wages in primary education with those in secondary education and to cover this from the austerity of the innovation box,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Nijboer, Mr Snels and Mr Alkaya. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-55]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u208	You can talk to me about the cover. It's in our counter-budget. We also have other coverage options.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u209	Next move.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u210	It's like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas coverage for the outstanding legislative proposal has been sought to increase student interest rates of 226 million within higher education;]] [[whereas higher education also deserves investment instead of austerity;]] [[calls on the Government to seek cover outside OCW's budget and to make proposals for this in the Spring Note,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas local authorities receive less money because of the large amount of money left on the shelf in the Empire;]] [[whereas local authorities cannot do anything about this, but there is a need to cut down on swimming pools, libraries, village houses, etc.;]] [[calls on the government, in anticipation of structural solutions, to compensate local authorities for the lost income next year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Nijboer and Mr Alkaya. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-56]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-57]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u211	Thank you. And I say to the cabinet members: you still have the chance to smile, but I am serious about making a move in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u212	Thank you, Mr. Nijboer. I now give the floor to Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u213	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank both directors for the answers. We've got a lot of answers. I have a few comments to make. Firstly, the Secretary of State has very generously offered to include further options to reduce marginal pressure in his building blocks. I've been listening to that. I have also mentioned some of the options he repeated: shifting labour costs to other tax sources or a reduction in allowances combined with higher benefits and a higher minimum wage. For example, there are many more very creative possibilities that can be visited. I wish the Secretary of State's officials full creativity and I hope he will encourage them to do so. I had a motion in preparation, but this commitment is so generous and the Secretary of State was already so far on his way to naming possibilities, that I will refrain from the motion. The second point I would like to highlight is that the Secretary of State has clearly stated that the starting point of this cabinet is that the gap in the tax burden for one- and two-earners does not increase during this cabinet period. I heard him confirm that that is the starting point. I am holding on to that, and I will hold on to the rulers this year and also next year. Then I come to the third and final point. I thank the Minister for his wise words about the investment fund. I can add that I am convinced that if you take on board and consider the transition challenges that our country is facing in a smart and coherent way in the coming years, then by definition and at the same time contribute to the sustainable earning capacity of the Netherlands. I therefore call on the cabinet to take a coherent approach to these social transitions in the growth letter. Then I want to end with how I started: the dual responsibility of the Minister and the Secretary of State for Finance. The minister also appointed that double responsibility in his king's speech on the Sunday after Princess Day. There was a radical message in it: if you have money, you have friends, but if you share money, you create eternal value. That is what I wish for both heads of government, because we are not here for ourselves, but for the others. Whoever does that, who creates eternity value, there is a little bit further in Mark 10... the part that the minister used in his sermon... receives one hundredfold now in this time and in the world that comes. Now that is not necessarily a prediction for the return of the investment fund that is to come, but I wish both directors every success.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u214	Thank you, Mr. Bruins. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raan on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u215	Thank you, Mr President. The mandate I gave the Minister, namely to pass it on to the Minister of Finance in the year 2106, is complicated. I understand that, because otherwise I might have been able to do it myself, to paraphrase Mr Sneller. That's why I entrust it to the Minister. Thank you also for the answers that give us the opportunity to disagree wholeheartedly and to stay on what needs to be done. I have four motions, which I'm about to begin with. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is in the interests of banks, insurers and pension funds to prevent them from remaining stuck with stranded assets and to shift their investments in good time;]] [[Whereas an increasing number of beached assets are to be expected due to the transitions in the fossil energy sector, in agriculture and livestock farming, in the transport sector, in chemistry and possibly other sectors and that this may pose a systemic risk to Dutch financial institutions;]] [[calls on the Government to encourage supervisors to identify and address the financial stability risks of beached assets and to reconnect the Chamber on this issue,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that man is causing large-scale damage to nature in many places;]] [[whereas there is little or no legal means to do anything about this;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out an inventory of the concept of ecocide and to inform the Court at an appropriate time,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-58]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-59]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u216	Now for a long one, Mr. Chairman. It's no different. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Remkes Committee made recommendations for the reduction of the Dutch livestock;]] [[noting that the European Commission has concluded trade agreements with countries such as Ukraine, Canada, Brazil and Argentina, which have led Dutch farmers to face foreign competition which produces under lower standards;]] [[noting that international financial institutions, such as the EBRD, the IFC and the EIB and Atradius DSB, financed by public funds, contribute to the development of the foreign livestock sector through financing or guarantees;]] [[Whereas it is incomprehensible and undesirable that, when Dutch farmers are required to reduce livestock, the same farmers co-pay through taxes to finance their competition elsewhere;]] [[invites the Dutch Government to always instruct the Dutch representative to request formal decision-making, to vote actively against and to obtain support from other Member States and/or shareholders for this position when deciding on applications for funding and guarantees for building the livestock sector abroad,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-60]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u217	Then the last one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that according to the Plan Bureau for the Environment, the Dutch economy causes environmental damage of at least EUR 31 billion per year;]] [[noting that the State budget specifies by policy article which financial resources are reserved but does not report on the climate and environmental damage caused by this policy;]] [[considers that a better understanding of the damage caused by each policy article can contribute to better decision-making;]] [[calls on the government to include in each budget in future the climate and environmental damage caused by the policy in the previous year and to provide an indication of the expected climate and environmental damage for the coming financial year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-61]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u218	Finally, Mr President, I look forward to exploring with the Secretary of State exactly what these border effects and border taxes can do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u219	Thank you, Mr. Van Raan. I now give the floor to Mr Van Otterloo on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u220	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the direction of Mr Sneller, this is about something more than just the expenditure framework and the shifting of numbers. This is about people and people depend on government when it comes to an important part of their lives. That's why we're talking about more. I say the same to the two rulers, who I thank for their answers. We cannot escape talking about pensions here too, because the interest rate is also a matter for the two rulers on their responsibility. Risk-free interest means placing the risk with the current group of pensioners. Mr. Chairman. We are in favour of the creative use of money, although the Secretary of State may think right that I do not want to spend properly. No, creative means you're looking at what you can do with that money. We will also check with the investment fund whether the money is well invested in people and not in the things that should normally be paid out of the budget. If we can encourage lifelong learning with an investment fund, it would be worth a sweet thing to us. I saw the letter from ABN AMRO, which came in last night. By the way, it does not answer the questions I have asked. I think those answers can be given, because it doesn't necessarily mean that it can't be because it would be under the courts. Mr. Chairman. I hope to get a written response from the other side of the CPB and the CBS to the question of how it is that figures on purchasing power, which are the basis for government policy, then year in, year out and what has been learned, especially when it comes to older people. I have a motion on the point I mentioned about the gas tax, because I have also been confirmed that there are no figures. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the physical state of the elderly, the use of medicinal products, the different daily schedule may be much more affected by the increase in gas prices;]] [[Whereas older people are relatively more likely to live in obsolete and/or poorly isolated houses;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out a quick scan of the above considerations and to confirm or strongly refute them with facts,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Van Otterloo. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-62]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u221	Mr. Chairman. Then about the cook order two motions. The first is general. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, according to the CBS, wage developments have been lagging behind economic growth and economic growth has been concentrated mainly on enterprises and public authorities;]] [[Whereas the development of the minimum wage has not or has not been able to keep up with the increase in the cost of living;]] [[calls on the government to increase the legal minimum wage, including the associated benefits and the AOW, by 2020 to 5%,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Van Otterloo. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-63]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u222	Then I'll come to the final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the estimated increase in purchasing power over 2017, 2018 and 2019 for pensioners has not been achieved at all;]] [[Whereas the threat of pension reductions has not yet been incorporated into the purchasing power forecast;]] [[calls on the government to ensure that a well-earned catch-up ends up in pensioners' wallets,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Van Otterloo. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-64]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u223	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And with three motions, I still have half my time left.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u224	Mr Krol, Mrs Van Brenn and Mrs Sazias of VWS will be very pleased about this. I shall now give the floor to Mr Stoffer on behalf of the SGP and make way for Mr Van der Lee to replace me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u225	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u226	I have now come to terms with this shock, Mr President. Thanks for the word. I would also like to thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for answering all my questions. I am not saying that I was equally happy with every answer, but there were quite a few of them that I could agree with. What I found most regrettable is that I have not been able to convince the Secretary of State to convert this individualistic tax system into a more family-friendly tax policy. But I have hope, because I read in the newest Elsevier this afternoon that it would also be very good for D66 to adopt the position of the SGP. It could actually be very liberal. I'd say read that, and I'm sure you'll be fine. To give it a little bit of a push, I have a motion, along with Mr Snels. The motion reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the income-dependent combination discount (IACK) is an instrument for promoting participation in employment and the economic independence of partners;]] [[noting that the IACK does not currently have a phasing-out path, which also means that two-earners with two high incomes continue to be entitled to this reduction;]] [[Whereas the effectiveness of this instrument is decreasing in people on high incomes;]] [[Whereas this instrument helps to increase the difference in the tax burden between one and two-earners;]] [[noting that the government agreement on confidence in the future is based on an income package that strikes a balance between one and two earners;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how to reduce the tax gap between one and two-earningers through the adjustment of the IACK, including the impact on marginal pressure, and to seek coverage in the reduction or reduction of the IACK for high incomes,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Stoffer and Mr Snels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-65]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u227	Is this a research motion that you submit, or is it filled in immediately? I don't have the text in front of me, but it seemed like a research proposal. After that, there was some sort of fill-in.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u228	It is a research motion, but one with which a little direction is given to the research.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u229	I think the Secretary of State has agreed to investigate a lot of cases. I'm assuming he's taking this with him. Then why explicitly request this? Isn't that enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u230	That is what we are about to hear, but I have also specifically indicated a direction in which we are looking for it. But I haven't heard that the Secretary of State is going to do an investigation to narrow the gap, the gap, between one and two earners. That's what I'm aiming at. Mr President, I would like to make a second motion. It's like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Secretary of State for Finance has recently made a proposal to adjust the capital efficiency levy in box 3;]] [[noting that alternative forms of financing, such as crowdfunding, are important for the provision of capital to SMEs;]] [[Whereas the proposal to adjust the capital return tax increases the tax burden for investors in crowdfunding, for example, which makes investing in SMEs less attractive through alternative financing methods;]] [[Whereas SMEs are of great importance to the Dutch economy and should not be discouraged from investing in SMEs;]] [[noting that there is a special scheme for green investments in box 3 in order to stimulate green investments;]] [[calls on the Government to consider, when drafting the legislative proposal to amend box 3, whether this scheme can also be applied to investments in alternative forms of financing,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Stoffer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-66]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u231	Thank you, Mr Baudet has the floor on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u232	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yesterday I mentioned that there are three very large, huge disastrous projects going on, which are supported across the political spectrum in the Netherlands. The incumbents of the established spectrum are in the process of actually killing the Netherlands. The continuing mass immigration, the continuing transfer of sovereignty to the European Union and the hopeless and completely priceless energy transition. So I also argued that the cabinet has no fundamental difference from the GroenLinks agenda. What did indeed turn out shortly after this debate? GroenLinks will support all budgets, unconditionally. One doesn't even need anything in return. That says enough. Such a quick explicit confirmation of my right I, who is not exactly known because of a low self-esteem, was not considered possible. The blank cheque from Klaver for Rutte ensures that the cabinet can continue undisturbed on the path taken and that we will see even more immigration in the coming years. It was also recently announced that the Secretary of State for Immigration and Asylum is not going to change its policy towards the Syrians. So she's not gonna accelerate those people back, even if they can just go back. The speed limit is going down. The costs, the subsidies, for the energy transition are rising. Interest rates remain low, causing our pensions to evaporate. Nevertheless, I continue to persevere in our other agenda and in our other human and worldview. I therefore put forward motions today, perhaps against better knowledge, to give concrete hands and feet to another kind of policy, which is just possible, that is possible and that can follow from other political choices. A policy that we would advocate. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that next year, the Cabinet has allocated EUR 11.4 billion in grants to biomass plants;]] [[Whereas the burning of biomass is totally unsustainable, creates enormous air pollution from particulate matter, more CO emissions than coal or gas combustion, leads to massive tree cover, huge amounts of nitrogen emissions and relatively low energy output;]] [[noting that the European umbrella of scientists endorsed these considerations and identified subsidies for biomass plants as waste money;]] [[calls on the Government to stop any subsidy for biomass in the shortest possible time,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas under Rutte I Cabinet, the high VAT rate was increased from 19% to 21% in 2012 as a temporary crisis measure;]] [[Whereas the Rutte III Cabinet increased the low VAT rate from 6% to 9% in 2019;]] [[Whereas this has led to an increase in the prices of almost all products and has seriously affected the purchasing power of all Dutch people;]] [[Whereas measures are needed to improve purchasing power directly;]] [[calls on the government to use the structural billions released if we stop subsidising biomass, as early as next year, to reverse both forms of VAT increase as quickly as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that by 2020, public authorities will make 10.7 billion commitments in the area of renewable energy and climate policy;]] [[noting that the government also expects to raise EUR 1.7 billion in income through the gift and inheritance tax;]] [[noting that, in the most optimistic scenario, climate policy may mean a maximum of 0,00007 oC less warming;]] [[whereas this does not therefore confer any advantage on the Netherlands;]] [[Calls on the Government not to enter into financial commitments in the area of climate policy and to make direct use of the savings resulting from this in order to reduce and abolish the donation and inheritance tax next year in 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Cabinet intends to reduce the self-employed deduction from €7.280 to €5,000 at present to increase the labour discount and the general tax discount;]] [[Whereas the increase in the employment discount and the general tax rebate are a step in the right direction;]] [[Considering that independent entrepreneurs take additional risks and are therefore a huge source of Dutch innovation and entrepreneurial strength and therefore deserve full public support;]] [[calls on the government, therefore, to maintain fully and fully the self-employed deduction as it currently exists,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the European Central Bank has announced that interest rates, which are already negative, will be further reduced;]] [[whereas the savings rates of Dutch banks are also at risk of becoming negative and that this means that people will have to pay to save;]] [[whereas Belgium has already taken measures to prohibit negative savings interest rates and Germany is expressly considering this;]] [[calls on the government to come forward with a proposal to ban or compensate for negative savings in Dutch banks, following the example of our neighbouring countries,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the total annual costs of mass immigration for the Netherlands cannot be clearly reduced from the budget, because they are hidden behind many different posts and are reflected in a variety of different social costs;]] [[whereas it is irresponsible to continue with large-scale immigration policy without knowing exactly how much this costs the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government to provide detailed information as soon as possible on the total annual costs of mass immigration, at least from non-Western countries, to the Netherlands and the Chamber as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-67]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-68]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-69]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-70]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-71]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-72]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u233	Finally. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the own risk among the Rutte Cabinets has more than doubled;]] [[Whereas this low income and vulnerable groups are disproportionately affected by their purchasing power;]] [[Whereas this leads to the avoidance of necessary care and that this affects public health;]] [[calls on the government to use the structural billions released if we stop subsidising biomass next year, EUR 11.4 billion, to reduce its own risk to €200 per year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-73]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u234	Do I see a movement for an interruption? Mr. Van Raan?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u235	At least I expect Mr Snels to have a debate with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u236	I have a question for Mr Baudet. He always attaches great importance to the high level of education and science. In fact, he constantly calls for investment in this area. He is now, rightly in our view, quoting the science to demonstrate that biomass may not be sustainable. In short, Mr Baudet regards science as high. Maybe I should ask a check question first. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u237	The fun or complex thing about this question is that science is always developing internally. That actually defines science. What is scientific is what is said in advance: that can be falsified, that can be undermined. Science is actually more of a method than a set of eternally fixed values, I would say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u238	I can actually go along with that. For example, the doubt also plays a role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u239	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u240	That wasn't the question, but it's nice that we agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u241	Do you ever doubt the impact of humans on the climate?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u242	No, Mr Van Raan is now going to ask a real question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u243	It's nice that we agree, but that wasn't really the question. The question was this. If we think it's so important to talk about the best scientists, the best teaching methods, we agree on that, and that's fine, then I can't understand... In fact, I doubt Mr Baudet's intelligence, to be honest. So that's where the doubt comes from, then I immediately answered his question. Do I ever doubt it? Yes, to the mind of Mr Baudet. If the best and most intensive scientific methods used by thousands of scientists say that climate change comes from man and that man has to deal with it, I do not understand why he systematically rejects it. Not because I think that if the Netherlands does exactly its part, the climate problem is solved. That is something we agree on: it is not, we will all have to do it. But the idea that this climate change is not caused by humans and that it cannot be solved by people does not want to be solved by me. And that is why I doubt his mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u244	It's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u245	But as a scientific method is appropriate, I am quite prepared to change my mind if the facts give rise to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u246	I am not convinced, in any way, that science or the most renowned scientists in the world would agree that man is the decisive factor in climate change. That's one. And two, as you say, will also have to compete with the rest of the world. If the Netherlands is going to do this, for this 1,000 billion-dollar transition, then the rest of the world has to do something, because if the Netherlands does it alone, nothing will happen. Of course, that is not a scientific question, it is a political question, and I am absolutely convinced that China and Africa are never going to do that. For two reasons, therefore, I disagree with you. I don't think it's true that all these scientists agree. On the contrary, I see around me that more and more people are starting to scratch behind the ears and say: "Wait a minute, that glacier that is melting there, we all find Roman coins. Maybe it was a little warmer 2,000 years ago; maybe there is a natural cycle." I see that happening more and more. Secondly, I do not see the convergence of all world cultures at all. Chinese don't become Europeans. Africans don't become Europeans.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u247	Okay, rounding it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u248	Rounding up. We don't agree on the first. Those are political choices. But the second is that it is not at all true that all scientists agree. No one's saying that at all. For example, every IPCC report identifies and investigates that doubt. It's just in that doubt that you're getting further. But despite the doubt, the certainty is so great that you can say it. I am so sorry that Mr Baudet is not paying attention to this. The absolute certainty he poses here, which is truly contrary to what he himself says about science, I cannot rhyme. I absolutely can't rhyme with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u249	What absolute certainty do I post? I say that I find it totally unconvincing, but that even if it were, it is still completely irrational to pursue the kind of policy that this government wants to pursue now or is now in the process of conducting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u250	I have a more prosaic question. I asked yesterday whether, when there are steps in the right direction in the budget or in the Tax Plan, Mr Baudet is going to support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u251	My answer hasn't changed since yesterday. It is not the case that we have now completed all the discussions overnight, but I can say that unfortunately the chance of us changing has become less, now that GroenLinks has become known to support this cabinet on every front. I think it is a legitimate decision by GroenLinks, in the sense that we have been calling for the VVD to be effective in implementing GroenLinks policy. So yes, GroenLinks has little reason to oppose it. That, of course, weakens our negotiating position. That's obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u252	So I understand that you are going to vote against the burden relief for middle groups, that you really do not want to make that possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u253	I believe that I am being lured here in a very ingenious way in advance of this debate. We will, of course, assess all the government's proposals and so on on their own merits, and we have always done so. That goes without saying. The vote of the Forum for Democracy is only greater, weighs more, when the cabinet needs it to reach a majority. We would have very much liked to have seen a situation in which, by the way, the cabinet had said: it is nice that GroenLinks supports us, but we still want to talk to the Forum for Democracy, because we really do not want to move further to the left, but perhaps a step more rationally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u254	Finalizing, Mr. Slootweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u255	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I understand. If you vote against the Tax Plan, you will simply vote against the reduction of the burden on the middle groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u256	I do not understand how this sentence follows from what I said, but in general the sentence is correct. It corresponds to something that can happen in reality. We will just try to get the maximum out of our voters, in every way. I will conclude with a regrettable wink to Mr Snels, who had the opportunity to speak with me here. He would've looked forward to it. I'm here, but he's still sitting in his chair.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u257	This brings us to the end of the second term of office. I shall suspend the Chamber until 5:55 p.m. and then we will receive the response of the rulers, including the response to all 23 motions tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u258	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the General Financial Reviews. We need the second term from the government. I call the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u259	Mr President, thank you. I will deal with the questions and comments that remain in my area and then with the motions that lie in my area. Then I'll hand the stick over to the Secretary of State, with your permission, of course. Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the second-term comments. I'm just gonna do it on a spokesperson basis. I would like to begin by thanking Mrs De Vries once again for her comments on the middle class. It was also about windfalls and the position of the middle class. I'd be happy to tell her to see if we can set them up. In any case, I understood her request for another commitment. I would also like to thank her for understanding the difficult package, given the earlier exchange of views I had with her predecessor, on why we cannot go beyond that. But in my opinion, we both think it is really sensible, by the way, with many others, that we have been able to do a lot in the past summer in terms of reducing burdens. Mrs De Vries, like Mr Sneller, was'mild critical' of what should be done in the SZW and VWS budgets. They actually found... Well, I think I should repeat yesterday's wording: it is an encouragement to interfere more. I will. Or should I say the wording of the day before yesterday, from the other debate we had. In the area of VWS, I have been very active in this, particularly in the first year of the cabinet. But I will ensure that I continue to do so, and I am naturally happy to be available to the Chamber to explain that myself. That brings me to Mr Snels. I would like to thank him for his summary just now. I was somewhat under the impression that he was trying to stretch the commitment to Rabobank beyond the limits of what I can reasonably do. He also referred to party political colour. I must, of course, say immediately that I am a simple servant of the Crown; he knows that. Furthermore, I do not have to comment on each of the pieces again, but I am going to honour the commitment I made in the first term. And I would also like to thank him and his group very much for their input in the field of sex police and youth centres of expertise, because I believe that this is a gain in terms of substance. I would also like to thank Mr Slootweg for his words. I have already promised him and a number of others that we will return to the possibilities of lower debt. I think that was when I came up with the term "the four S's," and that was about four spokesmen whose last name starts with an S. I will keep that promise. As far as I had not already said it explicitly, I would also like to say to Mr Slootweg the letter on everything I have mentioned about the agency. I would also like to broaden one point. In the debate on the interruption with Mr Azarkan, who is no longer in the Chamber, I also said something about interest rates. But honour is due: many others, including Mr Slootweg, have also referred to it. I have therefore highlighted this myself in the debate on the interruption, but that is a commitment which I might as well have made to others and which, of course, also belongs to the whole Chamber. I would like to thank Mr Sneller for his comment on climate change. It is certainly true that the Secretary of State and I are both pulling that out of port with our colleagues. Honesty commands me to say that the Secretary of State does so at least as much as I do, if not anymore. I would also like to thank Mr Sneller for his support and enthusiasm for investment. Mr. Chairman. I would like to point out to Mr Van Raan that I would like to send him a copy of the plan, or the report, in the area of that beautiful booklet, because that might go wrong on the route towards 2106. I try to consider which of Mr Van Raan's future family members I can sew in the suit, but I will come back to that. I would like to say to Mr Nijboer once again that I sincerely believe that I appreciate the counter-budget very much. It may seem more vicious than it was: I sincerely complimented him on his first term. And no, today may have been less successful than ever before in getting closer to each other, but frankly my impression is that I make promises to Mr Nijboer very often, also because I think he often has a good point in content. That's what I wanted to remind him of. Mr. Chairman. I thank Mr Bruins for his quote from Lieftinck, that you should not spend infinitely from a finite source. I think it's so beautiful that I'm going to shamelessly plagiarize it, whether or not it's from the source. I thank him very much for his words on the fund, but also on other things in the second term. Mr. Chairman. As far as I am concerned, the profit of the debate is in any case the broad support I think I have for the budgets and for the direction of the cabinet. This also applies to the very broad support, also far beyond the coalition, for the intention to make structural changes to the earning capacity through the Growth Letter, which is the prime of the Minister of Economic Affairs and Climate Policy, and to the investment fund, where the Minister of EZ and I work together. Thank you very much for that. It is also very pleasant that many spokesmen have recalled exactly what the Minister of EZK and I see as our important challenges, namely: ensuring good governance and ensuring good criteria. It is very pleasant that the financial spokesmen really want to pull together with the cabinet in full, or almost in full, breadth. Mr. Chairman. Which brings me to the motions. The first motion is the motion in part No. 50 by Mr Van Dijck. I'm gonna have to dissuade him. There's been a pension agreement. The Minister for Social Affairs has also made commitments to look at unnecessary discounts. The second motion in part No. 51 by Mr Van Dijck is on an issue that we have dealt with more often. It won't surprise him: I have to dissuade him, also because there is no cover for it. The third motion in part No. Mr Alkaya's 52 is in fact a request for additional relief without cover. I'm gonna have to dissuade him. The next motion in part No. 53 is about wages that are lagging behind growth. I must also advise against this motion. In my opinion, it flows directly from the counter-budget, and is therefore quite consistent, but the cabinet makes really different choices here. The good news is that wages have reached the highest point in ten years. I also agree with the authors of this motion that even more wage growth would be helpful. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). It is about broad prosperity and how we can look at costs and benefits and societal impact. It's gonna be a good time to puzzle how we're gonna do that. If I look at the information density in the motion alone, I think Mr Sneller will see that for himself. But I can give the motion judgment room. I hope that we will be able to implement this in a good way if the motion is adopted. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 55 I must advise against. That is, in fact, the discussion about the counter-budget. I would like to refer to the debate. The motion in part No. 56 ditto. I have tried to explain how the technical processing works and why the cabinet thinks it is sensible. On the motion in part No. 57 the Secretary of State is coming back, because he said something about this in the first term. The motion in part No. 58 I can judge Chamber, because attention to these risks is important in itself. But I will translate the motion in such a way that I see it as an encouragement to the parties involved and that I will convey it to them, but no more than that. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 59 is complicated. To be honest, I look at that with a negative basic attitude. If the motion is filed here, I'm gonna have to dissuade her. To be honest, it lends itself more to the budgetary treatment of LNV, but I am not very positive about it, especially because of the concept of 'ecocide'.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u260	There is an interruption by Mr Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u261	Then it becomes difficult, because the whole motion is about ecocide, and if you have trouble understanding it, I can imagine something about that. Let me just explain why the motion doesn't belong to LNV. It can be done there, but the way the financial system is put together and intervenes, here and now and actually everywhere, makes it appropriate to discuss the motion here. I'm just looking for the reason why this debate would be inappropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u262	I consider the motion to be inappropriate in general. I have serious objections to the term "ecocide." This motion states that in many places human beings cause large-scale damage to nature. Then it says: 'whereas there are little or no legal means to do anything about this'. That is another view of the author. The government is then asked to carry out an inventory study, which concerns the concept of "ecocide." But I can't find much financial-economic in it. That makes me inclined to discourage the motion, but I do not think it is the most appropriate motion in the General Financial Reviews either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u263	Mr. Van Raan. Could you perhaps state at once whether you wish to hold the motion, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u264	Yes, with the remark that the Minister of Finance is apparently not ready, because it is not a new concept. It's not our understanding. I'm gonna think about what we're gonna do with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u265	At the request of Mr Van Raan, I propose his motion (35300, No. 59). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u266	This immediately reminds me of Mr Van Raan's reassurance during the first part of the debate. He said that if I was wondering if I was late, he could reassure me, because I was definitely late.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u267	For this system.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u268	I have understood that in full width. I thought it was about my whole life, so that's how I interpreted it. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 60 also belongs to Mr Van Raan. I would also advise against this motion, because we are still busy formulating an answer to the Remkes Committee's report. The motion in part No. 61, I also advise against it. I really don't think that's feasible. That's really extremely complicated to determine. For example, what is the environmental damage caused by a teacher's salary or by a specific expenditure in the care sector? We might be able to do that by 2106, but for now, I'm not recommending the motion. Then the motion to part No. 62 by Mr Van Otterloo. To be honest, I have the same type of negative attitude as the motion for which Mr Van Raan just walked to the interrupting microphone. I think it's the most obvious thing to dissuade the motion. I would estimate the chance that the Minister of Economic Affairs might think otherwise too, but if Mr Van Otterloo would like to try his luck there, that would of course leave him free. If he doesn't hold the motion and file it here, I'm really gonna have to dissuade it. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 63 I advise against, because it has no cover. The motion in part No. 64 by Mr Van Otterloo, I also advise against. The wish is clear, but there is no cover and the cabinet has just made quite different choices. Then I come to Mr Baudet's three motions. Mr Baudet has tabled many more motions, but the Secretary of State also deals with a few. The motion in part No. 67 I do not recommend, referring to the Climate Agreement. The cabinet really has a different opinion than the Forum for Democracy Group. Then the motion to part No. 68. I would like to thank Mr Baudet very much for providing cover, but I must further discourage that motion. Same for the motion in part No. 69, referring to the Climate Agreement. The Secretary of State will deal with the motion in section No. 70. The motion in part No. 71, I also advise against it. Moreover, in another debate, I made a very specific commitment to the CDA, which I believe I have dressed further today. No, I have to put it more precisely. I repeated in the CDA's interruption debate what I promised Mrs Leijten, Mr Nijboer and, in my view, almost all the other spokesmen in the debate during the AA on the ECB. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 72, I'm not sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u269	For Mr Snels' peace of mind, I must say that I am aware of this, but nevertheless I wanted to table the motion because I would like the whole Chamber to vote on it. But I'm aware of that. I say this in particular to reassure Mr Snels, who is already involved, as it turned out earlier this afternoon.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u270	It is entirely up to Mr Baudet to decide what he wants or does not want to submit. It is up to me to give an opinion on the motions on behalf of the cabinet. And the judgment has been dissuaded. I have already said that this also applies to the motion on item No. 72. The same applies to the motion in part No. 73.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u271	I do not understand why your position on the possibility of compensating for negative interest rates also applies to the identification of the costs of mass immigration. What does that have to do with each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u272	Those motions have nothing to do with each other, but the verdict is the same. The last motion, the motion in part No. 73, has nothing to do with the substance of the previous motions, because it is about one's own risk, but also about this is the same opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u273	Do you want the verdict on the motion in part No. Seventy-two more explanations? Why do you not want to identify the costs of mass immigration?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u274	This question has also been submitted by the PVV, though along slightly different lines. I believe that the Prime Minister then responded on behalf of a lot of ministries. The practical objections raised by the cabinet were raised and the previous cabinet presented itself. That motion also had an echo in the past. My interpretation is that this gross modo is exactly the same question in another jacket. Besides...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u275	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u276	Mr. Baudet, the Minister needs to speak. Then I'll give you the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u277	Moreover, the costs of immigration policy in particular are simply included in the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u278	In conclusion, Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u279	The PVV has had a study done and so on. That's all about the long term. But this is purely about all the different items in the budget. There you can really break out by chapter what has to do with open borders: immigration, increased crime, the housing market that is under pressure, the greater need for care, educational disadvantage and so on. That's quite a split-up. This is different from a large-scale study of long-term costs and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u280	Yes, but the Chamber and Mr Baudet will also expect precision from me in such an answer. I sincerely believe that it is very complicated to break that out clearly, even because many posts are hiding information behind them again and because social costs are not easily calculated in this way. Mr Baudet seems to have the impression that he can, so of course he is also free to make his own calculation, as other groups have done. But the Cabinet doesn't see that possibility. I must also refer to the previous written exchange of views with the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u281	One more question, finalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u282	Really the very last one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u283	Would the cabinet then support a motion in which we ask an independent investigating agency to map this on our behalf?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u284	No, because a are hypothetical questions complicated to answer...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u285	I can change the motion in no time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u286	...and b responded to this motion. I answered this as a member of the cabinet. What Mr Baudet is doing as a political party is entirely responsible, risk and responsibility. That's really up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u287	Good. The minister's gonna stick to his judgment. Is he done with his part of the answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u288	Yes, because I think Mr Baudet thought that I was referring to his very last motion, that of item No. 74, explained in sufficient detail why it had to be discouraged. So I'm not adding anything else to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u289	That, I think, was the motion in part No. 73.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u290	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. In the enthusiasm I have given Mr Baudet one motion too much thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u291	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to the Secretary of State for Finance, who is going to give an opinion on the motions for resolutions on documents Nos. 67, 65, 66 and 70. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u292	I will do that, Mr President, but not after I have given one more answer to Mr Van Dijck. He explicitly asked for it and almost thought we didn't hear it, but we did. That is the answer I will give. The question was about marginal pressure. He referred to the Council of State, which also said something about this. Again, that point is well understood. The cabinet doesn't like what this marginal pressure looks like either. At the same time, as a cabinet, we tried to take a number of steps in that direction. We did. I explained those steps this afternoon. At the same time, with the research that we sent to the Chamber last week, we indicate that making choices in it is not so easy anymore. That marginal pressure's coming from somewhere. It's mostly because you want income support at the bottom. If you cut it down, what we do with different arrangements, you see the marginal pressure there. That's annoying in itself. You could solve that, I would say 'you are so', because we are clearly not choosing to do so by removing income support at the bottom. I don't think that's wise. Or you could do it by not going through the phasing-out paths until later, but then you can see, for example, that the marginal pressure will shift from where it is now to a little further down in the wage building. That has its drawbacks, too. In short, we think that the marginal pressure is not a pretty sight, and I agree with that, and we really want to do something about it. I have already indicated that I have listened carefully to what Mr Van Dijck said, but others have said today. We'll have it taken with us in the building blocks. It's kind of high on us, but it's not that easy to do that. So I thought I'd give it to you anyway. Then we'll go to the motions filed. I'll start with the motion in part No. 57 by Mr Nijboer. I'd like to dissuade it, especially because it's uncovered. I would, however, like to point out once again that we are very much in agreement on this point, the system of kick-off and the instability that this entails. Moreover, during the General Political Reviews, the Chamber adopted a motion for a resolution. I refer to that. The motion in part No. I would also advise against 65. We've been a little doubting whether it's a research motion or not. We read the motion again. I had already promised that we would include this section in the building blocks, but we believe that we should first have the information and then be able to make choices. I can't read the motion any differently, especially since it sends on outcomes by indicating a cover and by saying that it comes later in the process. That's why I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u293	An interruption by Mr Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u294	If I took the cover out, would the Secretary of State look at it differently?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u295	The motion, as we read now, is very much directed towards outcomes. I'm sorry to hear that. I had already made a commitment to part of the question that lies behind it. I made that commitment. Apparently, this motion goes even further than my commitment. So I think it's steering on outcomes, and I'd like to advise against that. I wouldn't do that with the motion in part No. 66. This is also a research move that is more based on this: what forms of funding could you look at and take with you? I'd like to give that motion a room for judgment. Here, too, I have already made a number of promises on this subject. The last motion I would like to make is Mr Baudet's motion on item No. 70. It says: we want the self-employed to remain as it is. The cabinet chooses to narrow it down a bit. We are seeing a number of developments in the labour market which make us think that the difference or gap between the self-employed and the employee has become too large and leads to undesirable labour market situations. We'll take that one step at a time. I would also like to point out that the reduction in working hours is being increased at the same time. The self-employed person is therefore also entitled not to decline on balance. I don't think that's unimportant. I can't resist giving a little economics lesson: the fact that entrepreneurs want to take extra risks should not generally be solved with taxation, but that should bring the entrepreneur into his price. It's the best way to get your entrepreneurial risk off a reward. But that might be for another time. All in all, we dissuade this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u296	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the discussion of the General Financial Reviews.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u297	We are going to vote on the motions that have been tabled next Tuesday 8 October 2019. The budget itself will not be voted on until 3 December 2019, equal to all other budgets, including the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u298	Let me make a comment. As it may be clear, but it has not been established, we would like to put the Krol motion to the vote on Tuesday. The G.B.J. Hiltermann variant.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-9.u299	We will take that and then the motion will be on the voting list next Tuesday.
