ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u1	I now give the floor to Mr Futselaar on behalf of the SP for his question to the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality, whom I would also like to welcome. The question is about ignoring warnings about the nitrogen statement by the Ministry. Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands stands still because of the nitrogen crisis. Our natural areas are languishing, thousands of necessary homes are not being built, construction companies are in trouble and jobs are on the way. Farmers, nature organisations, builders and governments; everyone is looking at The Hague in search of solutions and leadership. But they look in vain, because those solutions and that leadership seem to be absent. However, on Monday in the Volkskrant we saw a worrying reconstruction of the state of affairs at the Ministry of Agriculture. It sketches a disenchanting picture of a ministry suffering from tunnel vision, which waved away bad news, whether from lawyers, from scientists or from governments, because there was nothing outside the Programme Approach Nitrogen, the PAS. We see stories of civil servants who have to rely only on positive scenarios. We're seeing reports that the minister doesn't reach. Instead of taking into account the worst outcomes when a process threatens, only positive outcomes are considered. Mr. Chairman. The Minister said in her response: no, we did take bad scenarios into account. If it is, it's actually much worse. Then why didn't there be a plan in May to tackle the nitrogen crisis? Why did a Remkes committee have to be set up? Why are we all trying to figure things out today: what are the biggest peak loaders, what is legally possible for threshold values? Why didn't all that happen a long time ago? Mr. Chairman. The SP Group has created an image that this ruler has lost control of the nitrogen dossier. It is at the head of a ministry that has been focused for years only on granting some permits and not on the legal and environmental problems with the policy. I would like to ask the Minister the following question. Does it consider that in May it was adequately prepared for the outcome of that ruling or was it actually completely attacked? In other words, is the Minister prepared to admit that the Ministry has maintained the existing system for so long that there has been far too little work on solutions? The second question I would like to ask the Minister is whether she believes that enough has actually happened since May. What has actually been done to get out of this crisis over the past six months?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u3	I shall now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u4	Mr. Chairman. Already before and after the ruling of the European Court of Justice and the Administrative Court of the Council of State, my ministry has worked intensively with all the PAS partners and we are not alone; there are several PAS partners and the state attorney to see what could be the consequences of the rulings that were or would be made. At that time, we worked hard to improve and complement the support of the PAS, in line with the statement of the department of 17 May 2017. Let me outline a timeline. On 7 November 2018, the judgment of the European Court of Justice was published in response to the questions referred for a preliminary ruling by the section. The Court held that a legal system such as that of the PAS was permissible and that authorisation decisions for nitrogen deposition activities could in principle be based on that. The question whether the justification of the PAS was sufficient was referred back to the national court. Based on the opinion of the section, the PAS partners have decided not to grant licences themselves. That direction of thought was later confirmed by the Overijssel court. That month there was a provisional provision on a livestock permit and it was stated that the judgment of the European Court of Justice did not give rise to the suspension of licences. In short, on the basis of the judgment of the European Court of Justice, the system of the PAS could, but the justification had to be improved. We knew that, and we were working very hard to do that. At that time, most of the administrative capacity was deployed to improve and complement the support of the PAS. Is that the only scenario we've developed? No, all the scenarios were on the table. In any case, first before the judgment of the European Court of Justice and later before the ruling of the section. Those scenarios ranged from the full survival of the PAS to the complete demise of the PAS. With my letter of 28 October, I also sent you a report dated April 2018, in which you can read that all possible vulnerabilities of the PAS system have been looked at. Actions have also been identified to repair them if necessary. That report was again the basis for further scenario formation and actions in preparation for the ruling of the European Court, the hearing and then the ruling of the section. Those scenarios have been discussed with me. All scenarios have always been on the table in the administrative consultations with the PAS partners. In short, the scenarios have all been looked at and preparations have been made for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u5	That's very disturbing, isn't it? Because if there is indeed a report in April 2018 with "these are about the blackest outcomes that can be there" and a year later, in May, there is a court ruling that largely follows those black outcomes, you expect the ministry to be done with a course that we are going to follow to solve the problem as soon as possible, because it has been discussed. But that won't happen in May. What happens is that a committee is set up. He's been working on a report for months. That report comes out, there are a number of proposals in it, and everything still needs to be sorted out: where are the problems and what are the legal possibilities? I'd say, if you've got a doom scenario ready, make sure you've figured that out at the same time as the problem occurs. But it's like we're always chasing the facts. Can the Minister imagine that feeling?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u6	I would point out to Mr Futselaar that that committee was set up at the request of this Chamber. It is the Chamber itself that asked me to set up a committee on nitrogen problems to look at solutions to this problem. So I did exactly what the Chamber asked me to do. In addition, we have done a lot of business over the past period. We have worked hard to resume the authorisation in stages. The first step was taken with the letter of 13 September. Initiators were able to calculate their activities and projects on what kind of deposition they had from 16 September onwards. With the letter of 4 October, we took the second step by defining the framework for the granting of authorisation. As a result, the permits could be re-issued or reviewed. We have cases when the AERIUS calculator recalibrates. It was established on the basis of the old PAS. That didn't exist anymore, so we had to re-assess it. We are also in the process of expanding the nitrogen measurement network, as requested by the Chamber. We have made agreements with provinces about further nature restoration. Is that what we're dealing with? No. It is always going step by step, but we are working very hard to make this happen as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u7	It is a bit easy for the Minister to say that the Chamber wanted the Remkes Committee and to hide behind it. Of course, the Chamber would not have set up the Remkes Committee if the Minister had said at that time: I have a plan, I have a solution and here it is. That was not the case, so we looked at each other and asked: what are we going to do with this? I do have a question about the PAS partners, as the Minister calls them. Because also from the provinces, which are the main executives in this area, has come quite critically. I call the province of Brabant, the province of Overijssel. There seems to be a legal advice from Overijssel in this area. Is the Minister prepared to make public reports of IPO consultations with the Ministry, and communication? This opinion is also specifically mentioned by Overijssel. If these documents become public, we in the Chamber can also decide for ourselves how this went.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u8	In the various administrative consultations that I have indeed had with those PAS partners, we have always agreed on a common line. As I have just explained, there were different scenarios in our house as well as different critical considerations: is this sustainable, yes or no? They were also in the provinces, but in the end we have always determined in common what the line was. I think the reports from those administrative consultations were in a WOB request. I can see if I can make it public. That's a little different for the Overijssel report you call it. That Overijssel report is not a report, but an email from an official of Overijssel to an official of my ministry. It has been prepared on personal request and it has not been a policy position of the province of Overijssel. It lists legal risks. That piece was sent underhand, so not as an official piece of the province of Overijssel. I therefore do not think that I have the freedom to make that part public.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u9	I understand that explanation, but it is rather amazing that an opinion is given by one official to another official on a personal request. We look forward to the rest of the documents. I have one supplementary question. Is it true that the Minister has deviated from an official opinion prior to the ruling that, in the run-up to the final judgment, only provisional permits should be granted? And if it is true that the Minister has received that advice and has deviated from it, what was the argument for that deviation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u10	I have just explained that the question surrounding the ruling of the European Court of Justice was: what are we doing with the permits? We also discussed this with each other in the administrative consultation. The question was whether or not we should go through with it. The analysis at that time was that there was insufficient ground on the basis of the ruling of the European Court of Justice not to take over the authorisation. We were later confirmed by the ruling of the Overijssel court. He then said: the Court's ruling does not in itself have sufficient grounds for refusing to grant authorisation. So in that sense, that's a line that has also been confirmed by the judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u11	Thank you, Mr. Fuzzler. Mrs Bromet asks a question on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u12	Mr. Chairman. On 29 May we took note of the judge's ruling. And immediately that same day, GroenLinks already knew what had to be done, namely less flying, slower driving and fewer cattle, in order to create space for the construction of more homes and for the restoration of nature. Six months have passed and now it appears that there was also a document for this black scenario. That's what the minister gave us. It contains requested actions with every ruling that could have been expected. And the action requested in the final ruling is that immediately after the Court's decision the PAS partners should take a policy position, with a decision in principle on the progress of the authorisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u13	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u14	I have the following questions for the Minister. What policy position has been taken? And what decision in principle has been taken?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u15	I have just given the answer to a question on authorisation following the ruling of the European Court of Justice in response to questions put by Mr Futselaar. It has been decided that the Court's judgment did not provide sufficient ground for the total suspension of the authorisation. That was also confirmed by the Overijssel court. And after the ruling of the Council of State on 29 May, the authorisation was suspended.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u16	The Animal Party objects to the Minister's attitude in this debate, a bit of 'yes, afterward it is nice to live', while we can now see that there were indeed analyses. We can see that because journalists have started WOB procedures. Was there anyone at the Ministry who came up with the idea after the analysis in April 2018 to map out where the major polluters were? Let me give you an example. Why did the Minister have to wait until the Remkes Committee said: perhaps it is a good idea to map out where the major polluters are?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u17	I have just explained that the ruling of the European Court of Justice found that a legal system such as that of the PAS was permissible in itself and that the authorisation decisions, i.e. the authorisation of the nitrogen deposition activities, could in principle be based on that. The Court did say that the national court had to look again at the justification. There was a need to improve on this. We saw that, too. Most of the effort was then aimed at bringing that forward, to make sure that we could actually show that what we did could last.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u18	But of course it doesn't get any better. We can now see what a great chaos that looks away, that "we must only support it" attitude has resulted, but it is still not clear what should happen, at least not for the cabinet. For the Party for Animals it is clear: fewer animals, less speeding, Lelystad Airport not open, no formula 1. GroenLinks just said it, too. There are a lot of people for whom the cliff-and-ready is what you need to do to move the housing projects smoothly and protect nature, but it is still not clear to the Ministry. We are going to have a follow-up debate on this, so this is my last question for now: are there any other documents that the Minister has not shared with the Chamber? Are we gonna find out if journalists bother to wobble? Would it be possible to get a look at what the Ministry has done and why?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u19	I think everything I'm communicating here is what the Ministry has done or hasn't done. Every day, really every day, all kinds of official analyses are being prepared. They serve as a basis for advice to me, for scenario formation, for decision-making memos and so on. I will then also let the Chamber know what decisions it is concerned with. If the Chamber now wants all the documents on it, I would really like to ask her to be more specific about it, because if I have to send all the documents over all the years, that is an incredible amount. I do not think that does justice to the situation we are in today. I'm mostly working right now to make sure we get things back on track. I hope the Chamber feels that urgency too. We just need to figure that out. I have already written in my letter of 28 October that there will be two evaluation times, one at the request of the First Chamber and the policy evaluation announced by the Remkes Committee itself. Those seem to me to be the moment to discuss this further.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u20	I understand the Minister's dilemma, but we would like to know how it all came about, also in order to prevent a new proposal from revealing that in the past there have already been ways of solving it. When we come back with a decision, an emergency law or whatever, when we have not learned from the past, that does not help us. Then we'll be six months away and we'll have the same problem again. The question to the Minister is therefore to give it as much information as possible, so that we can see, when we come to a solution, what has already been looked at in vain in the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u21	You can count on us to look as closely as possible at all the proposals we are going to put forward to ensure that they are legal. We have nothing to do with doing something now that is not legally sustainable. That's the normal procedure you go through with all the decisions. You do that, for example, on the basis of the Council of State. We also asked for information on the threshold. Based on that, we'll figure out if it's a path we can and should take. I do not know whether all evaluations of everything that has happened to the PAS in all past years have added value to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u22	Governing is forward-looking. That goes for everyone, but especially for a minister, I think. All the signals were on dark yellow or red, in all those scenarios. In one instance, the entire licensing process is stalled. There were scenarios, but there were no plans, so no plan A, no plan B, and no plan C to tackle this urgent problem that affects a lot of people. Isn't the real reason why the minister was just politically paralyzed in the coalition? She herself acknowledged on 4 October last in a broadcast by Nieuwsuur that you need a ruling first in order to feel the urgency.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u23	I have not felt politically paralyzed at all. I'm just doing my job. I'm just doing this right now and I really want to keep doing it to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-29-tweedekamer-4.u24	Thank you.
