ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u1	The next item is the budget for Health, Welfare and Sport. We have nineteen participants on the side of the Chamber, so we're gonna sit down for a while. I hope you all have enough mints and so on. A warm word of welcome to the rulers. I see two, but there's gotta be three. The third one's gonna be here for a while. I understand that the Ministers and the Secretary of State intend to respond very pointy and to the point tomorrow. Especially Mr De Jonge seems to have been practicing this throughout the summer. We have all seen the images with his shortness coach: "that sentence can still come out"; "no, we delete that paragraph." Tomorrow we're gonna see how that all works out. The expectations are high. And because we'll be done pretty soon, Mrs. Arib said to me: well, Martin, then you can sit in front of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u2	Nineteen participants from the Chamber. I am delighted to give the floor to the first speaker on the side of the Chamber. That is Mrs Agema from the Group of the Party for Freedom. She has a total of 30 minutes of speaking time. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u3	That is not very concise, Mr President. Sometimes you have to take a little more time to explain things. That is what we do every year in the budget debate. Mr. Chairman. Those who read the healthcare budget could get the impression that the directors are in good shape. The directors write that they are working on accessible and affordable care that is noticeably improving for people. People have to take control of themselves. They want to ensure that care is in line with what people really need. Care in which the méns is central. People, indeed, should care about that, but it's not about people that often anymore. It's all about systems, here in this house, but also in practice. Everyone drowns in the systems, like a button is placed on the shoulder and every time they press it, the correct system response rolls out. You'd think you'd have an oiled care system, but do you have an oiled system if you have to finish three hospitals and a doctor's office with a girl who got a pallet on her hand in a grocery store? Did you have to wait for an oiled system as paramedics on the escape lane to find a place in a hospital for the patient who's fighting in their hands for his life? Do you have an oiled system like the construction worker who was attached to the emergency room a day earlier, with his complications being sent away to the general practitioner's office? Do you have an oiled system when you have to give birth and are put on the train with labor, because the department of acute obstetrics is closed and you have to travel to another hospital for at least an hour? Do you have an oiled system if you're no longer welcome at the hospital around the corner because of a budget meeting between the hospital and your health insurance company? Do you have an oiled system when there is a total pill chaos because drugs are suddenly no longer available? Do you have an oiled system when you have to call off 36 nursing homes for one patient or if you're in the hospital for 100 days because you have nowhere else to go? Do you have such a beautiful oiled system when you as a couple are separated from each other after a marriage of 70 years? People don't get helped anymore. They travel from hot to her and are sent from the cabinet to the wall because of the system. They are no longer part of the system; they are the victims of it. Directors have a button like that on their shoulder. With every question, every interruption, a prepared system response rolls out. If you ask around about the people behind the systems, you get cheated. Recently, for example, it appeared that on the island of Voorne-Putten the driving times for ambulances are structurally not meeting the legal standards and are therefore taking irresponsible risks. I asked Minister Bruins what this means for his system responsibility, when the legal standards will be met and what the consequences will be if they do not succeed. He repeatedly grieved the same system response, but took no responsibility. Not for those who fight for their lives in the ambulances and not for the paramedics who have fewer and fewer emergency rooms where they can take their patients. He just didn't. Everyone knows how the system works, everyone has a button with all the system answers underneath, but nobody wants to see that the system doesn't work so often. When I spoke to my partner about this last week, he pointed out to me the rubble of eight years of Purple, of Pim Fortuyn. At the time, Fortuyn could not have described the care more accurately. I quote: 'This is how the political culture in this country is structured, no one is responsible, let alone taking responsibility, not even if he is placed in the first place'. Fortuyn saw the polder model as the cause of all this suffering, because there was talk until everyone was more or less in agreement and responsibilities were evaporated. Fortuyn wrote: "Afterwards, we have done it "all together" and nobody can be taken into account for the results and therefore not for failing policies." That is exactly what these rulers do. Everything is "together," but it's never about all of us. It is always only the political and administrative elites, the people of their own circle, the representatives of the outside parliamentary networks. The people involved will not be involved. They are always spoken of, they are always decided. Ministers are so proud of the fact that so many policies are being developed "together" with representative organisations. In the first 33 pages of the budget, the word "together" occurs 60 times. How painful it is to ignore the people who it should actually be about, we have seen in recent times, for example, in the mistake of V&VN on the BIG II Act, or in the Prevention Agreement. Everyone with the right opinion above us got a place at a consultation table, but the people about who it is about are smokers, drinkers and people who like too much good food. It's over them and without them. It is sad to note that this problem is still as big as it was when Pim Fortuyn identified it so many years ago. When's the human size coming back, starting with the prime minister in the ministry? Mr. Chairman. After years of hysterical estimates and the disastrous consequences they had, the directors admit that care costs have increased less than expected in recent years, even less than economic growth. How fatally wrong those estimates were, they leave out. The forecast was that healthcare costs would grow by 4.4% per year between 2012 and 2017. It was 0.5% a year. It's a crazy big difference. Because of all that hysteria, degradation came first, while in fact there was no reason to do so. However, that hysteria is fully maintained. Also in this budget, the mantra appears "if we do nothing, then..." again. It's a fake mantra, because basically everyone does something. Klink, Bussemaker, Schippers, Veldhuijzen van Zanten, Van Rijn, Bruins and De Jonge: they all did something, all do something. This kind of dogma is only meant to stir things up, to stir up hate for care, to get the noses in the same direction, to poison public opinion, to break down even more concern. But here too, it's only the political-administrative elites that want it. The Social and Cultural Planning Bureau recently asked the ordinary people again. Three quarters of people think that the government should spend a lot more money on improving care. But these people aren't being heard. Those standard phrases also make no sense, for example the mantra that, if we do nothing, we spend twice as much money on care in 2040. Not only did I argue that successive directors all do something, the context of the finances is also completely omitted. The context of GDP. After all, if GDP is twice as high in 2040, then nothing is going on. The fact is that we don't have a glass ball and that predictions are hard to make. The long-term affordability of care depends on so many things, on the growth of GDP, on the choices we make on the rich budget, on innovations, on diseases that we can control or cure. We don't know what's happening, and we certainly can't say anything about it for the 20-year period. The affordability falls or stands with the preservation, cherishing, reshaping and perfecting of the systems we have. The dumbest thing you can do is throw it overboard in a panic. Besides the care is the real profit. Do parties choose care or choose billions for climate, mass immigration, development aid or Europe payments? If they choose the latter, then you are sure that there will eventually be too little money left for care. Mr. Chairman. Apparently the gentlemen in box-K have thrown down the axe and a lot of demolition laws are coming to the Chamber in the near future, because the drama queens create the following major problem of concern: organizationalism! They write that the number of potential carers is decreasing in relation to the growing demand for care and that the total labour force is also shrinking. Now one in seven people works in care, by 2040 that should be one in four. They rightly conclude that such an appeal to the labour market is totally unrealistic. But why do they keep repeating this dogma? Why is it being thrown in the ears? Why don't they just get to work? Why don't they take responsibility? Why do they keep shoving them off? Why do they write about leadership when they don't catch it at all? Mr. Chairman. Three proposals. During the Accountability debate, it appeared that the number of staff with patient contact in our academic hospitals is only less than half. It also affects ordinary hospitals. Next to the hospital is often an equally large building with only administrative staff. If you do that over the next few decades, you already have some of the employees you need extra, so these people are already on the payroll. Second. We have received the letter from Minister De Jonge about my proposal to merge rates in nursing homes at a rate. I had asked the Minister not only to pick out people who hate me, but it obviously did not succeed. If you put the rates together to a rate, that saves a third of the indications. For those institutions that now have an even higher average mix of residents, you simply apply a transitional arrangement. That's how you do it. I say don't create dramas when you truly want to reduce the administration that employees spend so much time on. You don't just have to pick some low-hanging fruit, you have to pick all the fruit. These people are already on the payroll. Play their hands free. My third proposal. The average overhead in long-term care institutions has increased from 13% to over 16%. The best performing institutions are between 5% and 7%. If we can get them all to 7%, we are no longer talking about 30,000 employees who can continue to carry out an executive task, but we are talking about 50,000. And these people are already on the payroll. So what's the minister waiting for? The constant repulsion against this kind of proposal is not only regrettable, it also becomes annoying. Please stop creating drama stories if you are not prepared to take responsibility and only launch childish plans from the opposition. We can also see it in the trendy action plan (Ont)regel de Zorg. The pressure of regulation is only increasing. 35% of the time employees in long-term care are lost to administration. Play their hands free. I also have a fourth proposal. We would like the Minister's promise that he will find out what a full-time bonus would cost, what that would yield and how we could achieve it. We know that the part-time factor in health care is 0.6 and that we need everyone and as many people as possible to work full-time for that big problem of organisability. It's a voluntary arrangement. We are thinking of a 5% bonus per full-time working quarter for everyone working in healthcare. We would like to hear from the Minister whether he is prepared to make this commitment. Again, these people are already on the payroll. Mr. Chairman. Then care for the elderly. The directors have a completely different solution to this organizational problem. It is breakdown and is sold to us under the sounding title: the right care in the right place. We read in the budget that the directors see in practice that the collaboration between the domains of the Health Insurance Act, the Youth Act, the Social Support Act and the Long-Term Care Act leaves to be desired, causing people to get in trouble and professionals to work side by side unintentionally. Although this is the right analysis, we can see that a counter-policy has been in place since 2007. After all, care for the elderly was organized in one hand at the time, but the AWBZ had to be destroyed. Household help had to go to the municipalities, the district care and the health care services to the Health Insurance Act and the nursing homes had to close. 'Cause that's why it's such a mess. That's why everyone's looking for something between home and nursing home. That's why Minister De Jonge gets so excited about all those different cars from all those different providers at all those senior apartments. His own CDA caused it. Our vulnerable system of care for the elderly had to be destroyed. The household aid, the macro budget, was halved in 2015, but because the budget is already rising, household care has to be destroyed even further. Minister De Jonge comes with a legislative amendment that introduces the "clean house" criterion. There's nothing as arbitrary as the term "clean house." We'll all find something different about that. But in blind care hate even the most crazy things are possible. The nursing homes were destroyed under the dogma that no one wanted to live there anymore. Now they're terribly missed. The current situation is very acute and very acute. It is as Mrs Schuringa recently said in De Gelderlander: "We now sometimes come into contact with people who are so upset, we did not see that before. At the end they lived like a wanderer in their own house: dehydrated, thinned, polluted, completely confused." The situation is so serious that 13% of the so-called E33 police reports about people with confused behavior suffering from dementia. These are people for whom until barely five years ago a place in a nursing home could be searched, if for the second time they were picked confused and naked off the street. The "longer home" turned out to be a false dogma of a chattering political elite. It had nothing to do with the people that mattered: they remained unsaved. And although everyone is now crying at the broken foundations that once stood on our nursing homes, we know that they are broken to never come back. Is Minister De Jonge doing something about this great social problem? No. In the meantime, Minister De Jonge's problems have increased many times. Already, almost 18,000 people are on a waiting list for a place in the nursing home. These are very heavy patients. They need 24-hour surveillance and nursing. They're bedridden. They're on their last trip, but there's no place for them right now. And 500 more every month. In addition, De Jonge needs another 100,000 nursing homes for heavy dementia patients until 2040. Where do these places come from? No one knows. Does he have a plan? No, he just has a lot of paper. It's meaningless bullshit: the municipalities this, the regions that, the minister of BZK so, the institutions; everyone has to do something. But yes, he writes in the budget about leadership. He writes that leadership is needed to move to another organization. Seriously? For a minister, there is nothing more practical than building buildings. That's planning. That's what a government's for. But no, there's nothing concrete, there's no plan. And in the meantime, 500 people are added to that waiting list for those nursing homes every month. That reveals the greatest pain: the ministers have been devoured by their own systems. The responsibility is always elsewhere. System responsibility means nothing more than always to blame the system. Systems collapse, employees are made robots and patients suffer. And, ladies and gentlemen, we note this two decades before the end of the great peak of ageing. The most disgusting lie when it comes to our nursing homes is that of sufficient staff. The deficits are high. About 2 billion euros was needed for loving care. Freely translated, the quality framework had to take care of about two employees out of eight people during peak times. Meanwhile, the number of nursing home residents is growing harder than the extra budget released, and the deficit is spread over all residents. So even before the promise is fulfilled, it's already put overboard. The promised quality framework will never be achieved. That's the way it is with election promises. In this case, on their very last journey, our elders are dumped next to the election flyers in the garbage. And De Jonge, with his fist on the table to keep his promise, the promise of everyone, of every party here in the house, the promise we made together? No, he's sending a legislative amendment to the Chamber to give politics the last word on the budget. What leadership! Finally, the nursing home residents were rescued from the political grip of wave movements that made making the making available or not sufficient resources for sufficient staff dependent on political decisions. Finally, it was an objectively established quality framework that was about it. But no, that's gotta be broken. Budgetary treatment gives us every year the opportunity to explain how we want to regulate care for the elderly. We want the seven steps of care for the elderly to come back into one hand. The first step is the maid's help. On average, our older people are 82.5 years old when they call on us. Doing the household is not good anymore: it is too much, it is too heavy and too many things remain. The second, third and fourth steps concern community care, community care and counselling. At some point, living at home becomes heavier: washing, dressing, combing hair, eating and drinking. They're gonna call on us for care. Later on, nursing activities and guidance are added to the daily administrative problems, when people begin to demente. The fifth and sixth steps are the nursing homes and nursing homes. After an older person has been using domestic help, care and nursing in a residential home for a few years, he or she can live in the adjacent nursing home if more care and supervision are needed. When someone gets bedridden, they can live in the nursing department, usually in the same house, in their own neighborhood. Couples can live together like this. The beginners from the neighborhood can go to the daily business, the mature can find meaning as a volunteer and the elderly from the neighborhood can have a bite to eat in the restaurant. The seventh step is the palliative terminal care, in which everything revolves around a worthy end of life. Call me a dreamer, but we had this fragile system of care for the elderly well arranged. Then why are you tearing it down? If you organize care more easily by, for example, reducing the number of faces, Minister De Jonge, which can reduce the overhead considerably, the care becomes better: better to organize, cheaper and with more satisfied patients. Until 2007, the seven steps of care for the elderly were in one hand: that was settled in the AWBZ. Now everything's shredded. Now everything's broken. Mr. Chairman. Then the curative care. Now that the system of care for the elderly has been broken down, the hospital care system is up. The directors write that they want less care between the walls of hospitals and more closer to people at home. The government's objective is that in 2030, that is already in ten years' time, care will be 50% more frequent in its own environment rather than in an institution. This is beyond comprehension. If the number of elderly people doubles and the question of care, why are you tearing down the system? Why don't you just call the beast by the name? Why do you call it "the right care in the right place"? Why don't you be honest with me about throwing the towel in the ring and breaking down our care system because you think there's gonna be no more money? For the past five years, 15 emergency services and obstetrics departments have closed down. And the end of this degradation is far from coming. Worse, due to the 0% volume growth in 2022, more especially small hospitals, including the Bronovo, are a very popular hospital. The fact that this policy is an insane capital destruction at a time when the number of elderly people and the question of care are going to double, I repeat, cannot be understood. The fact that the coalition parties continue to support this is even worse to understand. And the fact that the CDA even wrote an own-initiative paper on the importance of local hospitals is completely insane. Because of their support for the volume growth reduction, these local hospitals will fall one by one. Anyway, let's talk about the idea of "the right care in the right place." Imagine, you're that specialist who actually thinks it's fun to start for himself. Nice, in the neighborhood. You're gonna do exactly what the program wants. You find a nice location, you set up your own toko, you walk in the morning with a cup of coffee and a newspaper under your arm to work. You feel happy for a moment. And then what? End well, all right? Well, certainly not. 'Cause the hospital you've been faithful to for the last 40 years isn't going to cooperate, it's working against. Your patients won't even know where you're going. Maybe he died, they think. "Competition clause" they call it. You need to get a lawyer to get rid of the institute. Your location is considered a mini-hospital by the inspection, so you will be tested on 93 inspection conditions. I can do that. You're dealing with about 400 institutions, from suppliers to manufacturers to insurers to I don't know what. Half of your colleagues who wanted to make the jump have already dropped out and are already on the sidewalk at the hospital asking for their job back. They want to fix people, not play entrepreneurship. Anyway, you're holding on. Nice every morning with your cup of coffee and your paper under your arm to your place! You get 70% of the price of the hospital, because you're not a hospital, but you can do that. Then the insurance companies come to mess things up. One short you with another 40% extra, the other with another 50%. No reason. They only pay half the bill, but you have to pay your suppliers in full, and your rent, your staff, your licenses, and you name it. Along with your colleagues, you're going to trial until the Supreme Court. It's in your favor, specialists. Do insurers pay the bill of EUR 3 billion which is now open? No, they're going to Secretary Bruins for a law change. And Bruins, what's he doing? Is he stopping this insane undermining of his "right care in the right place"? Is he going to make sure that the insurance companies that are going to spend 3 billion on all those specialists who are implementing exactly what they want so badly? My prediction is that the program will be a complete failure and that in a number of years we will be standing here at the shrapnel of what was once our hospital care. And then you're all crying, just like you do when it comes to the nursing homes. The perpetrators are then in the cemetery, the patient is screwed and our oldest are the child of the account. Then who's responsible? Then who feels responsible? And who's gonna take responsibility? We think the system should look like this. The GP refers the patient to the hospital, to the county hospital. That's a full-fledged hospital, including policy, bedroom, operating rooms, emergency rooms, and a department of acute obstetrics. There is a direct line between specialist and general practitioner. In the case of complex care, the specialist sends the patient to a specialised hospital. The specialists from the local hospital are in close contact with those from the specialized hospital in preparation for their return to care. An example. A patient in his 50s is suffering from heart problems and is being treated for a long time by the cardiologist at the regional hospital. Somewhere in his 60s, it turns out he's going through open-heart surgery. He is referred to a high-specialist hospital where they often perform this operation. A few days after the operation he is transported back to the local hospital by ambulance. The care there is easier, his family and friends can visit him more easily and the highly specialised hospital has another bed free for the next patient who needs open heart surgery. Example 2. A patient with back pain reports to the emergency department of the county hospital. The patient appears to have acute aneurysm. The patient is transported by ambulance to a high-specialist hospital and operated within two hours. A few days later, the patient is transported back to the local hospital. Example 3. A patient reports to the E.R. at the regional hospital with dizzys. It appears to have a dangerously low hemoglobin level. This is a common, life-threatening but well- treatable condition. The patient is admitted, gets a bag of blood, the omeprazole gets better tuned and after a few days the patient goes home. And he hasn't taken a bed in a specialized hospital. This is very simple, Mr. Chairman. I wish we had this! But it has to be broken. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna finish up. Perhaps the listener did not hear me specifically talk about disability care, Fokuswonen, ggz, sport, youth, war victims and all the other things that come under my portfolio. The good hearer has heard that my reflections of today concern the whole concern. Care is human work. I thank every caretaker from the bottom of my heart for all the work they do for others, for all the times they turned in their day off to take care of their people anyway. I wish them all the best and a big raise, because that would be a good reason for rising care costs! Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you. One more question from Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u5	I would like to ask Mrs Agema about a proposal presented by the SP last week. It's about the affordability of care. We have proposed that the care premium should be set at zero and that the risk should be eliminated. So we're going to pay the cost of care from the taxes. My question to Mrs Agema is whether the PVV would support that proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u6	Well, at least I wouldn't reject it directly, because I think it's okay to think about how you organize the system at macro level. But what I do find to be a weakness is that this proposal is really about the system again, while the system is intrinsically very expensive. For example, the dbc-systematic and the need to write is what makes care expensive. So your proposal says: cancel the healthcare premium, the care allowance and your own risk and settle it through taxes. Maybe that's a better idea to do, but that needs to be worked out more. The ex-post wasn't calculated by the CPB. What I also see is that, on balance, it costs EUR 2 billion in structural terms. So I am not against it; I would like to study it better, but I do think that you focus on the system, the organisation of the system, rather than on what actually makes the system so expensive and what is so annoying. So...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u7	These are, of course, two different discussions. We've talked about that a lot. We have always said: take this market operation out of the system, take out the profits, take out the competition. Then you're also going to take out a lot of excess bureaucracy and excess costs. And if that leads to a cost reduction, which I think it will, then of course you will have to collect less money for the care. And then in the end you also have to pick up less from the taxes. But I welcome Mrs Agema's answer. Well, there's an opening there, so I'm happy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u8	Your cover's a little rough. Your coverage is that 20% of the people with the highest incomes are going to pay 4% more. I think that is very rough, so I do not support that, but your proposal is a little more modest. That tipping point could be somewhere else. So I'm not against it, but I don't support it in the rough as it is now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u9	Little nuance. Should be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u10	Yes. From the PVV, huh, Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u11	Yes. It almost scares me! Thank you. Then we are going to listen to Mr Veldman from the VVD group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u12	Mr. Chairman. The budget for Health, Welfare and Sport is one of the most appealing budgets of the year. That is, of course, because this budget covers a whole human life. From birth to their final stage of life, people face elements from this budget, and that makes this budget special. I would like to begin my contribution with an example of concern which I also thought would not be possible yet. In the Mercy Virtual near Saint Louis in Missouri 900 people work and the number of patients there is zero. The hospital has complete medical teams and all equipment to monitor patients remotely. This happens both for a number of intensive care units as well as monitoring patients with COPD, diabetes and heart problems at home. In short, this is about top-level care at a distance. Smart care at home, which can save hospital beds and therefore reduce the cost of care. This seems to me to be an excellent example of smart care, from the development of care from 1.0 to 2.0. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands has one of the best healthcare systems in the world. In Europe we are number 2, behind Switzerland, in the Euro Health Consumer Index. Since 2005 we are the only country consistently in the top three of this ranking. High-quality care means, of course, that we spend a lot of money on care. From 1 January 2020 we will be spending more money again. The total budget increases by 2.5 billion to 82.2 billion euros. That's an increase of 3.1%. In 2020, we spend on average €5.528 on care per adult. There are a number of challenges for the future. If you need care, you need care. There should not be any discussion about that. But this self-evidentity is under pressure. A number of autonomous developments pose major challenges, which we should not underestimate. For example, the age structure of the Dutch population is changing rapidly. In 2040 there are twice as many 75-plussers, three times as many 90-plussers and four times as many 100-plussers. There is also a huge shortage of staff in the care sector. There are insufficient doctors and nurses to meet the needs of care, both in urban areas and in the region. As a result, care is under pressure and even closes departments of hospitals. Given the increasing demand for care, it is impossible to solve this labour market problem only with additional staff. Now one in seven people works in care, but if we don't do something, it'll be one in four people in 2040. Even a child understands that this is not realistic in terms of the labour market. The use of technology and innovation in care does not stand still. We are on the eve of a whole new generation of treatment methods, which can revolutionize healing treatments. There is an increase in medicines for a small patient population with severe rare diseases: the so-called orphan medicines. We are also growing towards tailor-made medicines, gene therapies and treatments and personalized medicine, which is sometimes made for a single patient. These developments are extraordinary, but they also pose new problems. Where generic medicines can pay back the cost of developing a medicine by using a very large group of people, the group of users of orphan medicines is many times smaller, let alone personalized medicine. We already know the examples of this, such as the prick of baby Pia in Belgium and the American Mila, who received special tailor-made medication for her rare metabolic disease. The cost of medicines will rise enormously if we continue with new treatments in terms of funding systems. There are also new players in the care coming. Druggist chain Etos wants to sell more than just toothpaste, painkillers and vitamins, and is committed to providing information on health and well-being. For this purpose, Etos recently made an acquisition, with which information sites such as healthplein.nl, doctordokter.nl and hospital.nl have become part of Etos.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u13	I would like to return to the point made by Mr Veldman about the pharmaceutical industry. He's talking about new developments that I'm just gonna translate into my words and ask for new rules. I would like to remind him that the existing standard medicines and the existing rules within which the pharmaceutical industry operates already present us with challenges. So not even the novelty causes challenges, but the current situation as well. The Minister finally recognizes this and calls on drug manufacturers to be open about price building. They haven't been so far. They don't give good reasons either, I hear the Minister say. I would therefore argue for the obligation for manufacturers to give full disclosure, so to speak, to do the Full Monty. To give mandatory access to price building. When I hear Mr Veldman, he might support that idea. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u14	I don't know if I want to support the Full Monty in this room...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u15	Spare us!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u16	Spare us, exactly. But I support the Minister's ambition to agree with pharmaceutical companies on transparency of cost-building. Then it is not just the medicines that make it to the market, but also the medicines that do not make it to the market. Of course, there is one of the elements why medicines are so expensive. There are also a lot of things that ultimately do not reach us, because somewhere, mostly in the clinical phase, it is concluded that there are too many risks or that there are too many side effects. So look at the full picture and transparency: yes, I can support that. That's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u17	If we look at the whole picture, it shows that within the industries, the pharmaceutical industry is the one that achieves the highest operating result. It is therefore a mistake that there would be financial constraints within that industry. They're doing profit maximization there. Two. This transparency is good, but it is simply not self-evident. Hence my question as to whether we should not set a mandatory framework. Would that be something to talk about with Mr Veldman? If he is not prepared to deal with these concerns, those concerns are of course a bit empty. I hope he is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u18	In my opinion, there are many roads that lead to Rome and there are more things to do than just offer transparency. I agree with Mrs Ploumen that we need to talk to the pharmaceuticals about making their cost-building transparent. That is also the Minister's commitment, but that is not what we are here for. If we look at generic medicines, they are on average cheaper in the Netherlands than in many other countries. So we are already at the bottom of the market. The care comes more with all these new things, with all those medications that may only be available for one patient. The example of the Mila girl from the United States: $3 million for a treatment. We need to talk to each other about how we deal with that. Then you can make that $3 million clear. Let it be maybe 2.5 million, but that's still a lot of money when we're talking about one patient. So you have to step in with each other to make sure that we pay for it differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u19	One of the most expensive elements in the development of new medications is the trial trial number 3 called that I believe is what patients in cohorts need to be examined to see if medicines are safe. You're talking about personalized medicine, but do you consider that if we look at the right drug through DNA research, we can skip that trial? That would be huge in cost. How does Mr Veldman feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u20	That's absolutely true. The good news about this kind of medicine is that this last phase, which is often the most expensive, can perhaps be reduced, shortened or perhaps even missed. The great thing is that we in the Netherlands are already taking steps in this direction. TNO in Leiden is developing machines, or has already done so in part, in order to go through this type of test phases in a different way. Then a product can be placed on the market more quickly, it gets to the patient faster and the whole phase, which is so expensive, of making that medicine can be reduced. I think we're in agreement. In the end, of course, resources must be safe. You need to build in sufficient guarantees and tests, but where we can, we definitely need to shorten that third phase.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u21	I'm glad to hear that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u22	Mr. Chairman. I had stayed with new players who come to the market, to give a sketch of what awaits us all. Anyone who goes to the United States will see that retailer Walmart has recently opened a completely new concept of a health centre in Dallas, Georgia. In addition to complete dental care, primary care and optical care, each Walmart health centre has a full laboratory, full imaging services, pharmacies, audiology and behavioural advice. For the non-connoisseurs: Walmart is originally a supermarket chain. So this is just a harbinger of the steps technology giants like Amazon, Apple and Google are going to take. Finally. The analysis also contains a number of challenges in the area of personal care that are very profound. I am referring here to the availability of donor bodies, for example. Specifically, there is still a large shortage of kidney donors. Renal teams at home, an initiative of four university hospitals, have worked hard in recent years to solve this shortage. They visit kidney patients and their family, friends and acquaintances to provide information on the treatment of kidney disease. A good example of care in the home environment, where the patient's environment is closely involved. The results may be there. They show that family and friends are more likely to consider donating a kidney when they are properly informed about the disease and about what treatments are possible. Mr. Chairman. Then the solutions for the future. There are plenty of challenges. The good news is that there are plenty of opportunities and opportunities to meet these challenges. One of the ways to keep care accessible, available, affordable and high quality in the future is smart care. By smart care, I mean not only technological innovation, but also better organisation of care. Mercy Virtual, which I started my contribution with, is a striking example of both technology and the organisation of care. Smart care can be used on any front in care. Literally and figuratively organising the right care in the right place: in academic hospitals only complex care, in general hospitals non-complex care and regular treatment, a transfer of part of the treatments to the one and a half and first-line care, and much more use than now of technological aids in the treatment plan, especially in the case of ongoing monitoring after a medical procedure. Better organizing this is a must. Central to this is the patient's interest: the best care in the best way for the patient and in the best place. We need to organise care in such a way that it matches every patient's needs and guarantees the quality of life, now and in twenty years' time. Mr. Chairman. Fortunately, that evolution towards smarter care has already started. There are many examples that show that. For example, there is more use of data science in healthcare. Now, for example, a radiologist evaluates the scans of an MRI, but this can also be done using an algorithm, when it is trained with a wide range of scans. In the future, algorithms can also be used to predict, for example, whether someone is going to have a heart attack. Smart watches now measure your heart rate every day and also issue warnings when it rises for inexplicable reasons. There are many start-ups in the development of health apps, where people can measure their health and express their healthcare needs in a simple way, and where they are directly referred to the right body. This will, among other things, reduce the pressure on the general practitioner. This is often the first person to ask people with a care question, while perhaps they should be helped elsewhere. At the end of this year, the Chamber is discussing my own initiative paper on linking prevention and technology. In advance of this, I propose, together with Mr Van den Berg, that funds be made available to monitor health apps. As a user, you want to know if you are dealing with a decent app. Mr. Chairman. For the patient the best care in the best place requires something from healthcare providers and health insurers. As I said, one in seven people currently work in healthcare. In terms of growth in care needs, this becomes one in four people in 2040 and that is not possible. Technology can absorb part of this crunch, but I would like to stress that it can never completely replace the human hand. Care is and remains human work. However, the synergy between people and technology can provide a solution to the large cut-off that is currently taking place. This requires caregivers to embrace new technology and adapt their treatment plans accordingly. It requires healthcare providers and insurers to focus more on quality and on outcome indicators rather than the current incentive of the number of treatments. In the main agreement on medical care, the parties have endorsed the ambition that in 2022 more than 50% of the burden of the disease the outcomes of care for the patient are understandable and can be used to promote the learning capacity of healthcare professionals. Providing this care information to patients and a care purchase that meets the needs of the patient, therefore value-driven care. Mr. Chairman. The mapping of these 50% outcome indicators is an important agreement, because does a treatment indeed guarantee a better quality of life? What if you have surgery and its side effects are worse than the ailment? Smart care is therefore also value-driven care. I therefore call for an adaptation of the treatment plans of healthcare professionals, so that they are best suited to the needs of the patient. Along with patients decide. What is the state of this ambition, I ask the Minister. Because I very much welcome the ambition of the agreement. This form of smart care also involves creating expert care in certain areas of care. Expertise leads to the best care and therefore the best care outcome for the patient. This is why the VVD wants to make additional resources available together with D66. I would also like the Minister to provide an inventory of proven cost-effective digital innovations and e-health applications. This inventory can help health insurers buy and monitor the scaling-up of initiatives. Mr. Chairman. As said, the best care in the best place also requires something from health insurers. If I, as an insured person at the end of this year, want to make a choice from the offer of insurers, then choosing quality is still difficult. I can't see who delivers what quality. In any case, it's hard for me to figure out what insurance company is paying. Is it not strange in this light that one in four insured person wants to change, but that in the end only one in fourteen year olds change insurance companies, and that this is probably also mainly the people who are happy to be okay? How, according to the Minister, can the best quality choice be made by the insured? Where can the insured person seek advice on the choice of a health insurance provider? Mr. Chairman. Smart care also takes place in the production, use and cost of medicines. Alternative forms of preparation, new price agreements with pharmaceuticals, in particular for the new generation of medicines, stockpiling or moving production to Europe, make it possible to curb the costs of medicines, cope with shortages in the future and be less dependent on production outside Europe. The Minister recently announced the need to build up stocks of two or three months. That's great, but it's a question of whether we're there with that. If we put the care and dependence of medicines along the geopolitical measuring bar, we also raise the question whether we are too dependent on China and India, where 80% of the production comes from. I would like to hear from the Minister whether care and, in particular, the production of medicines should not be regarded as vital. And if so, what does that ask? How can we ensure that raw materials and production capacity are available in Europe again? By tackling this at EU level, can we reduce as much as possible the cost-driven effect of relocation to Europe? Mr. Chairman. How can we also prevent the waste of medicines? The OLVG has recently set up PharmaSwap, a private marketplace where pharmacists can bring supply and demand for non-available medicines together. These medicines may be considered safe to use. They have been preserved in accordance with the legislation in force. However, they are often discarded if the expiry date is in sight. Can't we avoid throwing them away by exchanging them with pharmacies they do need? How does the Minister view this idea of PharmaSwap? Mr. Chairman. Then there's the personalized medicine. Everyone will understand that a huge growth in gene therapy and other expensive one-on-one medicines, which cost in the millions, confront us with an unsustainable price model. In this context, I would ask the Minister to identify trends regarding more personalised use of medicinal products and medical technology, and to list their impact on admission and reimbursement procedures and healthcare expenditure. I would also like him to pay attention to how this can be strengthened in practice, how new therapies can reach the patient, and which development and business models fit in, taking into account affordability. (NL) Mr President, I would like to conclude by talking about the availability of kidney donors, which I have just spoken about. Not always does someone just need medication to get better. Some of us are in pain waiting for a donor organ. The working methods of Nierteams to Huis show that care in the home environment is also about these kinds of major issues. Because smart care is expressed in good education by an extensive team in a group with familiar faces. Therefore, scaling-up of teams working in this way as far as the VVD is concerned is necessary, not only for all those who are waiting for a donor organ, but also to alleviate the suffering of that one patient and to organise the best care for the patient in the best place.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u23	Thank you. You're done, aren't you? Isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u24	Yeah, I'm almost done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u25	Thank you. There is a question from Mr Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u26	I would like to come back to the question of the affordability of medicines and the pharmaceutical industry. The SP, together with the Labour Party and GroenLinks, has long suggested the idea of developing a national research fund for medicines. My question is how the VVD looks at that. Let me explain. A lot of scientists do research on drugs. The Anthoni of Leeuwenhoek is a great example of this. Now they cannot be funded for certain studies in which medicines are tested for their efficacy. If they could, the drugs could be cheaper and put on the market faster. What's the VVD like about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u27	In general, I am not in favour of nationalising all kinds of parts of the healthcare chain. I am not generally in favour of a medical fund either, I don't know exactly what the SP calls it, where the government is suddenly going to act as a pharmaceutical.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u28	I will explain, because Mr Veldman has not fully understood what the intention is. We currently have all kinds of research funds through, for example, the KWF cancer fund and ZonMw. There are all kinds of jars, but the question is whether there's enough money to do that research. The answer is no, there should be more. But there is also a lack of phase III research, so some further research in the testing of medicines in the case of certain cancer treatments. This does not concern large groups, but is extremely important. That hole exists right now. There's no money for that. Would the VVD feel like taking a good look at that and making funds available for that? We are talking about a research fund and not about the production of medicines.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u29	As I said just now to Mrs Ploumen or to Mrs Van Esch, I think I am totally in favour of seeing how we can speed things up, particularly in the third phase of clinical research, which is rather expensive. Then products can also go to the market sooner, especially when it comes to small groups or one-on-one medicines. Because, of course, it doesn't make much sense to test on large groups if a drug is actually intended for one person. In my opinion, there should be a profit, even if I look at what TNO is doing to reduce costs, which means that a product reaches that patient. In my view, this is the primary path we must take to ensure that what is developed and what is in test phases is also prepared for use by the patient.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u30	Mr Veldman spoke extensively about the smart organisation of care. Actually, I agree with him. I think we can organize care even smarter, so it's more comfortable for the patient. This also requires something from health insurers, as Mr Veldman himself said, but in practice we see that some health insurers do support it and others do not take the initiative as cities and regions to work smarter together, for example between a hospital and general practitioners. Of course, that's not how we're gonna make that change. Does Mr Veldman agree with me that this also requires health insurers to support an initiative in the neighbourhood in the same way?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u31	If Mrs Ellemeet is trying to say that we can expect all health insurers to work for the best care, then I agree with her. If she means to say that every health insurance provider has to do exactly the same thing, then no. The beauty is that we have different health insurance companies and that you also see different incentives for steering on quality. I think we find each other in the desire to make it transparent as well as how it is organised. That's also the call I just made to the Minister. The main agreement should make it transparent that indicators should be established with each other on outcome. So you can also ask insurers to make them visible no matter how they make sure that we have the best quality of care.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u32	Mr. Veldman says that health insurance companies are entitled to know it all for themselves, but yes, then of course we will not get the change we want. If we want that change, if we want more cooperation between general practitioners and hospitals, it will require the same commitment from all health insurers in such a region or in such a neighborhood. Otherwise, we're not gonna make that change. And that's exactly the problem, because we see that we can't make that change because health insurance companies don't listen to each other enough. We have agreed at the summit that one insurer will follow the other. That is what we call with a chic word "congruent behavior," but we do not yet see it in practice. So it would be worth a sweet thing to me if the VVD also spoke more clearly towards the health insurance companies: boys, if we really want to get that change done, then you need to work together better.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u33	I think we can pronounce that with each other. The nuance that I just heard from Mrs Ellemeet in the middle sentence in which she spoke of 'in the region' is relevant. Because yes, of course you have to work together in the region. Her first interruption was about the fact that the same thing has to happen everywhere and that when health insurers do things somewhere, the rest must do the same everywhere. That is too short for me, but if there are good cooperation arrangements, if it works and if it is about the best care and the best way of working that can be delivered at the time, then you can indeed ask other insurers who might not participate or who throw the ass against the crib, so why are you not in on it? And "why else do you organize it?" Then they may come from the best care that will be created, but it could also be that there is an insurer in between who says: yes, but I do this even better and I find it very strange that those other insurers in my region are stuck in 1.0 solutions and not moving towards a 2.0 solution. Mr. Chairman. Then I want to finish. The point is, we're heading for 2.0. Our healthcare system is able to evolve into that phase. Old things we know from the past just show that. About ten years ago, some institutions started for people with dementia in particular with a fake bus stop. Demented patients obviously want freedom of movement and the staff are very easily concerned about those who went wandering. The 1.0 solution was a fake bus stop with the only destination: home. In this way, patients were always brought back to the care facility from the bus stop. In all its simplicity, ingenuity and intelligence, I find this a striking example of how to tackle a problem in care with smart care 1.0. There are now 2.0 solutions. With the help of beacons and GPS, residents can be closely monitored. The obtained freedom of movement then greatly contributes to the quality of the patient's life. And that's what it's all about in the end: quality of life. This applies both in medical care and in long-term care, for which my colleague Mr Laan will now take over.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u34	Oh, what a lovely little bridge! Who am I to give the floor to Mrs Laan-Selschap, also from the VVD? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u35	Mr President, thank you. I was out with my kids and my mother-in-law for a few days last week. My mother-in-law is 78 years old, very vivid and actively involved in our family. My sons carry her in their hands, and even though she's my mother-in-law, so do I. During those days we had the peace to have nice conversations about life, about being young, about getting older. For my kids, that's a far-from-my-bed show, a little less for me, but my mother-in-law's in the middle of it. Although she doesn't need care yet, of course we think about the years ahead, how she wants to spend it, what she's going to do when she needs care, how she's going to organize it, where she wants to live. That's how the wallet I've been working on every day came to life over the past week, because although you do a lot of work visits, have a lot of conversations and these things are regularly presented to you, it gets a lot closer when it comes to someone you love. Mr. Chairman. Fortunately, we live in a country where care for the elderly and long-term sick is well regulated. Yes, it can always be better, but we can rely on tens of thousands of people who care lovingly every day. And we live in a country of solidarity where we all bear the cost of that care. When we see how the composition of our population develops, more and more people will need care in the coming decades. Not just that; we're getting older too. That's fine, but that also means that we're still using care and that's gonna be a different kind of care.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u36	At the moment, almost 18,000 very heavy patients are on the waiting list for a nursing home. These are people who need 24-hour supervision, care and nursing. I don't think there's gonna be a place for your mother-in-law. Then how do you come to the conclusion that care is well arranged?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u37	Thank you for this question. I will come back specifically to these numbers and to this problem. So Mrs. Agema will hear it from me later. I stand by the fact that the Netherlands is a great country where a lot of things are very well organized, but I agree with Mrs Agema that there are also things that can be done better, especially for this vulnerable group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u38	Yes, there can be much better, because since the Quality Framework, that extra money for the nursing homes, the VVD speaks of "loveful care," but it also stands with the old dirt. So it's not just those waiting lists for the nursing homes that break up. There's not enough staff. Loving care is thrown overboard. Then how does Mrs Laan-Geselschap come to the conclusion that it is well organised?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u39	Thank you for this question, too. In the eyes of Mrs Agema, loving care is thrown overboard. That is something we are not taking for granted. Loving care is the starting point for us, along with the phenomenon of quality of life. That is what we are striving for. If we get the idea that this is not going well in the future of my story, you will also hear about it, as I said earlier, we are asking questions about it to the cabinet, which is doing so well for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u40	We're doing the interruptions in half, Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u41	Does it include the budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u42	Also in the budget, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u43	I had to get to my bouncer!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u44	Well, I'm sure we'll see you again. The increase in the number of older people can also be no surprise, just like the bouncer. This is what demographic figures have been showing for a long time. This means that we need to be careful with the budget we spend on care. That is what we are talking about today: what should we spend the care money on in the years to come and how do we ensure that caregivers can still receive care in the years to come? For we are united in this country, but at the same time we cannot spend half of our income on care. So we need to look at how it can be smarter, because we do not want this loving care only for the elderly and the sick of today, which we want in the long term too, and we want to keep it affordable. Mr. Chairman. So if more people need care, we also need more people who can provide that care. That is a problem, because the number of people working in the care sector remains the same for the time being. This creates a high workload on all fronts in the healthcare sector. Much of the direct care is done today by carers, for which very much appreciation and respect, but with the ageing of our population, the number of potential carers is also decreasing. Does the Minister have plans for the future to prevent us from falling short? How does he intend to spare the carers? This includes, for example, the parents of disabled children. So we need to think about organising our concerns differently, because it is simply not realistic that we should continue to organise things in this way. There remains a need for smart solutions, for example for tasks that do not necessarily have to be performed by a human being, to deploy robots. Not because we do not think human contact is important, but precisely because we believe that time should be left for that. That is why innovation is important, as is the smarter organisation of care. This is how we must preserve the quality of life that we consider so important in our country.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u45	Robots? Am I hearing that right? Are robots the solution for the future for the VVD? What are these robots gonna do?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u46	We have seen good examples of this lately. As I have just said, we are using robots so that we can use the human care that Mrs Agema, I think, needs so much in the right place. It is precisely those people that we are doing it for in this country and that we are talking about now so that we can continue to organise it for years to come. My colleague, Mr Veldman, has just given a number of examples of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u47	Seriously! One minute Mrs. Laan-Selschap talks about loving care and the next she talks about robots. How much love comes from a robot?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u48	That is what I see very visually; that is how I am set, but I will not share it with you. I've indicated that if you use those robots in the right way, you'll just have time to give loving care when people need it. So we want to think about what the world will look like in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u49	We've come up with a subject that speaks to the imagination. Mrs. Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u50	I thought I'd go on with this, but on a slightly different aspect. I agree with Mrs Laan that it is important that we look at how we can use home automation and e-health alongside human care. It is precisely this combination that ensures that we can continue to provide the best care in the future. The point is that we now see a thousand flowers blooming when it comes to e-health and home automation. There are pilots and beautiful initiatives, but unfortunately we also often see them die in beauty. Does Mrs Laan agree with me that if we really want to do this, it also requires more direction from the government? Let me put it more specifically. Wouldn't it be a good idea if at some point this minister just made a choice and said: these examples of home automation are proven to be effective, let's do it together?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u51	I have the feeling that Mrs Ellemeet has a forward-looking view, because I will be returning to experimental space shortly in my text. I would like to draw your attention to this element. I do believe that we in this country should organise better together that the good things that are being discovered do not end up in the wastebasket but also get hands and feet. Not just in the small organization that comes with it, but spread out over the rest of the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u52	I interpret this in such a way that Mrs Laan agrees with GroenLinks that we should choose, that it is also a role for the government to make those choices and to ensure that we really get the scaling-up that we want. It should be interesting not only for the care institution and the staff, but also for the industry that makes this technology to invest more in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u53	I agree with Mrs Ellemeet's concluding remarks on innovation. I have one more question about the piece before that. My colleague from the VVD asked: what is the Minister's vision, looking at the major challenges that exist? Mrs Laan referred to the decline in the number of carers, demographics, the elderly. Does she also say that she is actually missing a view from the Minister on these major challenges at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u54	I will return to that in a moment too in my speech. I am absolutely convinced that this Minister has a view on this. But in order for him to express specifically how concrete he dares to give hands and feet to it, and not only with a programme, but perhaps also in a different way, I am going to ask him more about it in a moment. That will be reflected in my text in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u55	The question "Does the Minister have a vision?" So I have to explain in this way: the Minister has a vision, but he has to put it into practice. You're about to question him about that. Then we will wait for that, but still for a moment about the nursing homes, partly because of Mrs Agema's interruption. We have had a debate for this about longer at home. I think we've expressed Parliamentary concern about the waiting lists. Letters have been sent now. In the end, we see the urgency to deal with this. But I also read in a letter to Mrs Agema O'Brien that we do not really have any idea of the capacity yet and that it will not be visible until the end of the year. Then I'm really starting to worry. A vision is good, but given the short-term problems, I think that today the Minister should clarify how he is going to solve those waiting lists for the nursing homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u56	I think this is more of a question to the Minister, but I share it with you. You cannot live in a vision; I think it is so literal in my text. That is an old text that resembles that of a former Social Democrat from this house. I'll get back to you in a minute. If you ask that question the same way, I think we will support it in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u57	The VVD wants more robots. She wants more robots, because there wouldn't be enough people working in health care. I would like to remind the VVD that in recent years, under the responsibility of the VVD, almost 80,000 people have been discharged into care. I would also like to remind Mrs Laan that the nurses announced that they would stop in November. They are on strike because they are underpaid, underpaid, because the workload is far too high and there is too much bureaucracy. Wouldn't it make much more sense to do that before the VVD starts talking about robots?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u58	Thanks for the suggestion. I also think that's very clear. Apparently it doesn't stick, but again, I didn't say it's either or, but that I think it should be and-and. There are opportunities and we must keep our eyes open for every opportunity there is. Because even with the suggestion made by the SP, people may pay more wages..... we do not solve the shortage of staff. And that's what it's all about right now; there are too few people who can do the job. Even if you pay them more, you don't magic those people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u59	The shortage is because the VVD does not take good care of our care staff, our caregivers. The shortage is because you have fired people in recent years and because people are still being fired from care. Caregivers have to strike for a decent salary. The government is running campaigns to lure people to care, but in the meantime, the back door is wide open and people are leaving care massively. That is the reality, Mrs Laan. That is the reality. People are leaving care right now. Then you should not propose to come up with robots; then you should start rewarding these people properly. Then you need to improve working conditions and tackle bureaucracy so that the work becomes attractive again. Then you're talking about making the care better. And you're talking about getting more people to care. No robots.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u60	This was not a question, but apart from that, I think the core of making care attractive is that people go into care because they want to take care of people. We need to create these opportunities with each other. Wherever that spoke runs, we must make sure that we give the people who so passionately choose to take care of other people the space to be able to do so. If technology has added value that enables us to offer better quality care, then I think that is where the challenge lies. Then we have to focus on that and not on all the other negative things that are an obstacle in that sense, although we may have to look each other in the eye on some points and act on them differently. I'm gonna get back to my story. Mr. Chairman. What frustrates me is that experiments in the field of innovation and with ways to improve care often bleed to death. That then depends on the deadline given by the Ministry. The official support stops, the approval does not come or innovative solutions simply disappear in a drawer. We need to reverse that tide, especially since smart solutions are so badly needed. Now there are happy people who work outside the box, like the two fathers I met this week and whose daughters have a metabolic disease. They continue an experiment even though they know that according to the rules it is not really possible. They fight together with other parents for better disability care by introducing the concept of Beautiful life. Those are the people we need. Those are the people who need to be given all the space to improve it for their disabled children and ultimately to organise a better life for everyone so that we can roll this stuff out with each other. I know that it is difficult in the government world to let go of frameworks and to color outside the lines, but I would still argue for a broader experimental status, a status for an experiment that gives time, space and flexibility and allows for projects that contribute to improving care, even if it takes more time than thought or hoped. It sounds so simple, but in practice that often does not seem to be the case, which makes initiators stop. Eternal sin. How does Minister De Jonge view a broader experimental status? I also said that not only are there going to be more elderly people, but that they are also going to live longer. Average life expectancy is now 81 years. That vieve and active mother-in-law of mine would have been behind the geraniums half a century ago. I love that she gets so old and that we get to be so old, but then it is nice if you stay mobile, are healthy, have company around you and live in a nice place where you feel at home and where you can possibly get the care you need. Minister De Jonge was in Buitenhof on Sunday. I do not doubt the good intentions and commitment of this minister, but at the same time I do not think that the viewers at home had a warm feeling of a contour note, more direction to the regions or a system change, apart from the times that this has led to a solution. Can the Minister state again in ordinary human language what he is doing, how can we reassure the people who are following this debate that this is going to contribute to the loving care they may need in the long term? However much there are parties in this house that believe differently, it is true that most people who see old or sick prefer to stay in their own home. As many as 97% of the elderly say they want to control their lives themselves. Of course with the care or support that is needed, but rather in your own environment next to the neighbor you've known for years and with the cat on your lap that you're so attached to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u61	I just want to get back to that system change. The VVD has indicated in recent years and also in this period and in my opinion even in the coalition agreement that they do not want to discuss the system change. I actually heard the Minister say last Sunday in Buitenhof that he wants to make a start on changing the system. How does the VVD view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u62	If you listen carefully to my story, then I think you can deduce that the fact of a system change does not interest me very much. It's about how it works out in practice and in people's homes. That's the point. Any change, whether by law, by a couple change or by whatever means, we will check it out. That is what we are talking about: quality of life in people's homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u63	I don't think one can do it without the other. A change in the system is obviously important for how it is going to work out in practice. In recent years, we have seen a number of perverse elements of the system that ensure that care does not improve and that care becomes more expensive. I would like to know from the VVD whether it is prepared to map out these perverse elements of the system and really do something about it and therefore not to take a wait-and-see attitude.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u64	I think Mr. Kuzu is saying two things at once. On the one hand, he says that a system change is necessary. Well, we're gonna judge that on his merits. The proposals that are coming will be tested how it works out in the people's home and whether people at home actually get better care or at the hospital or the nursing home. That's what we're gonna look at. The perverse things you are talking about are, of course, also being discussed at that time, and we will simply look at them. For us, it is not the change in the system that is at the forefront, but the fact that it contributes to long-term affordable care, in which not only we now but also the people in the future can count on a government that pays for the care they need. Mr. Chairman. I also understand that when it comes to real couples who are sometimes 50 to 60 years together and who need one care, it prevents them from being separated because the way they develop is different. We too have heard the poignant stories about this. It's terrible to hear these stories. That's what makes us all quiet. Part of the problem can be solved by adaptations to the homes, and by providing more space to other forms of housing, such as kangaroo homes in which children and parents live together, or living groups. The sooner we think about it, including the elderly themselves, the better. Older people do that, too. Think of people who choose to live in a courtyard, so that there is more social control. Or think of elderly people who buy a lot together where they will live independently, but where they can support each other and for example eat together and maintain the garden. They look at each other, ensure that people do not unite and therefore remain more active themselves. For example, look at the village of Austerlitz. Here, fit older people keep an eye on the caregivers. They either run errands for each other or take the vacuum cleaner through the neighbor's house. Older people can therefore continue to live in their own homes. They can continue to participate in society. And they get the care they need. That is the picture of care in the future as I see it. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet is working on removing the housing market. Now we too, as spokesmen of care, must take the time to think about future forms of housing for the elderly. I would therefore ask the Minister to work very intensively with his colleague, the Minister for the Interior. What possibilities does the Minister now see for concrete action to be taken on this issue? The same goes for the group of younger older people, the yeps, the young older people, you all like abbreviations very much, so I'm just throwing another one in the middle of the 55-plussers. They are not always aware of their future. They are busy with work, children and caring for their parents, so they don't have time to prepare themselves for the next phase of their lives. That's a phase where they probably need care of themselves. Never mind that they're already thinking about living smaller in that big rental house or big store they bought or rented, along with their kids. Does the Minister think about activating this young older people? What are the plans for this group? Some people can no longer live at home and have to go to a nursing home. At the moment, however, there are 14,000 gaps, and that is getting worse. There will be more and more in the coming years. The Minister writes to us that we can expect an opinion from a committee in December. I just told you, you can't live in advice. So I'd rather hear from the Minister what he's doing in concrete terms. Is he creating extra places? How many places is that? Does the government specifically discuss this with corporations and their role in this? Mr. Chairman. In 2020, EUR 1.8 billion will be available for the so-called quality budget care. That's a lot of money. This should be used to improve the quality of care. The agreement was that the vast majority, 85%, would go to staff: hands on the bed. At the same time, an agreement was reached in May with Zorgverzekerings Nederland and ActiZ, in which that directive was abandoned. How will the 1.8 billion next year be spent? Exactly what appointments were made? Who controls that? Can it also be used for new or remodeling, for example? Because I believe that the number of places available in a nursing home also contributes to collective quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u65	With the risk that she will say that it will come in the future of the contribution, I now miss an analysis of the context of the care in the contributions of both spokesmen of the VVD. I have now heard a great deal about cure and care, as it is called in jargon, namely curative care and long-term care. But how does the VVD actually look at the context of care, at our population, at public health in this case, and in particular at the large differences between socio-economic groups, for example when it comes to life expectancy? But maybe it will!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u66	Well, unfortunately, I have to disappoint Mr Renkema, because that is not part of my story. But I can give you that, and you have heard that between the rules, I think the VVD wants to offer the right care in the right place. We'll see how we can keep it affordable in the future. We must guard the solidarity between the various groups. We need to make sure that people continue to stand up for each other through finance. And that there are great differences between different groups in our society in this country.I myself come from Rotterdam; you may know that we realize this very well, but that should never be an obstacle to the care that someone gets.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u67	I am not so much concerned with the care that someone gets, but, above all, with the context of health. Think of prevention policy. I didn't hear anything about that. Think of the most vulnerable groups in our society, such as the homeless and the disabled. I didn't actually hear anything about that in the contributions of the VVD. Is it now a conscious choice to talk today only about the portfolios of these two ministers and the billions involved, or is that not a conscious choice?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u68	That's partly a conscious choice. Prevention policy has been frequently discussed in this Chamber in recent months and will continue to be discussed in the coming months. My colleague spokesperson, Mrs Hermans, and we have a new colleague who will be talking about this in the coming period. She has spoken about this before. On the other issues you have mentioned, such as disability policy, I have spoken indirectly a number of times. So it has clearly been discussed. Only, we all make choices and we have a certain speaking time, in which we do make our own choices. I assume we're going to hear a lot from you about how you look at it. Perhaps we will interrupt you on that, so that we can also see how we feel about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u69	We are going to listen to an interruption by Mr Kerstens.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u70	When I heard Mr Veldman about tomorrow's concern, I thought: I am not interrupting for a moment, because his colleague, Mrs Laan-Geselschap, will probably talk mainly about today's concern and the problems that concern today. I am thinking of employees who are under pressure from work, clients and patients who do not need care, institutions and healthcare providers who threaten to fall and municipalities who cannot make ends meet. What I have heard Mrs Laan-Geselschap say about this has so far been rather disappointing. What do you say to those care workers who go head-down? What do you say to clients and patients who can't get care right now? What do you say to institutions that threaten to fall? What do you say to communities that can't buy ends together? What is the VVD doing to address today's concerns?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u71	This colleague also raises a number of questions, which are not entirely congruent either. You highlight the problem with the municipalities: the payment of the care and the finances of the municipalities. This has been discussed extensively in the General Financial Reviews. My colleague, Mr De Vries, has given a number of very comprehensive considerations, such as the step-on-step principle. We will not repeat ourselves, because that is not the issue today. That is why this is not reflected in my text. All other financial consequences are included in the story of Mr Veldman and mine. We always say that we need to prepare care in a good way for the future. Extra money is not always the solution, because at the moment there are simply too few people to be able to provide that care. We're gonna run into that. My colleague Regterschot will discuss this with you in detail in the coming months.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u72	First, on the congruence of my question. I'm just saying that there's a lot of trouble today and it's beeping and cracking on all sides, whether you're talking about municipalities, employees, clients and patients or institutions. Even that is a congruence in my story: it beeps and creaks and seeps from all angles and holes that there are problems. I do not hear urgency in the contribution of the VVD. Of course, we're gonna talk about it in the next few months. I also like to talk about tomorrow's care and the day after tomorrow. There is at least one minister who has already said a few very interesting things about this: less market forces, more cooperation, for example. But I'd love to hear urgency in your story. Urgency towards people who are now on a waiting list, who need to move away from home for care, who do not get care. Urgency towards employees who I say only once again go under because they have too few colleagues. They haven't been helped talking about it a few more times in the next few months.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u73	I do not think this was really a question, but I would like to mention that I have just talked about the 14,000 waiting people and the growing shortage of places in nursing homes. I have literally said that you cannot live in an opinion and asked the Minister how he actually works on this. I think that is an urgent matter. I choose words other than those of my colleague. I think we've all been given that way in this house. Everyone chooses their own atmosphere and way. I do it in my own way and I think that as a VVD we have clearly indicated that care for the individual is at the top and that we want to guard it. Through our input we also want to shape this in the coming years. Mr. Chairman. Then I get to the 1.8 billion. I just asked the Minister about that. We have also read that 840 million is not spent. Our question is how it stands. The money for care for the elderly isn't really on the shelf, is it? Is it made available elsewhere in the care of the elderly? I'd like a response from the cabinet. Just as important: how can we measure whether the quality in care really improves with this extra money? It is right that the Court of Auditors should ask for this, because we need to be able to check whether the large amounts that are rightly going to this sector are going to end up where they are most needed. Mr. Chairman. Sometimes that's not optimal either. This is the case when a partner becomes seriously ill or one of the partners becomes seriously demented. Then it is very doubtful whether it is in the interests of the partner to move with him to a closed department. But if people want to stay together, they have to be able to. This means that traditional nursing homes should be used more flexibly. This can be done according to the law, but in practice this often turns out to be a difficult route to follow. How can we make that route to a flexible nursing home bump free, I ask the Minister. And what would it be like, for example, when people start living in a place where they are prepared for the future from the age of 65? I see a place in front of me where inpatient and extramural care basically meet on location for multiple people. Call it antecipatory homes or a care growth apartment. I don't care about the name. I'd like to ask the Minister if he can follow what I mean. How can we draw this wider, so that it is realized in more places? There is 30 million available to develop innovative housing concepts. Can this also be used for this purpose? Can the Minister also clarify the 30 million spent last year?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u74	"Anticipean residences," I hear it again! Soon it'll be something between home and nursing home. It was those nursing homes, it was the shelters at the nursing homes. And that had to be broken. The VVD broke that. There's no room in the law for nursing homes anymore. They are simply not funded anymore. My question to Mrs Laan-Geselschap van de VVD is: do you not have, with the glasses of today, a great deal of regret about closing down those nursing homes?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u75	Thank you for this question from Mrs Agema. She keeps looking back at what happened in the past. What we, as VVD, would like so much, and also together with the PVV, is to see how in the future we can just offer these people good care. In a different way than in the past, with the moving insight and bearing in mind the fact that nowadays people want to stay home longer. I have just indicated that there have been investigations into this. So I would be so pleased if Mrs Agema would let go of that mantra, which I believe has already passed a number of times not only in this debate but also before, and see how she, together with the VVD, and perhaps together with the coalition and other parties, can provide care for people and make it better for people, so that it is not just bad, but it is just good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u76	It was beautiful as we had organized it in the Netherlands: that those people of 65 could live in a leaning home and then helped a bit in the nursing home, in the building next door. But it just had to be broken. Because it's not my mantra, it was the mantra of the VVD that people didn't want to live in those nursing homes anymore. They just wanted to stay home longer; they all wanted to. There were 80,000 places five years ago. Today there are less than 5,000. 80,000 places have demolished the VVD; places we are so looking for now; places Mrs Laan-Selschap is now asking for. That's pure madness! Such a capital destruction! And she's laughing too, Mr. President! The VVD is directly responsible for the fact that all those anticipatory homes that Mrs Laan-Geselschap wants now are no longer there. Aren't you ashamed of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u77	That was the question? No. Mrs. Agema keeps suggesting that things had to be destroyed. Well, I don't think there's any policy piece that includes that as an objective. The choices we made at the time have ensured that the country has become where we stand with each other. This is a country in which a great deal of valuable care is given to people, where people should continue to be able to rely on good care in the future. And again, the outstretched hand to Mrs Agema: go and see with us how we can achieve in the future what you are advocating so that we can make things better for the people at home together. Mr. Chairman. A completely different point. The quality of life is also increased by being able to understand what is required of you. Secretary of State Knops came up with a nice initiative last week, namely making public documents more readable; an action taken by the municipality of Rotterdam, like some other municipalities, a few years ago. We're talking about care today, something that affects people the moment they're vulnerable. As a client, you are flooded with letters, documents and attachments, information that you need to understand in order to get the right care. Is the Minister prepared to ask the health insurers and health care offices to draw up their letters and materials in understandable language and to talk to the target group for this purpose? Then there's another difficult point that needs to be discussed. Euthanasia is a sensitive subject, in which complex dilemmas come together, especially when it comes to ending lives in elderly people with dementia. If this wish is not discussed in good time, which unfortunately happens too often, it is often impossible. Then an older person ends up in exactly the situation he or she would have liked to avoid. So we need to discuss this carefully and in good time between the general practitioner and the patient. Last summer, my colleague, Mr Tellegen, argued in favour of making wishes about the end of life more discussable and creating more clarity and openness between doctor and patient. She's in the room. Of course euthanasia is not a right that you can enforce with the GP, but therefore it is all the more important to know how your GP is about this. That is why the question to the Minister is: how is he going to encourage more timely discussions between the general practitioner and the patient? In addition to more timely discussions on euthanasia, it is important to increase knowledge of the euthanasia law among doctors. At the moment, the Expertise Centre Euthanasia is the institute to increase knowledge and expertise about the euthanasia law in general practitioners. That is why I ask the Minister how he will ensure that the knowledge and skills of the Euthanasia Expertise Centre are available to every general practitioner in the Netherlands. Mr President, I will conclude. Getting older doesn't just happen to someone. In fact, at some point, hopefully it will happen to all of us. You don't know when you're not gonna be self-reliant or sick anymore. The conversation about this must take place, as a family, as an elderly person, but also between doctor and patient. Those are other conversations than having conversations with a younger person, or someone who's still in the middle of life. Finally, on behalf of my colleague, Mr Ellemeet, I would like to see how we can support doctors in this process, in order to decide, together with the elderly, how they can be as happy as possible at that last stage. Quality of life must be at the heart of this, with our neighbors, as I have been able to do with my mother-in-law. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u78	Thank you. One more question from Mrs Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u79	I have another question on the issue of euthanasia. I think it is indeed very important that the knowledge about the euthanasia law, whatever you think of that law, be improved. Ms. Laan-Geselschap referred to the expertise center, formerly the Life End Clinic. But isn't this something that should also be taken up by the professions themselves?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u80	I don't think a centre of expertise is called a centre of expertise for nothing. You can only learn from that. Everything that comes from there is very important for people to take. Next, I share that entirely with Mrs Dik-Faber............................................................................................................................................................................ We need to cherish that with each other. Because it has to be clear how a general practitioner and a patient are in this conversation, it is important to be able to take that knowledge to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u81	My group also considers it very important to have a timely debate on the end of life. In fact, my group considers it very important that the doctor is well aware of the scope of the euthanasia law and of the due diligence criteria contained in it. Again my question: is this task, the development of knowledge in this field, not much more for the professions themselves than for an organisation established as a Life End clinic, which had a different objective? I do not deny that experience has been built over the years, but primarily the responsibility for the conversation between doctor and patient lies with them. So then also between doctor and patient that knowledge should be available and built up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u82	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u83	That's what I want to tell Mrs. Laan-Selship. I hope she agrees with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u84	I agree with you on the latter point, in the sense that if the two could reach the best decisions without enriching themselves with knowledge. Surely it cannot be Mrs Dik-Faber's intention to leave knowledge present outside their conversation? Science and knowledge is something that makes us all richer and better underpins our decisions. Knowledge is power, that's a well-known fact. So I always assume that the more knowledge you have, the more informed you can make a decision. As far as I am concerned, a profession which is enriched by the fact that there is more knowledge is worth a compliment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u85	There is now some confusion. The expertice centre is of course for the target group and also consists of the target group. It is doctors and consultants who accompany doctors in complex euthanasia requests. We fully endorse the questions that have been put to the Minister. Because it is a centre of expertise and because they have a lot of casuistics, they are ideally suited to provide that piece of training and that piece of guidance. So my question to the VVD is actually the question that has already been asked to the Minister, but with a little bit of extension. Does the VVD agree that, precisely because there is such expertise, they can play such a valuable role when it comes to continuing training and the supervision of doctors, who have to make the decision, looking at the rules, between what can and what cannot be done?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u86	I think Mrs Bergkamp indicates what I said, but in other words. I fully share her analysis and I believe that these questions, which have been forwarded to the Minister, can lead to an even better answer. We hope that the Minister will make a wise choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u87	Fine, thank you. Then we're going to listen to the GroenLinks group. The first speaker is Mrs Ellemeet. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u88	Thank you, Mr President. Last weekend I made the mistake of mentioning on social media that the minister of VWS has been a minister for two and a half years now. Fortunately, I was very quickly reminded that I am now making some progress. As Members of Parliament, we have been working for two and a half years, but this cabinet has been working for two years now: exactly in half. So it's the perfect time to take stock in the meantime. That is what I want to do today. We have a lot of debates on a wide range of subjects. At least once a year it is good to rise above that and bring the many issues to the core. If we are not careful, we sometimes risk not seeing the forest through the trees in the many health debates we have. So what are the major challenges for these VWS executives? What are they really supposed to achieve in the next two years as far as GroenLinks is concerned? Let me start with one of the biggest and most urgent issues: care for the elderly. Just started as a Member of Parliament, I wrote my initiative paper "Laughing 80" two years ago. I did this because I was concerned about demographic developments alone and the fact that older people are dealing with three different laws of care. Are we able to give good care to all the elderly in the coming years and decades? Unfortunately, the answer to this question has become increasingly clear over the last two years. The answer is: we are facing a great challenge and we are not yet sufficiently ready. Already we see that vulnerable elderly people are stuck in our complex care system. So the question is, what else are we supposed to do? It starts with: what should we do in the short term? Previous speakers have already mentioned this. A lot of elderly people can't wait for a good vision. So I ask the Minister: what is he going to do for the elderly in the short term, for example, when it comes to waiting lists, places in nursing homes and elderly people living at home, but not being given proper care? To answer that question, it can also help to see how other countries organise care for the elderly. Last week I visited Denmark and Sweden with a number of colleagues. Without saying that you can copy good examples from abroad to our country, there are certainly some positive things to report. For example, care for the elderly is almost entirely based in one law and under one executive board. In their case, the municipality. Many different healthcare providers therefore work together more easily. For example, there are standard multidisciplinary teams for the elderly at home and there is also a greater role for the physiotherapist, a professional group that is often put aside here. And there is more emphasis on actually enabling elderly people to live independently at home, with intensive guidance after a crisis. That's what they call "Rablement" over there. Also, living and care are completely separate and are mandatory, and subsidised by the Empire, built for the elderly. I also found their approach to palliative care very inspiring. That's a concept that starts with them the moment you get the diagnosis that you have a disease that you can't cure. From that moment on, you should get all the support and guidance that fits that disease image, which is different from a healing approach. It's much more about quality of life. Mr. Chairman. The directors are working on a contour note, he has already been mentioned this morning in which they come up with proposals for future-proof care. It would be good if the ministers could include important lessons from the Scandinavian countries. I'd like a response from the rulers. I would also ask the directors to share with this Chamber a first sketch of this note before the summer, preferably in spring. I think this is such an important subject that we in the Chamber should also be able to think about the future of care. Mr. Chairman. There is at least one group that cannot afford the luxury of waiting for a new and more appropriate system: the vulnerable elderly. A group that is well defined and that uses much more care than about 80% of the rest of the elderly, because we often forget that. I urge the Minister to cooperate with the care field in the shorter term and to co-finance care for vulnerable elderly people, not to mention their caregivers. They really need more than a pilot here and there. I would also like to emphasise the importance of good information for vulnerable elderly people on the outcomes of treatments. It can differ significantly from the average results in this particular group. They can only well decide with the doctor what is the best treatment for them, if they are well informed and for that I will come up with a proposal, together with the VVD. On the subject of living and caring for the elderly, my colleague Paul Smeulders and I will only help the Minister, because these developments really go too slowly within this cabinet. We are coming up with an initiative paper on this subject next year, because more direction from the government and from the municipalities is urgently needed. That turned out to be also at the round table on living and caring, which my group organised together with the CDA last month. Mr. Chairman. In addition to care for the elderly, I would like to consider an indispensable but still too modest group of caregivers, the nurses. Too often they are only dealt with side by side in debates, and that is wrong. Without them, we are unable to give good care to people. In size this group is three times as large as the group of medical specialists. Three times as big, and yet they're still undervalued. The image that many people have of nurses is also often outdated. They often can and want to combine their patient care with or education, or research. You often see this combination with doctors and this is also supported by organisations, from hospitals, for example. But for nurses, and certainly also for nurses specialists, this combination of tasks is hardly available. It's really time for us to consider this profession as a full-bodied one. Give them the jobs and the salary they deserve. Organise leadership and therefore role models in all levels of the organisations, including at the level of the board of directors. Not only in nursing homes where this is already in the quality framework, but also in hospitals. They deserve it and we can't live without them. It would be highly desirable if we were to monitor the representation of nurses on board boards. They must become as self-evident as it is for medical specialists. I would like a response from both ministers. How are they going to work for this profession and how are they going to give nurses a better position from the point of view of more control? Mr. Chairman. Why is it so hard to shift the accent from being sick to being sick to being in health? That is an important question and a challenge for these leaders. If you go by the policy language, you might think that we have already taken that step, because we talk very often about positive health and prevention. But unfortunately, in practice it is still quite difficult to make that change. Of course, we have a Secretary of State dealing with prevention, but as far as GroenLinks is concerned, prevention is also given a more central role in long-term care and curative care. For example, it does not help that nursing homes are only paid for the filling of beds. Why shouldn't they be paid, so to speak, for keeping beds empty? Why should their doors and their activities not also be opened to elderly people living at home? Hospitals and community care are also paid for traditional production: medical treatment. Isn't it strange that a health insurance company can't pay €200 for a fall prevention course, but €1,500 for an operation due to a fall? That's just a weird way of thinking. Let me just say it again: to make this change, it helps as doctors to be employed. Mr. Chairman. With smart home automation, we can intervene early in a deterioration in the situation of elderly people living at home and relieve the burden on carers. Still, e-health doesn't take the flight we want. I will give another example of prevention when it comes to people with diabetes and people with terrible dementia. We know that adapting the lifestyle for many people has a large and positive impact on their health. A call has recently been made by doctors and researchers who say: bet on prevention; this prevents many people from suffering from dementia. I asked questions about this and I asked if the answers could come for the budget, but they have not yet arrived. I ask the Minister if they can be sent to us as soon as possible. However, we do not do enough with all this knowledge and calls. There are all examples from practice that show that we still have a long way to go when it comes to thinking from health and prevention rather than from disease. I therefore ask the two ministers whether and how they intend to put prevention at the centre of their policy areas. Shouldn't a percentage of the healthcare budget be earmarked for prevention? Shouldn't they make clearer choices when it comes to e-health instead of letting 1,000 flowers bloom and die again? Can we not agree more clearly on prevention in agreements with the sector, so that compensation for this commitment is no longer a problem? Because it still is in practice very often. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Looking back on the past two years, we can see that there has been a lot of social unrest surrounding the closure of hospitals or hospital posts. This unrest has everything to do with people feeling that the management of hospitals cannot be conducted sufficiently by the government. We just gave these out of our hands. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, it is a good thing that we also organise classical hospital care differently, with more care nearby. Let's get that straight. But if too little positive progress is seen, on the other hand, all emergency posts are closed and care in the region outside the Randstad disappears, then people are right to worry. There is constant talk of the right care in the right place. And yet by no means all health insurers conclude multi-annual contracts with hospitals to accompany this process properly. Doctors who work in the first line no longer fit into a DOT or a DBC and often do not receive compensation. It slows down the whole process. For example, we want the specialist on old-age medicine to work in the first line, but there too we see problems in contracting for the new way of working. In short, all these conditions are still not met. This is not how we are going to achieve change, nor is there any support from society. So this has to be different. What's the Minister gonna do about this? Also about the prices that pharmaceutical products demand, there is often a lot of anger among people, and I understand that very well. I must compliment the Minister, by the way, because he will deal with the pharmaceutical industry. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, it can be a bit harsher. It would also be good if pharmacies were to be able to prepare knowledge about Magistrate and make it possible to share it more financially. This often leads to loss in pharmacies. They would like to share more knowledge about the substance of the matter. When you do this, you often get an entire army of industry lawyers across from you, who have a lot of money and a long life, and that way pharmacists really intimidate. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to raise one more issue which is wrongly hardly mentioned in our debates: the CO-footprint in healthcare. Healthcare professionals want to make people healthy and therefore feel uncomfortable with the enormous waste and climate pollution caused by their sector. Does the Minister recognise this problem and is he prepared to make firm agreements with the sector on reducing CO emissions from healthcare? There is a huge responsibility on our shoulders to keep this earth habitable for our children. The healthcare sector can also play a positive role in this. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u89	Thank you. A question from Mrs Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u90	For us as a party, D66, it is also important to tackle CO emissions. Now I read a news report in which GroenLinks, in my opinion, together with the Christian Union, said that the ventilation system in hospitals should be switched off at night and that desflurane gas, which is used in anesthesia, should be replaced. I thought that was tricky. It is very good to give shape to the CO approach, but safety is of course also important. We must be careful not to sit as a Chamber in the seat of people who really know about anesthesia and substances that should or should not be in it. Does GroenLinks share that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u91	Sure. That is why these are proposals from the doctors themselves. For example, I visited the Amsterdam UMC. A number of doctors are working on that. They have drawn attention to this and have also been given time by their administration. They have started to see what they can do to reduce CO emissions, without compromising safety and patient care. For example, it emerged that they have ten operating rooms, which are on day and night, so to speak. They know they only need two out of ten rooms, so they might as well turn off the other eight at night. That is the example of the air change that is not necessary. When it comes to anaesthetic gases, it is the anesthesiologists themselves, so the profession itself, who say: there is a good alternative, which provides equally good quality care, with much less emissions. So I fully agree with Mrs Bergkamp that we should not sit on the doctor's chair, but we can help them to see for themselves what steps they can take to reduce CO emissions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u92	Then I am reassured, if the target group itself thinks along with it. Of course, that always requires customization, because one hospital is not the other hospital. If it's proposals from the target groups and if it's custom-made, then I'm reassured.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u93	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u94	Mrs Ellemeet just had an interrupting debate with Mrs Laan. I thought she'd tell you a little bit more about how she looks at the questions of how to give that innovation more space and how to give it more direction. I missed that a little bit, because I got the impression that you want to invest it all at VWS. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u95	Thank you for this question. Of course, you have your time, so you hope to be asked such questions, so you can say more about it. We can see that much is happening now in the field of innovation, but, as I said, it is a thousand flowers and they die again in beauty. There's got to be more direction. Of course, more directing doesn't mean we're going to do everything from the government, not at all. I do think it can help that VWS is also taking a role in this and looks at what are the proven effective interventions or innovations that we say we are going to boost. Because then you get the mass you need, for example from the industry, and you can say: we are really going to develop this. It is not only an investment from the government, but also from the industry. Let me start with this: I think this is good for patients and that this will benefit them. We can only scale this up if, for the longer term, companies working on it also have certainty that if they deliver a product, they will also know that it is being taken away. We need to look at what works well, what benefits patients, what is good workable for healthcare professionals, let's not forget that, and then make choices about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u96	Finally, Mr President. These are all important preconditions that I hear. What I do miss in this is the question of what it can contribute to reducing the cost of care. Is this also one of the preconditions that GroenLinks wants to look at in the assessment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u97	My goal is better care, both for the patient and for the caregiver. I think it is sometimes a bit of an outdated debate: the left is against innovation and the right is in favour. Guys, we live in the 21st century! I'm gonna say that to my left-wing friends. "Innovation" is not a bad concept. That's great, that's good for the caregivers and that's good for the patients, so let's all be open to that. Having said that, I think it should be about good care. It's not about saving money. That's not the goal for GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u98	Then that's established.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u99	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u100	Thank you. Then we'll listen to Mr Renkema. I'm trying to get lunch around the clock. If there is a need in box-K to wash hands before that time, I'll hear about it. Mr. Renkema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u101	Thank you, Mr President. My group colleague Ellemeet just asked why it is so difficult to shift the emphasis from care and being sick to health. I'd like to connect with that. Why is the theme of prevention, but also preventive work, not much higher on the agenda in the reception, in the Wmo and in the ggz? How can divisions between care and the broad social domain be removed? First of all, I think, because we focus too much attention on cure and care, on the healthcare system, also financially. This cabinet, too, does not really want to talk about this system and puts aside some side wheels in the form of action programmes. But I think it has to do with the prevailing ideology of self-reliance, of assertive independent citizens who can choose for themselves. That's our ideal. Now every human life knows moments when one is not self-reliant. A divorce, the loss of a loved one or the loss of a job puts that self-reliance to the test. But policy is mainly about autonomy, about independence, freedom of choice and self-direction, while these values are far from realistic in everyone's life. It is people who are psychologically vulnerable, have intellectual disabilities or have physical disabilities that need attention and guidance. I would like to highlight three groups in my contribution. The first group is that of the homeless and homeless. When a person becomes homeless or homeless, the government initially relies on their own self-reliance. Economic homeless people are better off outside social care. But where does someone have to go? Over the last ten years, the number of homeless people in the Netherlands has doubled and nearly 10,000 have been added over the last two years. Without a rural approach, the number of homeless people in the major cities and beyond will continue to increase in the coming years. As far as I am concerned, the government has a duty of care here and the government is also failing. The cabinet isn't doing enough. We have presented a plan of action to that effect. I would like to mention a number of elements. The first sees a place for the homeless in the economy. If someone offers a place of residence to someone else outside of social care, you could give them a financial bonus. I called it a mercy bonus. In Amsterdam, the Rainbow Group is already experimenting with the project Onder de Pannen. What does the Secretary of State think of this proposal? Secondly, former homeless people could be given a perspective by using them as an expert in experience. They must be trained to do so. Is the Secretary of State prepared to do this? If people from the protected home flow to a regular place of residence, then outpatient counseling from the Wmo is essential. That too is particularly preventive, because many former homeless people are otherwise at risk of getting back into trouble later in their lives. Would the Minister like to invest extra within the Wmo? Things like access to the shelter, contact with the municipality and getting a letter address are very complex for someone who hardly has any rights anymore. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that the number of street attorneys and client support are currently undersized? We re-invest in this. A second group are people waiting for care from the ggz. The waiting lists in the ggz are still long. For some diseases they even grow again. I've heard a lot of stories about that. People are sent from the locker to the wall, they have to wait and wait again and hope for an intake, a diagnosis or a treatment. What do you mean, self-reliant? What do you mean freedom of choice? There are currently nearly 1,000 open vacancies for ggz psychologists and clinical psychologists, but training places are far behind demand. I therefore ask the Secretary of State if he is prepared to temporarily increase the number of training places by 100 places in the coming years. Then the third group, people with disabilities. This week I was visiting a health care organisation that offers people with learning difficulties daily use, but which wants to give people the opportunity to develop, to get a perspective and possibly even to take the step towards sheltered work. I know that this is not about financial self-reliance at all. The most important thing is that people are seen, that they are allowed to participate in our society and that they are recognised. As the Minister knows, since 2016 the Netherlands has also committed to UN disability behaviour, but my preliminary conclusion is that participation is still insufficient. A lot of people tell me that because of their limitations, they can't participate in society by a long shot. This is often due to legislation and regulations, for example if a formal education route is not available or accessible. I have the following questions to the Minister. Does he agree with GroenLinks that we really need to do everything we can to comply with the UN Convention? How far has he gone with the waiver of legislation, for example between the Wmo and the Participation Act? Is the Minister prepared, in cooperation with OCW colleagues, to look at tailor-made funding opportunities for people who want to follow such a practical learning line from day-to-day and sheltered work? Mr. Chairman. I want to finish my speech with words from this week's NRC, from Jeroen Postma, the former chairman of GroenLinks. I think he said it very strikingly: "No one is really self-reliant in the deepest sense, although we do seem to expect it from the most vulnerable in our society." Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u102	Thank you. So much for GroenLinks' contribution. We're gonna listen to Mrs. Van den Berg from the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u103	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Also this year I have rebuilt my input around three b's: care needs to be available, affordable and accessible. Every time I go to work, I talk to people who are concerned about the accessibility of care. In Hoogeveen, where only 30% of emergency care remains. In Twente, where the doctor's office in Oldenzaal closes. In Lelystad, where a hospital disappeared. In Gennep, where the ambulances don't get here in time. And in Tholen, because of the location of the new hospital in Roosendaal. And then Woerden, where after five o'clock in the afternoon there is no GP. Care must be changed with less market forces, more cooperation and more direction by the government. Let me start with availability. We are dealing with waiting lists in the ggz, drug shortages, too few places for multi-problems, twice-a-day stops in the emergency services, almost 40,000 homeless people, and last but not least, labour market shortages that put pressure on care in many places. This is reinforced by the absenteeism, which increased to 5.9% in 2018, and the course, which increased to 15.7%. That's mopping with the tap open. Einstein said it: "If you do what you always did, you get what you always got." "Innovation" and "innovation in many areas" are therefore the key words for me. Let's start with the labour market. Health care policies are light years behind other sectors. There is not enough investment in training. Many nurses and caregivers work according to their own insights rather than being trained in the latest insights into effective care. Is the Minister talking to the sector about investing in training and real innovations, such as Anders Working? Preventing care and not unnecessarily medicalising are of course the best and at the same time improve the availability of care. This can be done in the first place through greater focus on the importance of food, on food as a medicine. About one in five patients are malnourished in the Netherlands, but there is hardly any check to see if there are any complaints that are caused by this. Can the Minister, in talks with hospitals, ensure that the Malnutrition Directive is implemented everywhere? Of course we should start with children. It is good that the Prevention Agreement aims at a smoke-free generation and pays attention to obesity, because almost 12% of young children are overweight, but support is very limited. Children receive unlimited logo therapy, ten hours of ergotherapy, eighteen hours of physiotherapy or unlimited if chronically ill, but a child dietician is reimbursed for up to three hours. Is the Minister prepared to have an investigation into the impact of more hours for the infant dietician and to have the results available for the package management consultation in June 2020? Secondly, health complaints can also be caused, for example, by debts that need to be resolved in the social domain. In the PZC there was recently a story about CZ, that someone had given a car and thus saved tons of care money. Collaboration between healthcare providers is essential for this. Digitisation can simplify and accelerate that process, especially in areas with fewer inhabitants, such as Zeeland. That is why we are tabling an amendment. Thirdly, increasing self-reliance also helps to reduce the pressure on care. This can be done with apps and websites, such as homedoctor.nl, but they must be reliable, both in terms of information content and data security: what information do you leave behind? The UMC Leiden has developed the National eHealth Living Lab. In collaboration with students throughout the Netherlands and, among other things, with the GGD and MIND, these apps and websites check out, but they lack the means to deal with this adequately. That is why we are tabling an amendment. Mr. Veldman has supported that in the meantime. However, not everyone can be self-reliant. For some people, the world has become very complex and complicated. For example, the increase in the number of nearly 40,000 homeless people is poignant. What actions does the Secretary of State take? And what action does the Secretary of State take to accommodate the 90,000 people with misunderstood behavior for whom the police are now usually called? Mr. Chairman. Then there is the lack of places for people with learning difficulties and also another psychiatric problem. The percentage of clients with double or even triple diagnosis in disability care has increased from 32.5% in 2011 to 44.5% in 2017. We've read the response to our parliamentary questions. On the question of the relationship between the reduction of ggz and the increase of complex problems in the disability sector, the Minister actually says that he cannot answer that question, whereas this is a very relevant question for the CDA. Is the Minister prepared to carry out an investigation or an inventory of current national coverage and how many additional places are needed for people with double problems? Mr. Chairman. Then the affordability. The reason why the CDA considers it so important is that we attach great importance to solidarity. It's under pressure. Recently, news came that more than 40% of the Dutch population think that people who live unhealthy should pay more care premiums. That's based on the assumption that people owe this to themselves. But take a child who gets bullied and develops, for example, an eating disorder or someone who goes bankrupt, loses his partner, drinks and ends up in the street. Or you just inherited bad genes. The old proverb doesn't say for nothing: without happiness no one can sail. Happiness can tilt in a second, for example through a car accident. On 14 October I was allowed to present the book Heroes at the Zeeuwse ggz-instituut Emergis. Beautiful stories of people who, despite bad luck and bad luck, have got their lives back on track. I would like to give a copy of this through the messenger, the Secretary of State and Minister De Jonge.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u104	Thank you. The handover will be provided. You have two copies for three rulers!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u105	It's not Minister Bruins' file.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u106	I think that's really hard. I have to stand up for the rulers here, I'm afraid. He's getting both now. Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u107	I do not know whether Mrs Van den Berg has finished the heading 'payability'. I have a question about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u108	I'm not done with that yet, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u109	Let me just try. I spoke to Mrs Agema later on about our proposal to pay the healthcare premiums more fairly. Now we have had an examination of the views of the various parties on the possibility of bringing the cost of care to the tax instead of the monthly fixed premium. Now it turns out that a larger part of the CDA voters also think it is a good idea to stop the fixed premium that goes to the health insurance company and simply pay the care out of the taxes. I wonder if Mrs Van den Berg will join a majority of her supporters.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u110	Well, then we're not gonna do it. We'd be happy to see where to put your accents. We are certainly prepared to do so. In this sense, it is also an interesting research that the SP has carried out. But we sincerely believe in the idea of insurance to keep people aware of the fact that care costs money. As far as we are concerned, the idea of insurance is an essential element in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u111	The point is that it stays. You are well aware that the SP ultimately wants a national health fund, and then we no longer need these insurers, but that is not what this proposal was about, of course. We have not yet abolished insurers in this proposal. So you could also say that in the end this is only about how healthcare costs are paid. We now see that people earning €100,000 percent contribute much less to the cost of care than people with a modal, two-fold or a minimum income. Then we say: that is not fair, that can be fairer. A majority of your constituents feel the same way, which is what a majority of voters in our country think anyway. My question is: will you look with us at how we can arrange this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u112	Mr Hijink says that the health insurance provider will not be abolished, but the care premium will be abolished. Mr Hijink is going to tax it completely. At least we do not want to go down that road. Again, I'd like to look at accents. I think that we had made different choices in our electoral programme than we finally reached in the coalition agreement. We believe that this involvement of citizens through the payment of a health premium is an important element.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u113	Mrs. Ellemeet?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u114	Let's keep going on this one. I mentioned in my speech that we were in Denmark and Sweden last week, including your colleague Mr Slootweg. One of the great things there is that care is paid through taxes both in Denmark and Sweden. That does not mean that there are no incentives in the system to keep everyone sharp, because that is often said: if you do that through taxes, you do not retain awareness of costs. That turned out not to be the case at all, because you can also come up with other incentives where you keep the municipalities focused on providing good care. I therefore believe that we can see in other countries that it is working very well and that there is no discussion between the right and the left about paying care through taxes. So perhaps Mrs Van den Berg would like to look into how it is organized there. It would be nice if we could look at this solution with an open eye.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u115	In any case, I am always willing to look at solutions with an open mind. Again, we do not say: as it is now, it is cast into concrete. We also see, for example, the problem of how to better work together across the domains of the Health Insurance Act, the Wmo and the Long-Term Care Act and how to organise it better. So it wasn't poured into concrete for us. Indeed, we think it is extremely important to keep that personal involvement of the citizen through that commitment, so that it also finds that care really costs a lot of money.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u116	We see that care costs in Sweden and Denmark are no higher than in the Netherlands. So in that sense there will also be a cost awareness among everyone, but this is a system that is easier, less hassle and where we still see incentives. So it is good that Mrs Van den Berg says that we should not close our eyes to the good examples from abroad, even when it comes to paying the care via taxes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u117	Fine. You are continuing, Mrs Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u118	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In order to maintain this solidarity, care must remain affordable. It should be made more clear that there are obligations as well as rights. We have already made proposals to this effect, but we want to make them even more stringent. We therefore also support the proposal that the SP should be made, that the General Court should be able to carry out further investigations on health insurers. We also want obligations for healthcare providers, health insurers and healthcare providers. These healthcare providers include companies such as pharmaceutical companies, medical devices companies and ICT companies. He CDA wants practical research into effectiveness and side effects to be mandatory for all expensive medicines and treatments and all medical devices. It is good that the Minister has at least carried out my motion that the medicines that cost more than €50,000 should in principle be provided with a biomarker, but would like a response from the Minister to the other proposals. Is the Minister prepared to allow Gupta to investigate the possibilities of making generic medicines back into Europe instead of being dependent on countries like China? Because we think this is part of a vital sector. Secondly, the duties of health insurers. The CDA wants only proven effective care to be reimbursed. Now there are a thousand flowers that bloom. Nothing's being evaluated. Each doctor makes his or her own choices regarding treatment, medication and means, and even if his or her own directive indicates that, for example, a knee viewing operation is not effective, it is done. That's gotta stop. In addition, a lot of money goes to overhead. The CDA wants a fee of overhead based on a benchmark and also wants this rate to be adjusted downwards annually. Recent research by the Dutch Healthcare Authority shows that the policy forest has not been reduced yet. Is the Minister prepared to discuss these issues with health insurers and report back to the House of Representatives?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u119	Is Mrs Van Dan Berg prepared to support my proposal on the workplace bonus in order to bring the overhead down?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u120	If I have just listened to Mrs Agema's contribution, it was about bringing the overhead back to long-term care. I would like Mrs Agema to put that question to my colleague Mr Slootweg. I would like to support the general principle of looking at who has the best practice with regard to overhead and to implement it for the rest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u121	I have been making this proposal since 2006 and then on curative care. That is where we see that, for example, people with non-patient contact are only increasing. In fact, the academic medical centres now account for 52%. We therefore proposed a plan of this kind at the time. That was never supported by the CDA. I think it is very nice that we can at least mark here that the CDA also wants to go that way. Because we're talking about the organisability of care, and these people are already on the payroll. So my question to Mrs van den Berg is: is she going to support us instead of always voting against?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u122	Of course, it depends on whether Mrs Agema is going to make a very concrete proposal. That is what we want to look at in detail. Once again, however, we wholeheartedly support the starting point and the principle. Mr. Chairman. Thirdly, I discuss the duties of healthcare providers and healthcare providers. There must be a learning culture in all areas of care. This means that there must be permanent benchmarking, such as for example with orthopedics. In addition, we need to stop the "not invented by me" syndrome. There should also be opportunities for all healthcare providers to participate in research on the effectiveness of care. For example, we understand that not all hospitals are yet connected to the oncology studies. Is that where the minister's gonna take the lead? The CDA wants the directives of now 2,400 occupational groups to be based on a widely supported state of technology and practice, and to be consulted with and supported by adjacent occupational groups. So they must not be made by their own profession alone. Is the Minister prepared to discuss this with the industry? Mr. Chairman. Then there's the accessibility. Accessibility is part of the quality of care for the CDA. That is why I have issued my initiative paper "Care in the region," the Health Institute is preparing my motion on a viability analysis, and my proposal will include an opinion on acute care by the Health and Society Council. I am pleased that the Minister accepts my proposals on mandatory consultation with regional directors and residents in the event of changes in acute care. I am also pleased that regional images are being produced for each region, in cooperation with RIVM, because care provision needs to be tailored to healthcare demand. Urk has 2% births, in Zeeland-Flanders it is only 0.7%, but on the other hand there are many elderly with chronic diseases. However, this consultation in the region is not yet going well. That's why the CDA wants more direction. That is why we want an independent healthcare director who can look above-regional. If regional directors and institutions do not come out together, this care director will be given perseverance, such as the Healthcare Institute, which has quality frameworks. I'd like a response from the Minister. In addition, we want it to be clearer for everyone where we can get immediate family care. In countries such as Denmark, Sweden and Wales there is good experience with such a number besides 112. Is the Minister prepared to investigate whether one national general practitioner's emergency number could come? Mr. Chairman. It also starts with the children on accessibility. Rick Brink, disabled ambassador, aims to allow children with disabilities to play in the playground around the corner. This requires adjustments. Is the Minister prepared to consult the municipalities, for example with the VNG, in order to agree on how playgrounds can also be accessible to children with disabilities? Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to take the opportunity to thank all those passionate caregivers I meet during my work visits for their commitment, because people make the difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u123	Thank you. Mrs. Laan?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u124	I sense a certain tendency at the CDA, namely that everything needs to be regulated nationally with national directors. Now we even have to deal with playgrounds nationwide. You're also from the local government. Don't municipalities have all kinds of ideas about how to deal with playgrounds? They're doing great business with that, right? Do we have to get involved in this from the Lower House?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u125	Rick Brink aims to make all these playgrounds accessible to children with disabilities. We wholeheartedly support that objective. Mrs Laan is quite right when she says that it is ultimately the municipalities that have to do so, but we ask the Minister if he is prepared to talk to the municipalities to bring this particular point to the attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u126	Locking up. I think that a lot of municipalities in the Netherlands have been doing this for a very long time and are also happy to support this wonderful example, but let us focus here on the things that we really are talking about and leave it to municipalities where they want a thousand flowers to bloom.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u127	There will probably be municipalities that have already taken very nice initiatives on this, but we also hear of playgrounds around which there is a fence. That's understandable, but sometimes a child with a wheelchair can't even get through that fence, to give you an example. We would therefore like the Minister to discuss this point with the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u128	The CDA and Mrs van den Berg have warm words for the local hospitals and for care close to the people, in the region. It is only a pity that a proposal from the SP to give more influence to local government is then voted off. But now the CDA is coming up with the proposal for a care director. Now there is a researcher who might become a care director in Flevoland and who believes that there should be 40 large hospitals in the Netherlands and that there is no place for emergency care or acute obstetrics in Lelystad. How does the CDA see such a situation? That's totally undemocratic, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u129	Let me first respond to Mr Van Gerven's first remark and explain why we did not support the SP proposal for local government participation. We think that you really should look at care regionally and even provincially. That is why we talk about regional directors every time and not about local directors. The care director we have in mind must, of course, be given a clear mandate. We, as a Chamber, will have to complete this task together. Is there gonna be 40 hospitals left? I don't know. All I know is that we're going to have to change care enormously in order to make it future-proof. The fact that we are perhaps going to do this in other ways than we are now doing is very obvious in the case of the CDA, but that does not mean that the concern does not have to be reduced. It is precisely in order to keep care in the region accessible that we want care to be organised differently. We want more cooperation and more use to be made of innovations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u130	The question is, who are we supposed to be directing care? That should be the doctors and the aid workers in the sector, as well as the people who need the care, that is, the people in the region itself. They are represented, for example, by municipal authorities. But the CDA is saying goodbye to democracy by investing it with a care director, which we have nothing to say about. The power is thus given out again, now not to health insurers, who think commercially, but to a care director with his own opinion. Shouldn't the starting point be to organise care according to the needs of the people? Because the ageing population is increasing and it is crucial that hospital care is also provided around the corner, for example, in Flevoland.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u131	We have argued in favour of regionalisation so that it becomes much clearer what the need for care per region is. I support Mr Van Gerven in this: you have to map that carefully. If you leave it to the caregivers alone, then those thousand flowers will come into being again, because then every caregiver or group of caregivers will decide for themselves how they feel they should. We believe that there should be a learning culture and that you should also stop the "not invented by me" syndrome. We now hear for example that Isala in Zwolle has a nice trajectory for COPD care at a distance. Not everything needs to happen in the hospital; this care can also be organised in other ways. Yet you can see in many other places in the country that everyone develops their own COPD care pathway. In this sense, we want more direction. The minister says he doesn't want to direct it. That is why we say: then we propose a care director. We want more national direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u132	Mrs van den Berg has said a few times: it starts with children. I would like to go back a little bit: it also starts with the birth. We have already discussed here in the Chamber a number of times the possibility of abolishing our own contribution to outpatient care. Mrs Agema has talked about this, Mrs Ellemeet has talked about it and the Labour Party is already asking me to look at my note; so long ago it has been over since 2013. In 2016, the Zorginstituut also said that it would be a good idea to abolish that own contribution for outpatient delivery. It would be cost-effective. Would Mrs Van den Berg be inclined to support a proposal to ask the Minister what should happen, so that we can decide in June 2020 that our own contribution to outpatient delivery will be cut off?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u133	In my opinion, Mrs Agema has also said before that the mortality rate for babies in the Netherlands is quite high compared to other countries. It's about outpatient labor with a non-medical necessity.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u134	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u135	In my opinion, there is no risk of being taken into account when medically necessary. I'm very interested. At least I have a positive basic position, let me put it this way. So I'm interested in the concrete proposal. We should then discuss this in the package discussion for the 2021 package. That's how I understand Mrs Ploumen, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u136	Yes. If we went through the process carefully, it would be the first possible moment. I'd prefer it sooner, but that's how it goes. So we are working out a proposal along those lines. I welcome Mrs van den Berg's positive attitude.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u137	From having a baby to having a baby. And to the VVD I say: sorry, it's about the playgrounds. Last year I asked the Minister the same thing, namely: talk to the VNG to look at more co-ops. We as D66 consider it important that a child with disabilities can simply participate. Then it turned out that in 400 municipalities there are only 60 co-ops. I think it would be very good to ask the Minister today if he has made any progress in that area. We've been a year. We've asked to discuss it. Also include it in the implementation plan when it comes to the UN Convention for People with Disabilities. So let's see if there's progress in it. Otherwise, I think it would be very good to stick together in order to stimulate that further.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u138	I am only pleased with Mrs Bergkamp's support for the idea that there should be more of these places in the municipalities. But again, it is up to the municipalities to realize that. Hopefully the Minister can stimulate it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u139	Maybe one final comment. You've got the Playground Gang. They are very well able to inspect all kinds of playgrounds, including with children. It sometimes requires very small adjustments to make a playground suitable for children with disabilities. So I also ask the Minister, if he doesn't have the exact figures available, to at least get in touch with the Playground Gang to see what that progression looks like now and whether there are more collusion spots than a year ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u140	Not about playgrounds, but about kids. I was actually pleased with Mrs van den Berg's contribution to prevention. She made the comparison between a child dietician and physiotherapy. But shouldn't we as a society make sure that there's just a lot less sugar in our soda and in our food? Doesn't the government have a role in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u141	Then Mr Renkema asks me a little bit. If I remember correctly, we clearly did not talk about sugar in the Prevention Agreement. At the CDA there is also a lot of discussion about the whole sugar dossier. We see absolutely the objective that it would be good for children to take less sugar drinks, but to impose this now legally is a little too much for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u142	The term "proven effective" has also been mentioned several times. So let me make the question a little more specific. A proven effective measure is a sugar tax on soft drinks. Is the CDA gonna think that way?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u143	In proven effective I have really talked about the care as such. If we are going to talk about proven effective in general, we may also be able to bring in a lot of other files. My focus has been proven effective care.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u144	Thank you. Then we will listen to the other representative of the CDA, Mr Slootweg. When he's finished, we'll have lunch.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u145	Mr. Chairman. At the Christian-Social Congress, Minister De Jonge this year said the following words: "I want people to know that the government is there for them." The minister said that we sometimes organized the human dimension away, that there is a difference between wretches and wretches and that market forces have gone through. These words are taken from my heart. The government as a shield for the weak. Also during working visits, on the phone and in my mailbox, I am confronted with citizens who have been abandoned by institutions or have the experience of being sent from the cabinet to the wall and back and forth. The government that's there for people. Many carers experience a government too often letting them muddle through. The desire of many people to grow old at home and the much larger group of older people means that an increasing number of people will be called on to family and friends. That calls for a cultural change. With colleagues we have visited Sweden and Denmark. Mrs Ellemeet already referred to that. Sweden, for example, has twice as much care support from family and friends as the Netherlands. Each municipality has a family care advisor there; now that I say this I think it will be called something else there. It is his job to set up care support within the municipality, so that there are enough places to allow residents who need care to stay there for a short period of time so that care can catch their breath. But it also means something in the workplace when more and more workers start to perform family care tasks. Is the Minister prepared to ask the Economic and Social Committee for an additional opinion on a working combination on the sole subject of family care and to ask the Economic and Social Committee how companies and organisations can prepare themselves for the fact that more and more employees will be able and willing to support these workers? The government must be there for the most vulnerable groups, such as those with learning disabilities without a GP. 5,000 physically and intellectually limited people no longer have a general practitioner and the Association Disability Care Netherlands wrote a fire letter to this minister. Another 8,000 disabled people are at risk of losing family health care because local family doctor's posts cancel contracts with the institutions where they live. 13,000 disabled people without a GP, at least in the evenings and weekends. General practitioners find the problem too complicated. In a guide recently issued by the GP Dome LHV, conditions are described when they wish to provide care. On the one hand, my group understands the concern of the general practitioners very well and my group also believes that care institutions are responsible for a proper treatment service. But we have asked questions about this and we would like them to be answered. Because it is not possible for people with intellectual disabilities to suffer from this discussion between institutions on the one hand and general practitioners on the other? We believe that the structural solution lies in the training of sufficient doctors for the mentally handicapped (GDPRs). More doctors for the mentally handicapped can already be trained today than apply for them. How does the Minister view a compulsory fellowship at the institution for people with disabilities during the study of medicine? So at least when you're following a fellowship, you come by there, so students get in touch with that profession. Could this not also be a solution to the lack of specialists in old-age medicine? In doing so, I am deeply concerned about the problems experienced by specialists in the field of old-age medicine to be contracted by health insurers so that they can offer their services in the first line. The procurement criteria, the turnover ceilings, the requirements of health insurance companies, such as being a legal person, and the fact that the specialists are not allowed to carry out their work for patients at home, hinders a contract. Is the Minister prepared to resolve this? It is almost November and the contracts must be concluded by 2020. Then the growing waiting lists for a place in the nursing home. The CDA is in favour of letting people grow old at home as long as possible, but there is a group that relies on care in a nursing home. A number of trends. Often elderly people stay on the wrong bed, the hospital bed, because there is no bed in the nursing home. There is a practice of one crisis placement for another crisis placement. There are degrees of crisis placements, because not all crises can be placed, with all the consequences. The geriatric nursing home beds are for people who need temporary help, but 50% of those people still have to go to a nursing home, because it doesn't go home anymore. The CDA welcomes the extra 250 million to address the waiting list issue, on which the Minister wrote a letter to the Chamber. We do have questions about how this is going to be intended. How do we know this money's gonna be used for those extra places? Is that how every nursing home receives extra resources? Or are the regions that know the longest waiting list served first? The image of the shield is beautiful, especially when you know that a shield has become an increasingly ingenious protection tool in the course of history. That was because of technology and innovation. Innovation is needed to meet the growing demand for care. But this image has been used more often today than we really have to stop blooming with "meaning flowers." This question of direction. It can't be that nurses get an iPad anymore, but that Wi-Fi hasn't been considered. Does the Minister not think it is time to draw up national guidelines on what innovative measures should be implemented because they are proven to be effective in saving healthcare costs?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u146	I would like to go back to the nursing homes and the closure of the nursing homes, which, of course, was also attended by the CDA and which, unfortunately, a large part of this Chamber voted for at the time. Some have made excuses: GroenLinks for example. Super good, and I hope others will do the same, because we have long come to the conclusion that there is a huge shortage of places in the nursing home, but also of places in, for example, the nursing home and care-house-like buildings. The SP proposed an additional EUR 40 million next year in the construction of small-scale housing for the elderly. I wonder if the CDA will support that proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u147	I think Mr Hijink is making an ongoing plea for these care neighbourhoods. In my view, in an earlier discussion on the initiative law, we indicated that we actually think that is a very positive plan. We still have a number of questions to ask. Do you really have to set this up around indication? Do you really just have to set this up for people with a bigger care question? For example, we see a lot of opportunities ourselves where you mix people with a care question and people without a care question a little more. So once again, I am actually in favour of thinking about how to do that. I think the amount's pretty good. I think it is an incredibly interesting way to explore, if we can look at pilots and if we can also look at whether it could be other forms besides the health centre. Well, then we'll just have to look at the amount of money we're paying. I find it really very interesting what the SP brings out about the care neighbourhood house.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u148	I hope your next answer is a little more pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u149	Yeah, we're gonna do it. We haven't had the conciseness training yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u150	Look, that $40 million doesn't just go to health care homes. As far as we are concerned, it goes to all kinds of small-scale housing for the elderly. That's the first thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u151	That is not in the amendment, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u152	Mr Hijink has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u153	There's talk to us about that. The point is this. This minister, Minister De Jonge, has very few buttons to turn on when more places are needed in the nursing homes. He always refers to others who have to do it. To the housing corporations and then to the Home Secretary. Always someone else has to do it. Now we have one button that we can turn to when it comes to care for the elderly, namely the access we give people to institutions for care for the elderly. That is, of course, the background to this amendment and also to previous proposals that we have made. Just make sure that a wider group gets access to a nursing home or a health care neighborhood. That can be arranged by this minister. That's what we can do here today. Then we don't depend on what housing corporations do and what others do. I hope the CDA will think with us in that direction. Otherwise, it's just not gonna make any sense. The deficits are now large and they will only increase if we wait for this minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u154	Mr President, I am trying to be brief and concise. Want to think along, yes, but just a little bit wider than just the way the care neighbourhood is now formulated.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u155	My colleague Mrs Van den Berg concluded her contribution with a word of thanks to the staff in the care and she said: those people make the difference. I couldn't agree more. I always call the employees in the care the cork on which the care floats. I had hoped that Mr Slootweg would go into more detail about the position of the staff in the care sector. He didn't, so I'm gonna give him an opportunity to say something about that through an interruption. Would the CDA like to make a difference to the employees in the care? Last time, I put forward a proposal to make more money available to the healthcare workers. That proposal did not then, except for one vote, because the coalition parties voted against it. We're going to retable it today. Would the CDA like to make a difference to the employees in the care?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u156	Yes, but that can be done in different ways and I do not share with him that it is only the only button Mr Kerstens wants to turn on when he says: it is only a question of salary. I'm not finished either, by the way. One of the most important dissatisfiers for caregivers and nurses is the administrative burden. Finally, when it comes to the negotiations on salaries, as a politician, I am always very reluctant to interfere. I really think that's something between the social partners.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u157	The latter is the case, I say as a former trade union negotiator. The first thing Mr Slootweg said is not so. I'm not saying that the only button that should be turned to prevent people from walking out of care massively is increasing their salary. But it's a very important one, that's what they say themselves when they're asked about the reason for their departure. What specific measures does the CDA propose to make a difference to the people in the care sector? What concrete measures, which these people feel? Moreover, the collective agreement is about this, but we are largely about the bag of money that is on the table there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u158	Then perhaps the best thing for me to do is pursue my argument. Then we will see if that gives the answer that Mr Kerstens wants to hear. Mr. Chairman. The Minister of VWS indicated that the disruption of care is going too slowly. I agree. I notice from my contacts with nurses and caregivers that those who participated in the project are often more concerned about this than about the scraping sessions. The studies show that the administrative burden has even increased despite all efforts. The CDA wants to challenge the sector. Can we not impose conditions on care purchases by health offices and on funds through the Municipal Fund in order to actually reduce the burden of coordination and administrative burdens? You could, for example, give a bonus to an organisation that in two years' time reduces coordination and administration costs by, say, 5%. I would like to hear a response from the Minister. Can we also look at the impact of administrative burdens and the accumulation of measures on people with chronic illness? They deal with many different provisions, laws and regulations in different areas of life. The CDA would like to know where the biggest obstacles lie for them. We are convinced that, when we look at people's practical experience, we come to new insights. Then we can look more closely at which buttons the government can or needs to turn. For example: to what extent does this group know about the possibility of a care allowance and does the tax system financially affect people with disabilities who live together or are married? Perhaps then we will see things that the government can improve and that can make a big difference for people. Is the Minister prepared to follow a number of people and families with disabilities for a year? Mr. Chairman. This year I have asked several questions about all kinds of care structures that are undesirable as far as the CDA is concerned. The inspection recently ruled on the institution for people with disabilities, DeSeizones, where people with double hats are on the supervisory board and the board of directors. This minister is taking a number of measures such as the new Wtza. Is that enough? Are there sufficient grounds to recommend supervision? I'm not sure. Let me take an example of how this has been dealt with in another sector. DNB tests the knowledge of potential members of pension fund boards. Is he or she an addition to the sitting members? Does he bring other knowledge? Knowledge is something you have to keep up. We believe that the requirements for membership of the Supervisory Board should be strengthened. What is the Minister's view? Mr. Chairman. In conclusion. This year we celebrate 75 years of freedom; an event with numerous activities. The CDA thinks this is very important. And what we also think is important is that it reaches young people. The government has made additional funds available to support a number of additional projects and museums. For example, the National Monument Kamp Vught will soon open a new space. There is also an audio tour especially for the youth. Great! Still, I'd like to close with a few questions. Are young people sufficiently involved in activities around 75 years of freedom? Does all activities involving representatives of young people consider how the story can be passed on to them in a contemporary form?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u159	I just want to get back to the drivers in the care. I read Mr Slootweg's proposal to screen drivers in healthcare this morning. The performer must become the Dutch Healthcare Authority. I think that's a great idea. But why did Mr. Slootweg vote against my proposal two years ago that was exactly the same?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u160	Yes, but if you look at the exact wording... I actually want to stay away from that. In this case, I think Mrs Agema had a good point and we were ahead in that sense. I want to see how we can do this. How exactly should this be invested? I am grateful to Mrs Agema. She saw a good point here before me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u161	I don't think that's enough. You brought this actively to the press this morning. I'm assuming we're gonna discuss this here and we're gonna have a motion or something. Since you made exactly the same proposal as I made two years ago and you voted against it, I will, of course, make this proposal again. I'm not gonna let the CDA steal my idea again, and as a result I'm finally gonna be able to vote in favour of your motion. Here's what I'm gonna do. I am going to put this proposal back into a motion and I am counting on your support this time, because I am really tired of it. The CDA votes against every proposal. They're gonna have to take a look at it. It's about the wording. Against, against, against. And then you go to the paper with my proposal. I'm so sick of it!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u162	Let me say two things about that. I think we're having a debate here with the Minister. I just want to hear his answer to this, but I will clearly state where we stand. Second. If Mrs Agema thinks I have not been too grateful to her, I would like to mark a difference here. I looked at how De Nederlandsche Bank did this for pension fund management. I remember your motion, and it looked a little different.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u163	I'm sorry, Mr President, it's the exact same proposal. It's exactly the same proposal you made in the paper this morning. Well, don't pull up a smokescreen...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u164	No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u165	...you vote against and then you steal an idea. And that's how it's been with the CDA every time, for years. You were already in the room at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u166	Sure. I pointed out in advance that Mrs Agema might have had something ahead of my thinking, of my development. I do believe, however, that during that period a number of things have emerged in the Chamber when it comes to inspection reports which we did not know exactly. Minister De Jonge has already indicated in the beginning not much to see in, for example, a licensing obligation. We have different views on this in a number of areas. So in that sense, we don't find that a problem at all. But I think there is still a nuance between Mrs Agema's proposal which she did at the time and the run-up we took.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u167	Sorry, Mrs. Agema, I'm not going to give you the floor again, I'm sorry. Mr. Renkema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u168	I welcome the attention given by Mr Slootweg to 75 years of liberation, which is, of course, reflected in this budget for 2020. You specifically mention young people, to involve them in that important memorial. To what extent do you look at Indian history and the history of Indian Dutch people, a history that I have forgotten? Does he also want to bring young people into contact with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u169	Yes. Our history is much wider than that of the Netherlands in Europe. It was a world war, which has had consequences for many people who live here and their descendants around the world. So it doesn't stop with me in that sense around May 5th.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u170	Finalizing, Mr. Chairman. I tabled a motion a while ago that gave the Dutch education room to give more substance to this Indian history. After all, many young people have pictures of the liberation in the Netherlands. Unfortunately, that motion was not supported by the CDA at the time. Is that a matter of progressive insight?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u171	I understand very well what Mr Renkema wants to do: you want to use the education system, because that is the most direct form. However, as a spokesperson, I feel that I should be a little reluctant to deal with other people's issues. Furthermore, I understood that, despite the fact that this motion was not adopted, there has been a discussion on how to give this a place. Do I want to take over this right now? I actually want to see how schools work on this themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u172	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u173	I'm suspending until 1:40 p.m., 1:30 p.m. First of all, we have a not very long regulation of work. After that, we will first listen to the SP, and one of the highlights will be Mrs Van Esch's maiden speech from the Party Party for Animals.
