ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u1	After a short suspension and after we have had the VSO Informal Energy Council, we now move on to the VAO Mining/Groningen. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Beckerman on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The motion for a resolution 'General pardon of damage caused by gas extraction': [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that almost 17,500 claims are open to the TCMG;]] [[Whereas the processing of these claims will continue for years at the current rate;]] [[Whereas this is unacceptable in view of the statements made by the Minister of EZK to address the treatment of damages in an integral, generous and humane manner;]] [[calls on the Government to step up its efforts to speed up the handling of claims that are open to TCMG, with the possibility of automatic compensation for existing damages, without having to answer the question of causality,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman, Mr Wassenberg, Mr Sienot, Mr Nijboer, Mr Kops and Mr Van der Lee.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-594]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u3	Then the motion "insurance injury in case of earthquakes": [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that many entrepreneurs are in great uncertainty and are waiting for their unsafe premises to be strengthened;]] [[noting that entrepreneurs with reinforcement advice are now not insured for injury caused by an earthquake;]] [[Whereas this is an additional concern for operators in the quake area;]] [[calls on the Government to remove this additional concern for entrepreneurs and to guarantee immediately that they will never be held liable for injury caused by an earthquake,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman, Mr Wassenberg, Mr Nijboer, Mr Kops and Mr Van der Lee.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-595]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u4	Then I could take a breath for my third motion, the motion "extra capacity enhancement": [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the strengthening of unsafe buildings in Groningen is still far too slow;]] [[Whereas this has a major physical and mental impact on the inhabitants and users of these buildings;]] [[noting that it is unclear where bottlenecks exist and how high the costs are;]] [[calls on the government, together with the region, to:]] [[take acceleration measures to significantly increase the number of inspections and withdrawals;]] [[enter into binding agreements with local contractors and construction companies in particular on reinforcement and new construction;]] [[to open up bottlenecks and costs;]] [[and inform the Chamber about this by May 2019 at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman, Mr Wassenberg, Mr Nijboer, Mr Kops and Mr Van der Lee.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-596]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u5	Mr. Chairman. There is no time to debate again here, but I still have room for one sentence. I hope three times the charm is at the general's pardon, because there are so many people stuck. That really has to change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u6	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Mulder on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u7	Mr President, thank you very much. To add to Mrs Beckerman's words: if the general's route does not work, then of course other routes must be found in order to improve the situation of the Groningen people as quickly as possible. In it she finds me by her side. I'm not excited about that general's pardon, because it doesn't seem technically possible. But everything we can and must do, we must do. Mr. Chairman. We just had a constructive committee debate. In the meantime, new information from the State surveillance of the Mines has come to light, namely the review of the risk analysis of the gas extraction in Groningen. How does the Minister indicate this review? In any case, we see that more houses need to be inspected. The Minister has promised us to come out with a builder variant for reinforcement or elements for reinforcement. We also have a motion on this, tabled by a colleague. But he limited that to the execution. Our question is: when will he talk to the contractors? Will he therefore ask them to what extent they see possible alternative routes for the lack of assessment capacity? Our question to the Minister is: does he want to talk to these contractors to see how things could possibly be different throughout the chain, so that we can apply accelerations? And my question is: is the Minister prepared to inform us about this for the next committee debate? Let me ask you a practical question. Has the Centre Secure Living already been commissioned to carry out the approved municipal plans? So I'm talking about both the P50 and the P90 houses. And what does the SodM think about when pack bite 80% of the capacity would be used for the P50 and 20% for the P90 homes? The reason for my question is that you can make more meters with the P90 homes, because one review there can possibly be used for multiple homes. Then contractors can get back to work. Mr. Chairman. Another question: how many municipal plans have been approved? Finally, Mr President. The CDA would also like to see short-term measurement of the recommendations of the agricultural table and rapid planning and consultation. I would ask the Minister to tell us more about this. On the typology approach, we would also like to have a further explanation for the next debate by the committee, because it really needs to be speeded up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u8	Would you stand still for a moment? I see Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius has an interruption for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u9	That's what I want, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u10	Mrs. Mulder talked so fast, I had to switch. Then I thought: let her say everything within her speaking time, then I can ask my question. If I'm right, she said somewhere at the beginning of her speech text that she was sorry that the risk analysis of recently more homes came out. Did I hear that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u11	If more homes come out that you need to inspect when we already have a bottleneck, perhaps not so much in the recordings, but in the assessment capacity and then in the capacity to actually strengthen, then the problem will by definition get a little bigger. Even though it may be a little safer, you still have a big problem, because people are waiting and are in uncertainty. We don't want any of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u12	Now I hear what I would have liked to hear: it is now coming out of the analysis that it is really getting safer. SodM indicates that and says: it becomes safer because we reduce gas extraction. There will also be more houses to be judged, from a kind of coulance of the cabinet, so that people are reassured. I mean, it's good news, isn't it? It's gonna be safer if we cut off gas extraction. That's what's at the heart of it. Anyone with worries can of course just go somewhere with their questions. I fully share what Mrs Mulder says, namely that we need to ensure that there are no bottlenecks and that everyone can be helped afterwards, but I would like to stress here together with Mrs Mulder that it will therefore be safer. That was why we all started this: we want to make it safer for the Groningers. And I can do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u13	At the same time, if we have more homes to inspect and if people don't believe in the model behind it, we still have a big problem. That's the concern I have. So anything we can put acceleration into... Imagine: there will be houses, but if you check with each other, inspection shows that they are unexpectedly less good than expected, because the model may not have predicted it correctly yet. If so, you must be able to act quickly. If you're up to 1,000 homes a year, you'll be done in 15 years. There's the risk I see. Of course, I hope that the actual inspections and the like will show that the problems are not as big as they might seem right now, but if you have been in a home for years without knowing what you're up to, it's just extremely difficult. That's why I want more clarity for these people. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u14	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Van der Lee on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me read my motion first. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the acceleration of the reinforcement operation would be useful in introducing as much space as possible for residents who so wish to determine, after the recording and assessment has taken place, how and by whom the implementation of the reinforcement of their building will be carried out in practice;]] [[calls on the government to leave as much room as possible for residents to take matters into their own hands when it comes to the implementation phase of the reinforcement operation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van der Lee. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-597]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u16	For ease of reference, I would like to add my voice to Mr Mulder's questions on the new SodM opinion. I would like to thank the Minister for the interim response to a number of documents. I was particularly pleased with his response to my question about the report of the University of Groningen on the impact of the earthquakes on children. That was a result of the motion I tabled earlier in respect of item No. 516. There was also a motion by Mr Wassenberg in that direction (33529, No. 512). Glad that the Minister with the region and the Minister of the United States of America is going to see how these recommendations can be taken up. I hope he keeps us informed. We have also received a number of reports. On one point, I would like to ask the Minister for reflection. That is the report of the independent counsellor, who, after all, points to rather poignant situations. This is not new, but I would ask the Minister to let his light shine again. Does he see any indications here that, in one of the three operations under way, it might be possible to strengthen, deal with damages and take further steps in the future? I hope so, but he will come back to that. The Minister is also looking creatively for possibilities for the builder's variant in the reinforcement. Apparently, there's another motion on that. In my memory, the Minister would send us another letter about this. I await the motion of my fellow Members as well. That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u17	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Heft programme in its own hands, now known as the Own Initiative, does not seem to follow up;]] [[Whereas self-direction is important for people to regain control of their situation;]] [[calls on the Government to identify how the existing programme or elements of the Own Initiative can be embedded in the preferred approach to strengthening, and to inform the Court of Justice of this for the next general consultation on Mining/Groningen on 22 May 2019,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Sienot and Mr Agnes Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-598]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u19	Mr. Chairman. My second motion is a little longer. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that people in Groningen are not only affected by damage to their homes and buildings, but also by intangible damage;]] [[Whereas both the University of Groningen and the GGD have identified in Groningen the extent of the intangible damage, which is significant;]] [[Whereas the Groningen National Programme provides funds for the expansion of neighbourhood teams, mental care and psychological support;]] [[Whereas, pending the appeal, the extent to which the NAM can be called upon to compensate for intangible damage remains unclear;]] [[Notes that it is undesirable to charge the full costs of the Groningen National Programme, as mapped out by the GGD;]] [[Calls on the Government to consult municipalities, GGD, health care providers and health insurers to ensure easy access to mental health care;]] [[invites the Government also to consult with the above parties on the financial aspects and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Sienot, Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Nijboer, Mr Beckerman and Mr Van der Lee.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-599]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u20	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u21	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Sienot on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is nice to see that the SP found inspiration at the D66 Congress. We'd like to be under that motion. We are very curious about ways of ensuring that damage recovery is accelerated. In addition to the SP motion, we have a further specification. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that more than 17,500 claims are open to the Temporary Committee on Mining Damage Groningen;]] [[Whereas the processing of these claims will continue for years at the current rate;]] [[Whereas the causality question for all damage reported in and around the Groningenveld can be waived for the 6,000 notifications for which there is a dossier;]] [[calls on the Government to provide for more acceleration measures in the handling of claims files at the Temporary Committee on Mining Damage Groningen, with the possibility of automatic compensation of existing damages, without the need to answer the question of causality,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sienot and Mr Beckerman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-600]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u23	Mr. Chairman, I'm coming to my next motion. It's about geothermals. We believe that this is very important, and we also want to speed it up. The problem is at another point. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas legal treatment periods apply for the granting of testing and extraction permits for geothermal energy projects;]] [[noting that the sector indicates that these deadlines are not always met;]] [[calls on the Government to accelerate the process of licensing geothermal projects, for example by increasing capacity,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sienot, Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Van der Lee and Mr Moorlag. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-601]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u25	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Nijboer on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We often talk about the future, but there are also many people who have been in procedures and misery for years. I would also like to draw attention to this today. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas people who lived outside the contours on the basis of superficial and current insights have often been wrongly sent into the forest by Witteveen+Bos;]] [[Whereas these people have often been in uncertainty about the recognition of the damage and what is going to happen to their homes for years;]] [[invites the Cabinet to give the TCMG the opportunity to obtain a re-evaluation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Nijboer, Mr Van der Lee and Mr Beckerman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-602]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u27	Mr. Chairman. I have co-signed several motions by Mrs Beckerman, but I would like to highlight one, namely those in part No. 594. It concerns people who have been in uncertainty about their damage for years and years. There must be a line on this one. You can call it a general pardon, you can describe it as starting with a clean slate. I appeal to the Minister to comply with that. I've done that before, by the way. It seems to me to be the only way to deal properly with damage cases in the future. There's a huge pile of files, but it's not just files. There's a lot of shit behind it. That is something that needs to be made clear once and for all. I think that's a good idea. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u28	Thank you. I'm suspending until seven minutes past seven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u29	The next item is the reply by the Minister for Mining and Groningen. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u30	Mr. Chairman. I'll deal with the questions first and then with the motions. The first question was from Mrs Mulder. She asked me how to show the review that's being done. Well, it's clear I'm not gonna throw my own sauce over that. I'm just sticking to the lyrics of SodM. It's gonna be much safer. At SodM it is estimated that the number of P50 houses is about half. And we also see that there are a lot more precise descriptions of houses. So the HRA model was not affected, but the basic data. That was also planned, and that is what the directors agreed with each other on 2 July last year. And you can see that huge progress has been made there. As far as I am concerned, therefore, it should also create confidence that we are also acting on this issue. Once it turns out that based on the latest figures houses are potentially risky, they will still be placed on the inspection list. And we also agreed at that time that, on the other hand, houses will never be removed from the inspection list. So if your home to the latest insights wouldn't be risky anymore, it'll still be considered just in case. So no houses disappear from the recording list, but there will be houses as soon as the new information asks for it. I think that's the only way it can be done. Every time you draw the conclusion that there would be a risk, you put the house in a recording. We must also be transparent in it and show the figures. And the municipalities will be able to incorporate that in their plans every year. I do say that every year the changes are likely to get smaller, because that database is, of course, getting better and better. That's my analysis of it. Mrs Mulder's second question was about assessment capacity. I think it's very important. I made an appointment about that. With all the directors, we have expressed an ambition to increase the assessment capacity to as much as 4,000 per year. And frankly, we also want to reduce the lead time. So this is what we all really want at the same time. You can see we have to search the entire chain for that. Building contractors have a part to play in that. I also think that the public procurement procedure should be different. That's being worked on right now. But the municipalities also have a role to play in this. There are people who are now focusing specifically on speeding up licensing, for example, with the municipalities. Those are all things that can shorten the lead time. And at the same time, we're trying to increase capacity. This means that we can get more people in turn, but that there is less time to wait between steps. All parties in the chain have a role in this, and also contractors. Purely the safety judgment is a very special responsibility. That really is some kind of expert responsibility. For assessing damage, you need to understand masonry and specie, but for assessing safety you really need to know something about constructions, statics, seismicity. So that's another profession. The assessment of safety therefore remains a highly nationalised responsibility. It's done by independent experts, and I shouldn't be able to influence that. But in all the other parts of the chain, it has to be faster. And by the way, we will also include the typology approach in the assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u31	There's been an interruption by Mrs. Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u32	I also ask this because I'm getting signals from Groningen that it might be possible to do otherwise. Is the Minister at least prepared to discuss this with the contractors?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u33	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u34	What if they come up with things that we all just didn't think about? Then we should not say, looking back three years from now, that this was also the time to discuss this. Hence the question to the Minister whether he is prepared to ask those contractors explicitly for that assessment capacity. Do they see other possibilities and opportunities? And of course, we're not gonna take the safety off our residents. But I like to hear it back when there are other ways. And I like to hear what the hooks and eyes are about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u35	Yes. I think it's good to just be open to all the ideas. In this context, the Minister of State also speaks with the contractors themselves, and the CEOs of adoption organisations, to see what other ideas there are. And if anything comes up in the field of assessments, we'll definitely take it with us. The typology approach, which Mrs Mulder has started a number of times, is also very important. That means that you have sometimes assessed 100 houses in one go. Then, of course, you can make a lot of meters and that makes a lot of difference, at least in some neighbourhoods.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u36	In addition, Mrs. Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u37	I'm not quite done asking her questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u38	Maybe the minister just got there to answer that, so I'll wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u39	Oh, excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u40	Yeah, I'm still in the middle of the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u41	I was going too fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u42	Mrs Mulder and I have a tradition: she speaks faster than I can write and I try to answer all her questions anyway. She also asks whether the municipal plans contain both the P50 and P90 homes. We have expressly decided with each other that we do the most risky houses first, but also not black and white. It can be useful to include certain quantities, picks of P90 houses. In fact, it also happens that homes that belong neither to P50 nor to P90 should also be taken away because you think: 'Oh, they look a lot like that; how can they not be on that list?' That happens, but it's up to SodM, the security supervisor, to assess how much that might be. Because it remains at the forefront: the biggest risk first, not black and white, but for evaluation to an authority. That shouldn't be me, that shouldn't be the local drivers, but that should be SodM. That's what we have for that. What mix of satisfaction do we have to draw from the answer to Mrs Mulder's next question? The plans of approach of the municipalities have all been approved for the time being, all of them, but they are still being incorporated into one big plan. In consultation between the National Coordinator Groningen and the SodM, one more overall assessment of these plans is given. That will then be the final assessment. This includes whether there are not too many risky homes at the front of the route. It's not that I'm expecting that, but I'm leaving the whole thing to SodM to judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u43	Then Mrs Mulder comes forward again for a supplement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u44	Mr President, thank you very much, because I think the Minister is now moving on to another spokesman. That's why I'm thinking: I'm gonna run to the microphone. Has the Centre Secure Living also been commissioned to work not only with the P50 houses but also with the P90 houses? Does the Minister know that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u45	The formal assignment applies to the P50 houses and their so-called upgrade, i.e. the houses that were originally not included but which were added by the database improvement. But it has already been agreed that certain quantities of P90 houses can be included and even a certain amount of what we call 'grey houses' in the jargon. Those are houses that are logical to take but are not considered risky in themselves. That's what's gonna happen. We have enough assignments for at least a year. Then we'll order for subsequent instalments again. So there's no bottleneck there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u46	So I understand that the Centre for Safe Living has the assignment for the P50 and everything the Minister just described, but that it can also work with the P90. I hear different stories about that too, so I'll check it out to be very precise. It shouldn't be sticking. It shouldn't be that you can't get off to a good start because you have a part P50 and a few P90 and a few gray ones, where nothing is arranged for grey and P90.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u47	The extent to which P90 and gray can be carried is with SodM, but as soon as that is approved, there is agreement that this is part of the mission, albeit that it is not formalized yet, but that is just going to happen. There must be no obstruction in that. I confirm that Mrs Mulder does not have to worry about this. We're still working on increasing capacity. Passing times are all things that we are working hard on, but for the implementation of the plans as they will be approved, we will have room for manoeuvre in the coming year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u48	Thank you. I wanted to stick to this interruption. Then the Minister can go through with the answer, otherwise we will run out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u49	Mr Van der Lee asks me to reflect on the findings of the Independent Counsellor. For both damage and reinforcement it can be summarized as follows. The two things that are most important in the area at the moment are speed and clarity. The great frustrations in the area, but also other things that have been going on in recent times, ultimately all have to do with lack of speed. We told each other something at first, which, based on the findings from behind the desk, made sense. Looking back, I had those documents in my hands, too. We thought we were doing 5,000 houses a year, but it was going to be 200. That difference is so great that we have kept a lot of people waiting for a very long time. Not only did that result in waiting time, but also uncertainty about when then. I think the independent counsel is gonna hit the nail on the head with that. All our efforts should focus on reducing the lead time and increasing capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u50	However, I would like to take this opportunity to ask a question which I would have liked to ask earlier and which I would have liked to answer, but which I had not yet asked. If the Minister also looks at the progress report of the TCMG, does he think that the process of damages handling is already sufficiently in order?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u51	Enough? No. The damage recordings form the bottleneck in the process. From 40 a week around last summer, we're now at 400 a week. But I have clearly stated, not only to the TCMG but also to this Chamber, that I see all kinds of possibilities, and that also the TCMG sees all kinds of possibilities, to increase that number even further. The builder's variant is an example of that. It's gonna be fine, and it could just add 50 or maybe more a week. Then there are other possibilities, such as further capacity building. No, we're just not there yet. In addition, we need to see the translation of the larger volumes into the reviews. There are three months in between for all kinds of good reasons, but we still have to see that. So we have to keep a permanent eye on that. I certainly won't say we're already here. Progress is clear, but that is not yet the final product.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u52	When the Minister is ready, I ask him to move on to the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u53	Then I'll get to the motions. The motion at No. 594 requesting a general's pardon. I see the attractive political convergence in this Chamber between two parties. I am going to say something about that which relates at the same time to the motion on item No. 600. We are aware that in Groningen we have to deal with evidence differently than elsewhere, with the determination of what is going on. Then we do not by letting go of causality or the causality concept. That's what we do by suspecting evidence. So in other words, causality is about the relationship between the cause and the damage. That suspicion of evidence is about the heaviness of the burden of proof for those who have damage. According to the Civil Code, you can't let go of causality. That would mean that every crack in every house or dent in every car can be claimed by a private party, because in the end the NAM will pay for it all. But you can enter the evidence suspicions. This means that the burden of proof is less heavy on what is still a bit the underlying party, namely the individual with damage. So one is not a light version of the other. It's really something else. Let go of the causality is not, therefore, the main issue is not; that is indeed legally incorrect. But the presumption of evidence is a way to make this easier. In order to make this evidence even in the practice of the TCMG easy to handle, experts have recently devised a method. It's being implemented now, which means you can handle damage much faster. This means that more is being worked along fist-line cases. That doesn't mean you can reject someone on the basis of a rule of thumb. But you can let someone through quickly on the basis of a faster trade-off. That's the idea, so that's gonna speed it up. We do not yet see that speed in those assessments, but we do expect that to become visible in some time. So that's the way to deal with this. I should therefore like to refer to the motion for a resolution, which is part of the motion for a resolution. So 594 not recommended, but in this form also those in part No. 600.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u54	The motions on the documents Nos. 594 and 600 are not recommended. There's been an interruption by Mrs. Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u55	Of course, I would have expected the motion to be discouraged, but it always comes as a blow, because there are 16,000, perhaps 17,000 Groningers, and there are more waiting for compensation. It's still a huge reservoir. For this, the Minister is constantly being turned on by everyone over and over again. I hear the Minister say that we do not yet have any way of promoting this speed. Why shouldn't this be possible? The Minister says it is not legally possible, but there has also been a general pardon. The NAM did it himself. I didn't like it, but it's happened before. Was that legally impossible? I'm referring here to the voucher system.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u56	It is possible for any private party to pay damages, or other things. But we're in a legal system here, and that's where the Civil Code plays a role. I simply do not have the means to remove the causality from the system. What I can do is ease the burden of proof with the person claiming the damage. Nor is it the case that we do not see any possibility of accelerating this. In fact, we now have a factor of ten and we have a further acceleration ahead. Things that are legally impossible, I can't do, but the things we can do, we do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u57	Mrs. Beckerman, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u58	I am far from satisfied with this answer, because the contractor variant, where small damages can directly be done by a contractor and the damage can be compensated, does not carry out an extensive causality study, if I am right. So I really cannot understand why this motion is not possible and why so many Groningers would have to wait so long, since the Minister himself indicates that he is not yet able to speed up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u59	I can't do what I can't. We're doing everything we can to increase capacity, but if there are legal constraints, I can't get over it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u60	My name is under the motion. That's why I feel invited to respond. For us, but I think this applies to everyone, it is very important that we accelerate this operation, based on confidence in Groningers, but also on working solutions. I hear the Minister saying that this cannot work because of legal reasons. There will then be a comparison with, for example, a scratch in your car, where all damage could be recovered at once. But the whole idea is, of course, that you act on trust. The idea is that you know something went wrong and that's why you're putting a line on it. You do that by no longer looking at the question of causality. Would the Minister explain briefly and specifically how it is not possible to do so? That is not entirely clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u61	I think it's a good question. I'm often addressed to the question of why I can't do this. I think we should note that I have failed so far in the brief explanation. I have tried that so far, and Mr Sienot reminds me that I have not succeeded. I'm suggesting maybe we change our direction. Maybe I could do it thoroughly, but I'd like to do it in writing. Could I assure Mr Sienot that, with all the evidence and arguments of legal experts around me, I am in writing as to why this cannot be done? At the same time, I insist that we do other things, because we have to do that gear. But then I'll put it on paper why we just don't see an opportunity for this and why it's another thing completely different from the other. Using the evidence suspicions is really something quite different than removing the causality from the system.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u62	The Minister and I, we find each other speeding up. It is about speeding up and working solutions. I just want to understand that very much, and that has not yet been achieved; the Minister says that very well. We will then get one of them in a letter, but I would also like to ask the Minister what is a working formula. Because then he also says: we have already accelerated it by a factor of ten and I have always learned that more comes from there. So what can we do to speed it up? And why can't we do this? I would really like to see those two questions answered in writing, preferably before the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u63	Is that gonna work before the votes? The first part of the question doesn't work. The second part may not be entirely unknown to Mr Sienot, but it would be possible for the votes to be taken. But that's not quite the jumping point. Let me just put that on paper. Perhaps the vote on this motion can be postponed in one way or another until Mr Sienot has been able to convince himself whether he agrees with the legal reasoning or disagrees with it. I'll put it on paper. I'll leave it to the Chamber when she votes on what. But I'm going to give you a more thorough answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u64	Thank you. Mr Sienot nods, so he agrees. Then Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u65	I would ask the Minister to go into one point, possibly in the letter. I'm not quite clear about the cases we're talking about right now. With the builder's variant, we have created a certain space where a test may take place afterwards and on a sample basis, but this does not take into account the presumption of evidence. At least that's how I interpret it. Does this mean that the Minister cannot, in a legal sense, do so where a trial has already been initiated and is already being looked at, which means that he cannot come back to it? Or are they really two very different types we're talking about? I'm not a lawyer; I just don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u66	It's not like we started the cases one way and then we can't go back. It is simply not possible, as a matter of principle, to abandon the concept of 'causality' at all. This also applies to other variants. Shall I include this in the letter?This was also a question of how, for example, the builder variant differs from other variants and why this variant can?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u67	I'm fine with that. Following on from Mr Sienot's last question, the question is to what extent we can make the presumption of evidence play as little as possible. That's a more indirect way of getting rid of the whole causality discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u68	I would recommend to Mr Van der Lee that he chooses the words to ensure that the presumption of evidence plays as much as possible, because then the burden of proof will be lightened the most. I will explain that as well, but then I will come back to the story of the experts who have thought about a way to apply the evidence assumption in an even more automated way and even more cases quickly through the system and to operate people faster. I'll process that in the play.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u69	I'm getting the impression that I'm in court instead of in the Lower House. I don't really need a letter. I've had endless letters. We have also discussed the general's pardon endlessly. My question is simply: do we not want the Minister to start with a clean slate in those cases or can it not legally? What's the deal with that? I don't need a letter for that. I can just get a simple answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u70	The simple answer is that it can't be legal. In those cases where there has been no withdrawal and therefore there is no amount, it is virtually impossible. It is quite clear that I would like to speed things up, both in the event of damage and in the case of reinforcement. If you stand here in this position behind this table, then you want nothing more than speed with regard to Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u71	But all these procedural and legal objections stand in the way. The point that a considerable part of the Chamber always wants to make is that people have not made claims in bad faith. Those claims are stacked up and up to 13,000, 16,000. There's no other way than for the Minister to say: we're just gonna pay them back; they're just gonna get what they're getting. Maybe some people get too much, but at least the Minister has solved it. Then the Minister can get to work on the upcoming requests. That's what the Chamber wants. I hear procedural and legal arguments, but those are not human arguments. I don't think that's the right way to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u72	We all want the same thing, but I can't get rid of legal impropriety. There may also be practical unopportunities. For example, I cannot spend an amount that is unknown. I will write a letter about it, because I think we are living in a country where there are really no legal possibilities. Sometimes that's nasty, but in the end that's what we're dealing with.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u73	I suggest that the Minister continue with the appreciation of the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u74	I think this is a good proposal. I'm going to the motion in part no. 595. It's about insurance. There we have the nasty case that an entrepreneur can be held liable for something that is caused by seismicity and for which he is not actually responsible, but is liable. To ensure that entrepreneurs can never be held liable is unfortunately not the legal route here, but there are a few things that are clear. The liability is a chain. It must therefore be the case that if an entrepreneur is held liable for this, he can simply be insured if the liability remains with him. The big concern was whether or not it was. I am still investigating that, but we will have to ensure that there is insurance for entrepreneurs at all times. But if the ultimate main cause is indeed at NAM, then the NAM must pay it and not the insurance or the entrepreneur himself. I'll come back to that for the AO of May 22nd. They're working on it. I just got off the phone with the people who are working on it. Both about the problem and about the possible solutions I try to say more for the AO of 22 May. It's a little complicated to guarantee that the answer will be complete if you don't know exactly what the answer is yet, but I'll definitely get back to you for the 22nd.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u75	And that's the advice on the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u76	I must therefore reject this text with this operative part.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u77	That makes the motion in part no. Fifty-five hundred and ninety-five.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u78	But that's a technical "dissuade." In terms of intentions, I am not far away from Mrs Beckerman, but the way is different. Then the motion to part No. 596 on capacity. I can of course inform the Chamber in May 2019 about all kinds of things, but then we haven't arranged everything in the operative part. I have agreed with the region that we will take the acceleration measures together, that this will not be done unilaterally by the NCG, but in consultation with the region. We've made clear agreements about this whole process. That came out in the fourth quarter. Nor can I say whether it should ultimately be implemented in binding agreements, as stated in the operative part, or in any other way. That's why I must advise against this motion. I also declare myself a big fan of the acceleration measures. So is Mrs Beckerman. That's how she let me know in the AA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u79	I have a bit of a feeling that the Minister is looking for ways to discourage this motion, while at the same time saying: we all agree and we are all on the same track. If I understand correctly, this is the second indent in the operative part, about making binding agreements, especially with local contractors, and the motion is therefore not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u80	And May 2019 is not a time when I finished the whole thing. The region and I are working together to have a completed approach in the fourth quarter of this year that we can both agree with.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u81	But this would be the year of implementation. This would be the year in which the white vans start driving. And now we hear: in the fourth quarter I can say something about a plan that we then have to maybe get to work sometime. In any case, I would like to be clear in May. Then it is a year since the Minister unilaterally drew a line from the previous strengthening. And that piece on binding agreements is a response to the Minister's remark that foreign contractors are being talked to, while local contractors are now in difficulty. I think it is essential to involve local contractors to ensure that, when the year of implementation comes, we will be able to get to work this year. I really don't get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u82	It's very clear. May 2019 I don't live up to it. I do that because I have agreements with the region. I am not going to roll that one-sidedly over the region. I'm not gonna do that because we do this together as governments. I'm not gonna break those appointments here for this motion. If there is a realistic language in it and more room for what kind of agreements are made with whom, then this motion can get judgment Chamber, because I agree with the idea that capacity should be raised. However, if that is an unrealistic appeal that would prevent me from meeting my commitments with the region, I must, unfortunately, discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u83	I suggest that the Minister continue with the answer. Then we'll go to the motion in part no. 597.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u84	Yeah, the motion to part No. 597.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u85	Unless Mr Van der Lee has something else to say. Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u86	I'm a little surprised anyway, because I get the feeling that we're not getting the real plan of action until the end of 2019.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u87	No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u88	That's not what you meant to say, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u89	No, definitely not. We have had the debate on storage capacity before. On the subject of capacity, we have said that there is a capacity of about 4,000 per year at the recordings, that this year we have a capacity of about 1,000 in the assessment and that next year we would be above 2,000 in the increase in staff. On top of that, we're still looking for ways to speed it up. One part of this is the acceleration approach, which still has to lift it above 2,000, preferably up to 4,000 per year. That is what we need this acceleration approach for. It is also part of the advice of the Mining Council, but it is not that we cannot start now because we do not have this approach. It's started. It's being recorded. Many houses of the P50 are already being assessed, because they have been in the picture before. So it's not like we're waiting for anything. We see this as one of the ways to accelerate it further.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u90	Thank you for that, but I have one more question. You indicate that May is too fast, but until the end of 2019 is still quite a lot of time. Can you give us a little more explanation as to why you need so much time and why, for example, it should not be possible after the summer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u91	The specialists are now working for all kinds of typologies houses to make that acceleration approach. The acceleration approach isn't just about the recording. Especially in the assessment and also in construction, this means that you work more standard, that you treat equal houses equally and that you don't have to do a whole calculation but have a sort of catalog per type of house. That is something that also requires confidence in the region, as the Mining Council opinion may say, but we are used to having a conversation with the region, stakeholders and civil society organisations, because of course they also need to understand what is going to happen. We cannot unilaterally instruct the NCG to implement something in a region from The Hague. That's not how it works out there. I need time for that. The region has also asked for time to do so, and I think that is reasonable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u92	Thank you. I suggest you continue with the appreciation of the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u93	Yes. The motion in part No. 597 is about leaving as much space as possible for residents. I agree with every word in the wording. The motion in part No. 597 gets judgment, Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u94	The motion in part No. 597: Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u95	The motion in part No. 598 is about own initiative. The government is requested to inform the Chamber before the AO on 22 May. That motion, too, will be judged by Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u96	The motion in part No. 598: Judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u97	Then we have the motion in part no. 599 by Mrs Dik-Faber on health care. Whatever the motion says, I'll leave it on the House's behalf, but there are two requests to the government. I'm gonna leave that one, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u98	The motion in part No. 599: Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u99	The region is going to look at this itself. For the sake of clarity, I would like to say two more things. It is a fact that the NAM must pay for which the NAM is liable. There's still some kind of appeal going on. It'll have to wait and see. Then of course you have to look at what is storyable and what is not, but it is clear that where it can be told on the NAM, that must also be done. On top of that, however, we have said in both the coalition agreement and, as a result, in the Groningen National Programme, that psychological support for earthquake problems can also be financed from that national programme where it is not storyable, has a more generic character and so on. So it's probably en-and, where of course we end up again where I started: where it's storyable on the NAM, so should we. So we'll get back to this. The motion in part No. I've already had 600. The motion in part No. 601, by Mr Sienot and others, on speeding up the licensing of geothermal energy projects. I'll leave that to the Court's judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u100	The motion in part No. 601: Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u101	As regards Mr Nijboer's motion on item No. 602 the following. I really want to focus on the cases that are there. I do not think it is possible to re-evaluate cases that have already been carried out. It is also not that there was a black-and-whitening of the contours at the time, not even by the NAM at the time. Seismicity has also been looked at. And there are also a lot of damages paid to people outside those contours. So as black and white as it seemed, it's not over. But I just don't see this as executable. I have to discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u102	It was still under the predecessor of this minister, but there were nine contour municipalities and there were municipalities outside the contours, and in the latter there was no damage. There was then another investigation of Witteveen+Bos, which was leaked from all sides. Mrs Mulder remembers that too. There was a lot of criticism at the time. Later on, the Minister was right to look at the seismicity and I do not know what, but those people outside the contours, at that time in the procedure, had a ruling on the basis of reports that were not right. That really is a big problem for some people. It may not have been on a huge scale, but it has been a huge problem for those people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u103	I think that's imaginable. That's true. In the time I was there, I made sure that in a lot of old cases from outside the contours, damage was paid out. They were compensated for the damage. But let me be very practical. Also in the time we made the damage protocol that was in February last year I had to do a number of things that I didn't necessarily find ideal or sympathetic, for example solving old damages by the NAM. That really wasn't my hobby. That wasn't my preference at all. But sometimes emergency law breaks. It's one of those mountains we need to get rid of. I think this is just unfeasible. I don't see this happening. I can well imagine that there are cases where people say that in retrospect I should have been treated differently. But I just don't see the chance to do this. We need to get to the exit. We have to make sure that this huge mountain of damage, which is growing ever harder now, is eliminated. It is a factor of ten compared to when we started. We simply cannot have this. I don't see the possibilities for this. I'm very honest with you about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u104	Mr Nijboer briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u105	First there was a legal thing. Now there are practical objections. But there are just people who were mistreated because of unjustified contours at the time, on the basis of a report that is not right, and who are just suffering from damage. Then it is not enough for the Minister to say: I do not think it is feasible and it stops. That is not an answer to people who have suffered damage and cannot do anything about it, who have been in trouble for years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u106	We have had this discussion before, namely in the damage protocol. At the same time, I said that some things are not feasible. This is one of them. I find it disappointing that in the world we imagine, sometimes you would want other things than the things that could be in the world we are in. Some things can't be done. That could be practical. That could be legal. That's disappointing for everyone. But I've stopped saying things that maybe can, or to leave things in doubt if I really don't think I can. This is from the last category. We're not gonna make this happen; this isn't gonna work. That also went over the table at the time of the damage protocol. At that time I had quite another wish, a wish which probably corresponds to what Mr Nijboer has in mind. But that's not feasible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u107	Thank you. Mrs. Mulder, at this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u108	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I very much recognise what Mr Nijboer is putting forward here. And then I got all riled up by these weird contours, and then A-, B-, and C-damages. It didn't seem like anything. I can also imagine the dilemma facing the Minister. But I'm still looking. How can we get that group in the picture? I'm also looking at colleague Van der Lee. We still have extensive research from the Lower House. Maybe we can use that research to get a picture of how it's happened to these people. Perhaps they can also report to the investigation that is taking place in the end. We've already given certain things to that. And along the way, maybe there'll be more to it. I can imagine. And at a later point, we can still take a look. For if there is really wrong done to these people, then it continues to haunt us for years. We shouldn't want that with each other like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u109	This was not a question for me, but a proposal made by Mrs Mulder to my colleagues in the Chamber, and I have heard that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u110	Briefly, Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u111	Well, then I'd like to ask you a question. I understand the Minister's argument in practical terms, given the enormous reservoir there is. But we're all working to get rid of that reservoir. That is preferably the case as soon as possible, but it will be gone once. We agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u112	Yeah, I think so, too. A certain working stock will always be there, but the reservoir will be gone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u113	Then, at least in theory and in practice, there is capacity to look at these cases. The question is: does the Minister exclude any hope for the future or is there a possibility of a discussion at the time when the implementation organisation could handle looking at this again?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u114	I don't want to give hope without some ground. I don't want to give people who are watching and thinking "oh, my case is being reopened," that hope. But I never rule out that it might ever be possible, but that depends on the way it's archived, the way it's recorded and the way you should track down those people. It is also about what the law says. That's also something I sometimes have to talk to other people than myself about. I can't at all judge if it's ever possible, but I don't want to give that hope. It is not a matter for the time being either, because we are still very busy dealing with the current cases throughout the calendar year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u115	Mr. Van der Lee again? Short, supplemental.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u116	Then let me end positively: I taste some room in this and it is up to us as a Chamber to look for a way to get that door open a little further.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u117	Mrs. Beckerman still? Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u118	I'm afraid it'll be a repeat of moves, but still. I do hear the Minister admit that there are people who have rightly reported damage and who have wrongly never received money.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u119	I cannot say for certain, but it is very reasonable that there have also been cases of people who were actually entitled to something according to today's views and did not get it. Mistakes will also be made in these systems. In the past, the causer of the damage was also the assessor of the damage. That was a situation that was at least very intricate. There are undoubtedly things that have happened that we would no longer approve by today's standards. I really can't rule that out. In fact, it's a big deal. But I can't fix everything from the past. I can't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u120	In addition, briefly, Mrs. Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u121	So it's reason enough, and it's hard to believe that people have wrongly denied their rights. I'm looking for a way in which the minister can still move in order for justice to prevail. Since you are always referring to the region, would you like to talk to the region about whether they can make justice possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u122	It is not the region that is now in charge of dealing with damage. I could ask anyone, but it's a national responsibility now, so you should ask the TCMG. Then you should also provide it with the old database if it still exists; I don't even know. This is not something the region should be entrusted with. We should not look at that in the region either. That's not fair. He can't do anything with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u123	Locking up?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u124	I've run out of motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u125	That's what I suspected, but maybe there was something else to add. That is not the case. In doing so, I note that we have come to the end of the discussions on the mining industry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-25.u126	I shall suspend for a few moments so that we can proceed with the thirty-member debate on the acquisition of AkzoNobel's chemical industry.
