ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the initiators in section K and wish them a pleasant first term. I would also like to welcome the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. She is present at the examination of this bill as an advisor to the Chamber. Today, as has been said, the first term of office is on the agenda. The response will be discussed at a later date, in consultation with the initiators.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-3.u2	I am now the first speaker to give the floor to Mr Smeulders, who will speak on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. It is a good practice in this Chamber to compliment the initiators and their supporters, who are not present, and who are probably elsewhere, on this initiative law. I am happy to do so, although I do not think it is going to change our voting behaviour or perhaps that of a large other part of the Chamber. In the treatment of the Temporary Law on anti-terrorism governance measures, the PVV also suggested earlier to create a form of administrative detention. That amendment was only supported by the Bones/Van Klaveren Group. It is brave that the PVV is now putting forward an initiative proposal, but we regret that they have limited themselves to a streamlined response. I shall mention a number of fundamental comments made by the Council of State. My group therefore hopes that the initiators will answer these questions in their response to this debate. In short, what is this bill about? The aim of the bill is to protect national security. To this end, it introduces a freedom-absorber measure for up to six months, or as much shorter as possible. Then extension with each six months is unlimited. The procedure is simple: the AIVD finds that a person can be associated with, or support, possible terrorist activities on the basis of his behaviour. According to the Minister of BZK, the AIVD proposes to impose the liberty-absorber measure. The Minister of Foreign Affairs decides on this. Appeals may be brought before the court of The Hague, which shall then examine only marginally whether the decision on a measure of liberty can reasonably be taken. Mr. Chairman. The Council of State considers that there is a plausible possibility that application of the measure will lead to detention of innocent persons who do not actually pose the intended threat to national security. The Council of State is therefore strongly opposed to this proposal. Freedom should be exercised only in exceptional circumstances and subject to legal guarantees. This initiative proposal is going through in a way that is not acceptable under the rule of law as we do in the Netherlands. There is no protection against arbitrary deprivation of liberty, there is a very broad criterion of protection of national security without limitation in time, and defence against the imposed measure is not possible or hardly possible because of the confidential nature of the AIVD information. Furthermore, the court is not competent to fully assess the removal of liberty on the basis of its legality. Mr. Chairman. The Council of State is taking an appropriate approach to this initiative proposal. This proposal goes far beyond the limits of what is acceptable under the rule of law. On legal and practical grounds, this bill is undesirable. You would expect this proposal to be submitted in countries such as China or Russia, but not in the Netherlands. We therefore sincerely regret that the PVV has missed the opportunity to hold a serious discussion on the dilemma outlined above, which we do see, between protection against terrorism and protection against uncontrollable state intervention. No one serious attempt is being made to convince the Chamber of Use and Necessity. In doing so, this initiative proposal confines itself to a rather pointless exercise, the outcome of which is well known. However, I look forward to the response of the initiators.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you very much. I shall now give the floor to Mr Kops. He speaks for the PVV. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-3.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Perhaps you can remember this article in the Welt am Sonntag of 28 April last. It is an overview of all Islamic attacks since 9/11. There are more than 31,000 attacks and more than 146,000 victims. It's a deadly list. He is too shocking for words and it is also too much to list here. That's why I'm just mentioning a few. Paris, November 13, 2015, Bataclan. During a concert armed men enter and start shooting wild around themselves. 89 victims are among them. The same day and night more attacks take place in Paris, all of which are claimed by IS. The total number of deaths was 129. Manchester, 22 May 2017. A suicide bomber detonates a bomb between Manchester Arena and Victoria Station. The concert was sold out and was mainly attended by young people and families with children. That attack was also claimed by IS. There were 120 wounded and 22 dead. Then, closer to home, it was March 18, 2019. It was a pitch-black day. Gökmen Tanis started shooting around in Utrecht in a packed tram. Four people were killed in this terrible attack. Then we come to the most frustrating sentence, which appears every time after an attack in the media, namely: the unsub was known. That was so in Paris, in Manchester and in our own Utrecht. Known, but at large. Known, but capable of committing terrible attacks. Something's going wrong. There's something wrong and something's missing. After all, sufficient legal grounds are needed to get someone off the street, according to Minister Grapperhaus of Justice at the end of 2017 about loose jihadists. And precisely those legal grounds, to take those Syrian fighters off the streets and protect the country from them, are provided with this initiative bill. This proposal allows for administrative detention. This means temporarily imposing a measure of freedom of movement on those who, on the basis of their behaviour, may be associated with or support possible terrorist activities. It is therefore a preventive measure with the aim of protecting the country from them and preventing attacks. The potential danger may come from the extreme left or the extreme right, but it may also be jihadists and potential jihadists, as has been said. Mr. Chairman. According to the AIVD, the Netherlands has several hundred jihadists and several thousand sympathizers of the jihad. The AIVD indicates that those sympathizers can easily grow into jihadist. There can be no intervention in this process of growth, even though there is an important part of the threat to our national security. Hundreds of jihadists and thousands of sympathizers. They are shocking figures of people who are or could be a potential threat to our democracy, our rule of law and thus national security. Those numbers are so large and serious that it is impossible for the AIVD to follow them all permanently. To keep an eye on one person permanently, 20 FTEs are needed. So if the AIVD wants to keep track of 2,000 people on a permanent basis, 40,000 officials would be needed. Those officials are simply not here. The danger posed by loose jihadists and potential jihadists is all the more serious. Mr. Chairman. Let us not forget that the threat level in the Netherlands is still level 4 out of 5. That's the next-highest level of threat. The terrorist threat is therefore substantial and the chances of an attack are real. According to the AIVD, this means: Terrorists see the Netherlands as a target; Terrorists commit attacks in neighbouring countries; There may be evidence that terrorists are preparing an attack on the Netherlands. Thus the AIVD. For example, the NCTV even mentions the attack in Utrecht as a concrete example and a confirmation of this threat. Mr. Chairman. Should we wait now for another attack? No, of course not. The Netherlands deserves much better. The Netherlands deserves much more protection. It is offered by this initiative proposal by Mr De Graaf, Mr Fritsma and Mr Markuszower. You may not be surprised that the PVV is very pleased with this. However, a number of questions, first of all to the initiators. How is the proposal of the AIVD, which should ultimately lead to administrative detention, tested? I also ask the Minister, who will then have to decide on that proposal. How, for example, is it handled with generally confidential information from the AIVD? The PVV can assume that the Minister is also very happy with this bill? It contains precisely those missing legal resources that Minister Grapperhaus mentioned when he spoke of 'loose jihadists'. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The PVV Group is pleased that these initiators take our national security seriously. We welcome it and look forward very much to the response of the initiators and the minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-3.u6	This is another reason for the interruption of Mr Van Wijngaarden. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-3.u7	I had the speaker finish his story, for which I thank you. I have an enlightening question and then another question. You're talking about temporary possibilities. Do I understand correctly that the temporary measure can be extended indefinitely? How temporary is temporary? And did I understand correctly that you also intend to secure sympathizers? A well-known jihadist can of course already be detained. It is not entirely incomprehensible to point out the risk of sympathizers. Is that also the group that you are aiming for with this proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-3.u8	If you read the law correctly, you'll see it's a six-month term. Let us be clear: it is not really up to politics or this Chamber to decide that at the end of the day. It is the AIVD that signals a threat or a possible threat. He then makes a proposal. Then it is ultimately up to the Minister to decide. So that's not even up to us. Mr. Chairman. Let me repeat: it is up to the AIVD to determine the threat. As I said, this could indeed be jihadists or potential jihadists, with the aim of preventing attacks. But again, it is up to the AIVD and the Minister to make an assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-3.u9	There is a follow-up question from Mr Van Wijngaarden.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-3.u10	Actually, it's just my first question, because I didn't get an answer to that question. How temporary is temporary if it can be extended indefinitely? And are you or are you not trying to secure those sympathizers? That is what you call very clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-3.u11	I don't think I said that. The law says six months. That can indeed be extended. This idea of administrative detention is also common in Israel. There it is that the majority of the administrative prisoners are released after six months.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-3.u12	Mr Van Wijngaarden's final question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-3.u13	You indicate: we are actually creating a new basis with this proposal to secure people outside the courts. But does the PVV Group not agree with me that a foundation also needs a solid foundation in law, and is that not exactly what is missing from this proposal, given the criticism of the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-3.u14	Perhaps the VVD refers to criminal law. If there is reason to arrest someone in concrete terms because something has been committed, it is up to the police and then to the criminal court. This relates to administrative law. That means the AIVD is picking up something. The AIVD then makes a proposal to the Minister for Administrative Detention. The Minister then decides.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-3.u15	One of the foundations of a rule of law is a fair process. It has just been stated that the law states that a marginal test can be requested by the judge here in The Hague by the person who is administratively thrown into prison. Let me put it this way, because "detention" sounds so euphemistic again. On the basis of what information can that fair process be guaranteed?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-3.u16	I believe that at the end of my speech I also asked some questions about this to the initiators. I understand from the bill that the person in question can indeed go to court. It can then perform a marginal key. I have also asked, for example, how the judge can then judge this in relation to confidential information from the AIVD. These are all legitimate questions, of course. I assume that the initiators and perhaps also the minister will reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-3.u17	A follow-up question from Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-3.u18	That is a little too easy for me, because I hear Mr Kops making a warm plea for this law. This is certainly a critical point when it comes to protecting a fair trial. Someone is therefore thrown into prison on the basis of his behaviour and on the basis of information from the AIVD by the Minister, who decides to do so. Then the person says: I want to be able to defend myself, but I don't get any information, because that information may be state secret; so I don't know why I'm here at all. So how do we deal with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-3.u19	Those are indeed very good questions. First of all, the PVV is certainly in favour of this bill. It is primarily about protecting our national security; let us not forget that. The AIVD thus identifies a threat, which of course we must take seriously, and makes a proposal to the Minister. He then reacts to that. The Minister finally makes the decision. I said that its purpose is to prevent misery and attacks and to protect our national security. This means that the PVV is in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-3.u20	Mr Azarkan, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-3.u21	I think it would be a good thing if we could find a balance between the rights that exist within the democratic rule of law, which we have agreed with each other and which we have sworn faithfully to, and that security. If you stretch it very much and if you throw all 17 million Dutch people in jail, then you also solved the problem, but I don't think that's gonna work either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-3.u22	I think Mr Azarkan is making it a bit of a caricature. Of course, what he's saying isn't the point. I've spoken of hundreds of jihadists and thousands of sympathizers. I've explained it enough times. The point is that there's a threat, a potential threat, that comes from a person and that the AIVD signals that. The AIVD is certainly not able to track everyone permanently. The intention is, of course, to prevent misery and attacks. If this bill can help with this, and the PVV absolutely thinks so, then of course we are very much in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-3.u23	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-3.u24	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-3.u25	That was the conclusion of your contribution. Mr Van Dam has the floor. He speaks for the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-3.u26	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to join with the compliments that Mr van GroenLinks has expressed to the initiators to put time, effort and energy into a problem that is indeed social. The events of last Wednesday morning in Amsterdam have also led me on a different path, that perhaps we should think a little more often in situations that we do not now see as imaginable, but which appear to be real. In this respect, my group has also looked with great interest and goodwill at the legislative proposal before us. But we must be careful not to fight the rule of law by throwing it away. That is actually the dilemma: wanting to serve the rule of law by throwing it away. The opinion of my group at the moment is that this proposal does not pass the constitutional test, the rule of law, but I would like to use this input mainly to invite the PVV to make this more than a new score on the organ of anti-Islam. Let this be a contribution to solving a social problem. Mr. Chairman. We already have some form of administrative or administrative detention in our country. Since 2000, we have known the Administrative Detention Act. This law is not aimed at individuals but at groups and was created at the time because we organised the European Football Championship together with Belgium in 2000. That law has not or hardly been applied. It was applied once, I believe, and then it was torched off by the judge because it was not known at all to the person to whom it was applied, what was at issue. My question to the honourable authors is: can you respond to the lessons of the application of that law and have you also taken note of this proposal? Then there are some specific questions about this bill. The jumping point, I think, is that no criterion has actually been formulated in substance as to what someone must have done in order to experience the displeasure of administrative detention. With the best will in the world, that is really an invisible hurdle for our group. The Council of State has explicitly called for attention to be paid to this issue. I can't imagine other colleagues not doing that either. So I would really like to invite you to give more substance to that. That is what we really need to look seriously at this proposal. I think there's a lot of potential for this. But to actually give a kind of open ticket to, in this case, the AIVD, which is also a bit of a black box, which is the nature of that organization, then we get the situation that perhaps Mr Azarkan put forward what as a caricature basically has the possibility that everyone finally sits in our own Guantánamo Bay for six months until the time passes. And I don't think that's the country we want to live in. Another point which is important in law and which, of course, is also linked to the criteria, is the awareness and predictability of this rule. How can citizens know when they will get close to the scope of administrative detention? My personal experience with terrorism matters is that if you go after detectives, you can get into a very wide circle of people that is always known that they, let alone, did not go to the reformed church on Sunday but had a different interest. You need a criterion as a government, but you also need a criterion as a citizen, so you know what you're up to. That is the main problem for my group with this proposal. I would very much like a clarification on that point. I would also like clarification on the possibility of appeal. You must also give something to a judge, because that judge is dealing with the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and the whole context, the Constitution, and so on, what he has to do with. Then what are the wrenches you give that judge to apply to that specific situation? One final question and that concerns the AIVD. Colleague Kops just calculated that, if we're not careful, we're gonna need 40,000 more people at the AIVD. Yes, it is, but if we ask the AIVD to do this work in this bill, it also requires additional capacity at the AIVD. How did the proposers foresee this? What kind of work does that entail and how much capacity does it cost? Mr. Chairman. I think I have made a great deal of points in this regard. After last week, I think we should take a serious look at these proposals. We are prepared to do so. We don't say no right away. But this proposal, as it stands, really doesn't make it across the bar. I sincerely invite you to work on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-3.u27	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Mr Sjoerdsma. He speaks for D66. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-3.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I too would like to begin by congratulating the initiators: Mr De Graaf, Mr Fritsma, Mr Wilders, I think he is on the bill, but also, of course, Mr Markuszower. It is always nice when colleagues in the Chamber exercise the right of initiative and in addition to controlling the government find time and energy to turn their own ideas into laws and regulations. This also requires some of the members of Parliament's staff. Of course, my compliments to them as well. Mr President, allow me to begin by giving general consideration to this legislative proposal, because it is a rather special initiative law. You might miss it at a rather too fleeting reading, but in fact this initiative law is one long apology letter to Minister Ollongren, an excuse in legislative prose though, an apology in the form of an explanatory statement. Because the PVV's relationship with this minister started a little rough. Immediately at the beginning of the cabinet, Mr Wilders tabled a motion of censure against this minister, not because of what she had done, but because of her origin. She also had Swedish nationality in addition to Dutch nationality. It was a sad spectacle, but it seems that the PVV has regretted it. Because with this law, the PVV definitively reconfirms its confidence in this minister. They trust this minister in such a way that they want to give her an unparalleled and unprecedented power in the history of our rule of law to lock up Dutch citizens on the basis of a very broad criterion, without restrictions in time. And say for yourself, Mr. Chairman, you wouldn't entrust that kind of authority to anyone. I found it equally touching how the PVV speaks in the explanatory statement about measures that can be taken by "our minister" of BZK. It doesn't say "the Minister" of BZK, it says "our minister" of BZK. I'm glad to see they've locked the minister in their arms like that. Mr. Chairman. So much for compliments, because the proposal itself is, of course, unwise and it undermines our rule of law. My group is in favour of effective and targeted counter-terrorism. It has already been said by previous colleagues: it is a very serious subject which deserves the attention of all the political parties in this Chamber. Everything we can do within our rule of law to tackle terror must be done. We must also note that criminal and administrative instruments have been considerably extended in recent years. The criminalisation of preparatory acts of terrorism has been extended. Further offences specifically targeted at terrorism have been introduced. Punishment ceilings have been raised. Persons who may be associated with terrorism and terrorist financing and pose a threat to national security may be subject to relatively restrictive administrative measures, such as an area, exit or contact ban and a reporting obligation. This cabinet also makes extra money available for counter-terrorism. After all, terror is the first thing you fight with people. But my group always weighs anti-terrorist measures within the framework of the rule of law. From that point of view, I have a number of questions for the initiators. In fact, many of the questions have already been asked in writing, but they have unfortunately been answered in a minimal manner. I will not repeat them all, but I will confine myself to the core. First of all, how does this proposal relate to the right to a fair trial? Can the initiators say more about this than the written answer given that there is 'a means of appeal'? For how can a fair appeal procedure be guaranteed if the information of the AIVD on which the Minister takes a decision is secret and confidential? Then how is a person to defend himself against that? Mr Azarkan van DENK already asked for this. I'd like an explanation. Secondly, it is also essential to know whether your behaviour is punishable or not. The conditions for putting someone behind bars really need to be formulated precisely. However, the proposal does not make it clear when someone "can be associated with possible terrorist activities." I read "connected" and "possible." In itself, that is not yet a criminal offence. I'm asking the initiators to put this into practice. When do they consider something a "possible terrorist activity"? And when can you be associated with that? I also ask this because I believe that this law may have unforeseen consequences for the PVV. I wouldn't want that, and I wouldn't find it right. For example, an NCTV report on right-wing extremist movements. I quote: "It is also noticeable that radical and sometimes violent activists use statements by politicians to defend their own activities. For example, during the migration crisis, activists legitimized violent actions, referring to 'Come in resistance', a statement by PVV leader Geert Wilders, despite his call to people to oppose what is happening without violence." But yes, if you say "to be associated with," then you are now mentioned in an NCTV report. The PVV group then wants the AIVD to decide on this. So you'll be "linked to." Is this enough? Is this a danger to Mr Wilders? I'd say it's unwise to do it that way. I do not think that is good for the work of Members of Parliament, but in a broader sense too, I do not think that it is good for how it should work. I can think of more examples like this. I will not do that, but I think it shows that the broadness of this law is far too great. Mr. Chairman. Thirdly, I wonder what value the initiators attach to the judiciary if they really invest in the implementation of the proposed far-reaching freedom-limiting measure with the Minister of the Interior. Do the initiators not see that such decisions on whether or not to lock someone up must by definition be made by an independent judge? I would also like to hear the opinion of the Minister of the Interior on the fact that this competence should lie with her, within the framework of the functioning of our rule of law. Mr President, I will conclude. I have a number of other objections to this law, but let me be clear: I do not think that legislation like this will help to combat terror, because it weakens our rule of law and increases the chances of innocent people being detained. And it is precisely our free and open society that is the society that wants to destroy terrorists. That is their ultimate goal, and we must not cooperate with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-3.u29	I hear Mr Sjoerdsma saying things that, in my view, are very close to the hesitations I have with this bill. I have a question for him anyway. Does D66 see the phenomenon of "administrative detention" as an opportunity in our society in relation to terrorism? Or does D66 really not see that possibility at all, and could only criminal law really have its function in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-3.u30	I would like to refer to what already exists. If Mr Van Dam will allow me to do so, I would like to look at that for a moment in the opinion of the Council of State. The Council of State refers to the powers that already exist for the King's Commissioner in the event of emergency conditions. I'll look them up. Those powers are already there. They're already there in case it's really, really, really necessary. My group considers that sufficient. My group does not think that additional measures are needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-3.u31	I have seen that too, but I believe that these powers can only be removed if there are real emergencies in the broad sense, and not if, for example, there is substantial information at the AIVD or elsewhere, from which there are no criminal offences. Would D66 then, without an emergency situation occurring in the country, see any possibility of any form of administrative detention in the event of terrorism? And I'm not just referring to Islam terrorism, but that's what I'm talking about in broad terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-3.u32	In any case, I think it is a good thing that Mr Van Dam outlines that this is about terrorism in broad terms. For if you read the explanatory memorandum and the letter of amendment, the image might arise that a law like this would only be meant against jihadist terrorism. However, extreme right-wing and other forms of terror, including extreme left-wing, are, as he rightly says, not only equally rejectable, but should also be combated in the same way. Having said that, I do not think that we need to take an additional step in this area. If I also look at the instruments that we have and that we have set up recently, then I do not think that we need to take an additional measure here. I also look at the steps we have taken, quite recently and still in this cabinet period, with the Temporary Act on the fight against terrorism, with what the intelligence services are doing in terms of information sharing with other European Member States, and with what we are doing abroad, even if it is just a military mission against ISIS. I do not think that we should take an additional measure here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-3.u33	In conclusion, Mr Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-3.u34	Well, I don't need to, uh, finish, but you're the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-3.u35	It's for you to finish.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-3.u36	I hear Mr Sjoerdsma say that we do not need to do so, given how it is happening now. I have suggested that we may have to think about situations that are not present in our experience, but which may arise. I do not think you are responding to that, so I would actually ask you to name specifically, regardless of what is happening now, or in general terms and perhaps also looking at the future, we feel that we are missing something in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-3.u37	I think I just answered that. I do not think so, but if Mr Van Dam makes proposals, I will look into it with interest. I do so also on the basis that everything that can and must be done within the rule of law in the fight against terrorism is worth studying. But at the moment I do not see the reason for any additional measures, as Mr Van Dam suggests.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-3.u38	You finished your speech, I believe?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-3.u39	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-3.u40	Thank you. Mr Van Wijngaarden has the floor, but I saw him leave the Chamber as a matter of urgency. I see he's coming back now and I suggest he be given the floor. He speaks on behalf of the VVD. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-3.u41	Thank you, Mr President. If you call, I'll come.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-3.u42	See, that's what a chairman likes to hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-3.u43	Mr. Chairman. The speaker of the PVV, Mr Kops, just started the attacks. Those are moments of course that are burned on the retina with all of us. Reference was also made to France. I have some friends and family who live in France. When you hear how the fear still concerns some people, when they haven't even been there, then I understand very well the quest of these proposers for opportunities to cut off people who are really evil towards us. I think we all share that search; Mr Van Dam referred to it as well. Definitely the VVD also supports the search for opportunities to cut off the bad guys. Mr. Chairman. Having said that, I would like to begin by congratulating the authors and congratulating them on their important work. To defend an initiative law here is a memorable moment, a parliamentary highlight. Then to the content. I have found that the proposers have clearly sought the limits of the legally feasible, so dare and courage cannot be denied. They are convinced that all existing instruments seem to be inadequate. Everyone wants, and can also expect, that the government will do what is necessary to protect the Netherlands from terrorists who want to violate our rule of law. "Wanting to abuse the rule of law" is in itself also a wording that we need to take into account. The members propose that the Dutch be given the power to jail for up to six months via the government, without the need for a judge. Moreover, detention may be extended for the same duration each time, infinitely. The number of times the measure under this proposal can be extended is therefore not limited. We've taken a good look at the proposal. Have the initiators taken into account that their proposal does something that also targets terrorists? Indeed, it renders important foundations of our Dutch rule of law inoperative. This will make it possible for the government to hold you as a Dutchman for six months without a proper and fair criminal trial, without defense, without any possibility of appeal, without any foreseeable criminal offence by law and without protection against abuse of justice and arbitrariness. These are all the foundations of the rule of law. Moreover, in theory detention can be infinite, because the measure can be extended an infinite number of times; that is not maximized. I'd like a response from the proposers to this concern. The principle of criminal legality means that people know clearly in advance what behaviour is punishable, so that they can adapt their behaviour accordingly. This principle is the cornerstone of criminal law in a functioning rule of law. This proposal removes this cornerstone. If the government, under the guise of guarding the security of the Dutch people, can lock up outside the court without criminal proceedings, this raises the question of who is guarding the guards. In addition, there is a second reason why this proposal may not combat terrorism, but serves precisely. In fact, judges are bound by the ne-bis-in-idem principle, the principle of law that a person cannot be prosecuted twice for the same fact. On the basis of this proposal, a person may be locked up for, in principle, six months on the basis of undefined conduct which may be associated with possible terrorist activities. That's nine and a half years shorter than the prison sentence that's possible when the same person comes to court for conspiracy or preparation of an attack. However, if that person has previously been punished administratively, a judge must take account of these circumstances of the case, which means that that person can either not be prosecuted at all, or gets away with a lower prison sentence. How do the proposers see this risk of lower and milder penalties thanks to their proposal? Or is their confidence in justice so great that they think that this will be easy and that judges will still dare to give the full pound of punishment, even if an administrative penalty has been imposed before? This proposal must, if I understand it correctly, be an anti-terrorism law, but it must not be limited to terrorism. Why not? Making it possible to prosecute a potentially dangerous person, a person who could pose a potential threat, is not defined in this proposal. Why not? There are also no concrete grounds for imposing a measure of freedom-absorbedness. I ask the authors why they are not present. It is unclear for the VVD to whom and for what facts or behaviour detention can be imposed, if I look at the text of the law itself. Can the proposers clarify this? I look forward to the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-3.u44	Thank you for your input. Finally, Mr Azarkan has the floor. He speaks on behalf of DENK. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-3.u45	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is good practice to congratulate fellow MEPs who have taken the initiative to come to a law. That's what I'm doing here. The same applies to the consultant who assists them and to official support. Mr. Chairman. De Graaf, Markuszower and Fritsma are here now, but of course the idea has been known a bit longer. Fifteen, sixteen years ago, it was announced. We've waited a long time for it. Geert Wilders announced it sometime in 2004. It's been 15 years. I sat down for it, but not very long, because it's two A4s; it's very limited. I have read the explanatory statement very well, but it did not help me much. In essence, they propose that the Minister be given the power to throw someone into prison without any form of trial, under the guise of national security, on the basis of "behaviour." I liked that. Six months, six months, six months, six months and so on. Mr. Chairman. That makes us wonder what a potentially dangerous person is. I don't know. I think it might be just like that if you violate our rule of law, it's dangerous. Mr De Graaf, Mr Markuszower and Mr Fritsma are an example of this. I have the feeling that they have not understood very much about the rule of law or that they do not care too much about it. We have seen too often that PVVs abhor our rule of law, our democracy and our Constitution, because that Constitution protects minorities, gives freedom to all citizens. When PVVs make proposals, they often contradict them. I sometimes have the idea, when a proposal is made at the PVV which does not go against the Constitution, that it goes through the shredder in Geert's room. Mr. Chairman. The PVV wants to deprive 1.3 million people with a dual nationality of the right to vote and stand as a candidate, wants to exclude parties, this minister wanted to fire Ollongren, because she has a different origin. The PVV wants to ban a religion, to fire judges because they are members of D66, wants to shut down prayer houses. Today, they propose to give the Minister, who indeed, as Mr Sjoerdsma rightly pointed out, still wanted to fire at the start of her ministry, an unlimited opportunity to throw Dutch people in prison without trial with a marginal test. Mr. Chairman. Let it be clear: DENK underlines the great importance of combating terrorism, both nationally and internationally. Protecting the Dutch citizen is one of the core tasks of the government and parliament. However, we do do so within the framework of the rule of law, and this proposal does not comply with it at all. The Council of State, where there really are lawyers who have a great deal of understanding about everything that has to do with our democratic rule of law and its monitoring, has made this proposal a reality. The Council concludes that the proposed criminalisation results in a restriction of the right to freedom of movement. This right is enshrined, inter alia, in the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The Council of State also concludes that the necessary need for the proposal has not been demonstrated. I quote the Opinion: 'The Advisory Section of the Council of State proposes that you do not send the proposal to the Second Chamber of the States General'. In addition, they assessed that the limits acceptable in the rule of law are far exceeded in this plan. Mr President, here we are. With this kind of urgent advice you would say: do the homework again; think about it another 15 years, maybe 30, take your time. But we're still here. The PVV does not seem to understand that, given the provocative party program and the sometimes scandalous statements of MPs. I'm only concluding one thing. If the PVV is to further develop this proposal, it needs an incentive, a lesson of the rule of law for beginners. I took the liberty of encouraging you to buy three books from Dorien Pessers, "The Rule of Law for Beginners." I'd like to hand it over to the clerk. The cost was €20.85, but I am happy to give them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-3.u46	Thank you for your input. The book is presented to the three initiators.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-25-tweedekamer-3.u47	This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I would like to thank the speakers, the honourable Members, for their input.
