ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-6.u1	Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mr Smeulders on behalf of GroenLinks for his question to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, whom I warmly welcome. The question is about the scheme for the sustainability of rental homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-6.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In this House of Representatives, incredibly often people talk about sustainability. The only problem is that it often stays with talking. There's so little going on. The Netherlands is still one of the worst countries in Europe if you look at, for example, the percentage of renewable energy we generate. It's high time for action. This minister also talks a lot, but she took one very good measure. Housing corporations and large landlords had to pay less tax if they became sustainable, for example by purchasing solar panels or isolating houses. This is not only good for the environment, but also for the wallet of a lot of tenants. They get a nicer house and a lower energy bill for it. That is very positive, because I believe that all parties in the Chamber, from left to right, want corporations to take the lead in the energy transition. Housing corporations want to do so themselves, according to the applications in the first three months of this year. There are now so many applications that 25,000 homes are being preserved. That's a really great success. But what does the Cabinet do now? The cabinet will stop this measure from 1 July. And why? It's simple: money. The cabinet made 78 million available for this year and next year. Now it appears that EUR 94 million has already been spent in the first few months of this year. Stopping such a good measure because of the money GroenLinks really thinks it's a shame. Now we finally have a successful arrangement, and then we quit. That is why two questions to the Minister. The first is: does the Minister also consider that the sustainability of the built environment should not be delayed? The second is even simpler: what is this minister going to do to prevent the regime from being discontinued by 1 July?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-6.u3	I shall now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-6.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to Mr Smeulders for his question. I saw him coming a little bit, of course, when I saw the message from the NOS following the letter I had sent to the Chamber. "Success nests arrangement" made the NIS of it. Mr Smeulders also talks about the success of this arrangement. By the way, we fully agree on the content: sustainability is important and this is a good measure. According to Mr Smeulders, it is the only good measure. I'd like to fight that, but that's not what his question is about. The scheme is indeed a success. That is the most important thing for me, because we want to make housing more sustainable and we want the housing corporations to be able to participate fully in it. This measure was the result of the coalition agreement. It is a burden relief for housing corporations that are sustainable to use through this tax reduction for sustainability. It is also quite specific, because it is a tax reduction that is eligible for housing that is preserved by at least three label steps to label B. Then there must also be a certain amount of investment, and it must have been done within three years. That's what this arrangement was about. There are also other ways to make it more sustainable, and there is also plenty of maintenance by housing corporations. But this money was meant for this category. Now, in the Netherlands, we have a good habit of saying, when we open an arrangement, how much money is available. Then we agree that, when we see that that ceiling of that money has been reached, we communicate in good time that we must stop. That's exactly what happened here. So I'm happy about that. Because if the question is "is sustainability slowing down?', I say: no, sustainability is not slowing down; it has been accelerated, because the scheme is a success. It is fully registered, and if they meet the criteria, these tenderers will deliver those preserved homes within three years. That's great. There is no delay; it is an acceleration. And what am I gonna do? I made money available for this year and next year. At some point, the end of it comes into view. After that, structural money is available for precisely this purpose. That hasn't changed either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-6.u5	I do find the Minister's answer special: it is not a delay, it is an acceleration. The aim of this cabinet is to make all 7 million homes in the Netherlands more sustainable by 2050. The aim of this cabinet is also to make one and a half million homes more sustainable by 2030. This means that over the next ten years we will have to make 150 000 homes more sustainable. Now there's an arrangement that housing corporations sign up for. In the meantime there are 25,000 entries and the cabinet says: 'Oh, that's very hard, we'll stop it.' Then we are far from getting close to the 150,000 houses, which the cabinet itself said we were going to do. I find that incomprehensible and I would like to have a response from the Minister. I also like to get a reaction to the relationship with Urgendavonnis. This means that we must have saved a certain share of CO by 2020. It's been about this on a regular basis and we all know we're probably not gonna make it. This can be a short-term measure that is both good for the tenants and good for the climate. So that's what I'm curious about. Then there is the question of the budget, because we are not entirely comfortable with that. We can see that things are indeed moving faster than the cabinet might have expected. The Minister says that there is money available for this year and next year. Probably run out on July 1st. No budget is available for 2021 at all. Structural money will not be available until 2022. Can the Minister comment specifically on how she sees the period from 1 July to 2022? In our view, there is no budget available for this and that is unacceptable. I would like to ask the Minister whether she can still arrange extra money so that sustainability can really be accelerated rather than delayed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-6.u6	Thank you for these supplementary questions; a whole series of them, by the way. I have just argued that this scheme focuses on a specific segment: housing corporations that are going to make three label jumps, which go to B, have a certain amount of investment in it and also settle it within three years. Many applications have been submitted, so much so that the ceiling has indeed come into view. Mr Smeulders can turn it around, but I will turn it back to that success. It means that the scheme provides for a need and that these corporations will now be able to achieve this. It'll take a while. Then I'll get to the point of Urgenda right away. The cabinet is very aware of Urgenda and the task. What Mr Smeulders is saying is correct, because it is about measures that will actually produce megatons this year or next year. For the applications that lie here, that is just the question. Everything that is started is nicely taken into account and the sooner it is realized, the better it is me, but the applicants have three years to realize this from the moment they have submitted their application. I told you, it's not the only thing the cabinet wants to do. You know the draft climate agreement. That includes other measures. We share the analysis that housing corporations can play an important role in this. We also have the ISDE and we're looking at the Energy Investment Deduction for rental homes. We need to be able to use more instruments. Finally, Mr Smeulders asks how I want to bridge this on my way to 2022, until that structural amount of 104 million is available. That will have to be looked at. It would be crazy if I had an answer by now on a budget that we are not even preparing yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-6.u7	Finishing, one sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-6.u8	Sure, one sentence. I would like to thank the Minister for her reply. I believe that the conclusion of this debate is that we are far from there. As GroenLinks, we want to be incredibly hard. We hope that the majority of the parties in the Chamber will support us in making an extra budget for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-6.u9	There is talk here of a successful arrangement, but I myself do not really measure the success of the money, but rather how much less rent, energy and housing costs tenants will have to pay and how much CO will be saved. My question to the Minister is: is it clear to what extent the energy costs have actually been reduced, whether tenants are better off and how much CO has really been saved? Or do we have plans that were actually already there and otherwise were carried out, just additional subsidies? If that is the case, it seems to me that we need to learn something from it for any future arrangements.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-6.u10	Mrs Van Eijs asks a relevant question, because I am also concerned about some tenants in the positive sense of brands. What does it achieve in terms of sustainability and reduction of emissions? Those are all relevant questions. I just named the criteria. They see the sustainability as such, on the label steps and the duration of the project. I agree with Mrs Van Eijs that we should actually be able to map this with every arrangement or instrument we have. We could, of course, draw conclusions from that. But I can't do that here from the loose wrist.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-6.u11	With this cabinet sustainability becomes a celebration for the elite, because hundreds of millions of grants go to Tesla's for the rich. It's just gonna happen. To social tenants sitting through this cabinet with a towering energy bill, the Minister says very nicely: we will stop this arrangement. 80% of the money for sustainability goes to the most wealthy Dutch. That can't be true, can it? I would like to know from the Minister whether she is prepared to invest in the low-income and middle-income people right now by setting up a master plan for isolation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-6.u12	Mrs Beckerman is allowed to use Question Time for anything she wants, but I would like to tell her that this regulation is intended precisely for rental homes, for the social rental sector in the Netherlands. I would like to say the same thing to her as to Mr Smeulders. The arrangement's here. It has been opened up and is a success. This means that the social rental homes in the Netherlands are improving and with that also the tenants in those social rental homes. Then, of course, it is a matter of measure. I do think that the SP would probably have made other choices in this, the SP had it all in place. We have made choices in this as a coalition and as a cabinet. It was planned to use this 100 million reduction specifically for sustainability. That's what happened. This was foreseen in the coalition agreement. As I have just outlined, we also have the work of the climate agreement. So we do a lot. We're doing this for sustainability. I'm standing here in front of the tenants, too. Mrs Beckerman and I always agree on that, but she wants a little more.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-6.u13	By the way, I'm glad the Minister's back. Mr. Chairman. We have warned widely in the Chamber that the budget would be far too low. I said myself that you can just replace every light bulb with a savings lamp and then the money is gone. Now that appears to be the case. It's a drop on a glowing plate. What is the Minister going to do to ensure that tenants also get a neatly isolated home? That's a really big problem. Should they wait until 2020? If all these housing corporations are going to wait, because the budget is now up and there might be a new arrangement, we will be lagging behind. Then the tenants are screwed. What is the Minister going to do to prevent that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-6.u14	I don't want to repeat myself. This scheme sees in a specific way as sustainable, i.e. to carry out three label steps in three years with certain investment costs. You're describing that housing corporations are waiting for another arrangement, but that's not right. There is plenty of preservation in the Netherlands. I have also just outlined that under the draft climate agreement there are other measures that help to improve sustainability, including for the housing stock of rental homes in the Netherlands. I already mentioned the ISDE. I also mentioned the Energy Investment Deduction. We have gas-free neighborhoods where we put money in and where housing corporations also benefit from. After all, it's customization. This is not the only area where the success of sustainability and the success for tenants in the Netherlands can be measured. But again, I am glad that this success is there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-23-tweedekamer-6.u15	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this oral Question Time. After the suspension, we'll vote.
