ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-4.u1	We start with a number of educational debates, starting with the VAO Final test p.o. and transition p.o. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-4.u2	Good morning. I can make it quick. I have one proposition. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government stops offering the Central Final Test via the CvTE;]] [[noting that only private parties are allowed to offer final tests;]] [[considers that the public authorities should retain this public task;]] [[calls on the Government not to privatise the Central Final Test,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kwint. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31293-479]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-4.u3	I can't make it any clearer, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-4.u4	No. Thank you. Mrs Westerveld, GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-4.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We know that Dutch children have to opt for a follow-up study far too early. We also know that this leads to inequality of opportunity and that we are often asking children at a much too young age to determine their future. In addition, we ask primary school teachers to predict how pupils will do in secondary education. We also know that there will be a lot more pressure on young children to make this final test as good as possible. This is reflected, among other things, in the increase in shadow education. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, we really need to get rid of that focus on that final test. A number of points were raised in the debate, but we also have a motion on this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a focus on the final test may lead to performance pressure and inequality of opportunity, by, for example, providing some of the children with shadow education;]] [[noting that the education inspection has shown that a focus on the school advice can also lead to inequality of opportunity;]] [[noting that in the Netherlands very early selection is made at educational level;]] [[Whereas, within the current system, teachers in primary education should predict how pupils operate in secondary education, while teachers in secondary education have a better view of this;]] [[calls on the Government to develop the scenario whereby pupils pass on to broad bridge classes without a final test or school advice and the level at which the student flows;]] [[calls on the government to include this scenario in the long-term vision of this cabinet on the final test and school advice,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Westerveld, Mr Van Raan and Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31293-480]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-4.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for a good and substantive debate. It is clear that we would very much like to see this opinion automatically revised upwards if the final test is higher than the school opinion. We have talked about this before, even when discussing our own initiative paper, simply because, as far as we're concerned, it shouldn't matter whether your parents are mature and assertive enough to start such a whole procedure to update that school advice upwards. The Minister believes that this would make the final test too important and sees no reason to proceed to automatic adjustment. That is why this time there is no motion, but there are two requests which we hope will be able to find each other. Firstly, the Minister is working on the design of a so-called flow-through test. I would like to hear if he is willing to include the effects of having or not having mature parents. Secondly, the Minister intends to provide additional support for teachers in areas where under-advisation is above average. That's good news. We have also asked Parliament questions about this before. Is he prepared to inform the Chamber of what exactly this additional support will look like? We prefer to see concrete objectives, so that we do not allow children to fall victim to under-advisation at the end of this fresh school year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-4.u7	Thank you. I call Mr Van Meenen of D66. He's quitting his speaking time. So I'm looking at the minister. Can you get back to me immediately with your answer? That's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-4.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And even now, after the summer, thanks to the Chamber for the input during a general consultation that we had extensively with each other before the summer. By the way, I can tell you that the internal investigation into what went wrong at the time of the final test has now been completed. I'll send that report to the Chamber. It also makes a good assessment of the approach we have taken. But you'll have to read it yourself. I was kind of happy with this report that's here right now. Mr. Chairman. With regard to the input now: the SP would like to see the Central Final key remain offered from the CvTE. We have made it clear ourselves that it is very important that there are pure roles and that the supervisory function is also better invested. In my opinion, the debacle has taken place, and I would like to mention this for a moment, although we have finally managed to resolve it well with each other. That is why we are now going to put the CvTE in that position and not let it play a role as the owner of the Central Final Test. That was a rather hybrid role, namely on the one hand CvTE and on the other hand private providers. So we're done. Then we'll just have to wait and see if that Central Final test is gonna be taken private as well. We don't know yet; we'll see about that. But the CvTE we really want to put in the position of supervisor. Everything we've been through over the past few years suggests that that's just what we need. For that reason, I advise against the motion in part No. 479 by Mr Kwint. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Westerveld van GroenLinks has the motion in part No. 480, which indicates that she would also like a scenario in which no test is offered at all. I have, of course, outlined in my letter what we are doing right now. I do not intend to develop new scenarios now, but what you want is part of what we are doing now. I want to take the pressure off the key anyway. Mrs van den Hul has also put her finger on this. It is of course important, because it provides information, but we also consider the teacher's opinion very important. That's why I want to go to what we call the flow test. However, there must always be room to test, to see what information this provides that can be used for advice but also to assess whether a student is in the right place. I have also indicated that I think it is very important that, if a student has left primary education and is in secondary education, we have opportunities to put that student in the right place if it appears that there has been under-advisation or perhaps over-advisation. So we are very focused to follow students much better and also switch them when they need to. At the 10-14-schools, where also a test is taken but more as a kind of intermediate position to see where a student is, we are of course also working to reduce the great importance of the test. We're going to evaluate that later. In short, the way in which we have set it up now seems to me to be entirely in line with what you yourself say, namely that the key should not be so dominant and that it can't be that you swim in a trap that you can't come out of once a test has been taken. Everything is now focused on not doing so. That's how I'd like to work. I therefore advise against your motion, but I believe that what we are doing in the process is entirely in line with what you have just introduced. There is one difference, namely that you wouldn't want a test at all. That test let's just be part of the whole thing, but not as dominant as it has ever been, at least in the minds of a lot of people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-4.u9	The motion in part No. 480 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-4.u10	I understand what the Minister is saying and I know the plans of the cabinet, but in practice we see that the focus on the test is increasing. I have already mentioned an example. We can see it from the increase in shadow education and from the stress of young children. We also see it in teachers who indicate that more and more parents are putting pressure on them to ensure that school advice is as high as possible. We should not close our eyes to this, which is why we, as one of the possible scenarios, want to see if we can't get off that test. We can see that there is a big difference between what the Minister is doing and what is happening in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-4.u11	You're right we're worried about that. You are right that in practice we see, for example, shadow education. But that is precisely why the cabinet has come up with the proposals that lie here. These are proposals for a number of changes, also to put the teacher in the position he should be in, if the professional just follows those students for years and can, together with colleagues, judge where a student stands and what he can do. We do think it is important to include the judgement of a flow-through test, as we are going to call it in the long term. We're going to fine-tune even further how we're going to connect that in time. So we are working in all kinds of ways to prevent the test from having such a perverse effect that it may have consequences, especially for children of parents who could not go along with it or who are not empowered, as Mrs Van den Hul has said a number of times. Again, we are working on that, but it is just a step too far for me to do it in the plans that we now have completely without test. By the way, in principle, I already see a situation that is very similar in the 10-14 schools. If the evaluation is available, we can judge very well whether it might be possible to release the test altogether in those types of constructions. Anyway, that evaluation isn't gonna take place for more than a year. So I am not going to anticipate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-4.u12	I'm not saying there shouldn't be an external check, because I think it's very important, just like the fact that professionals are looking at it. The question is whether you should do that in elementary school. That's the point. In our view, you should shift it to a few years later. We are not the only ones to say that, because the inspection also says that Dutch children choose far too early. So we are not saying that the external check should be removed, but that you should prevent children from having to deal with such a stressful situation at such a young age and make a choice at such a young age.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-4.u13	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-4.u14	Mrs van den Hul has indicated that children may be under-advised by less mature parents and may therefore be swimming in a trap where they no longer come out. In the proposals made by the cabinet, which I defended before the summer and which we are now defending again, we have clearly stated that we want to get rid of that one moment in primary education or in the partnership between p.o. and vo when it comes to those 10-14 schools. We also think that in the following years we should focus on whether the boy or the girl is in the right place and whether the advice has been good. That is also a response to Mrs van den Hul's question on how we can ensure that such a student is put in a good place if that has not been the case. You know that we have discussed a law on the education register here. He has also passed through the Upper Chamber. I was allowed to defend them there. This law entered into force in August and will ensure that information from secondary education is also provided in primary education, thereby strengthening it on the basis of experience data. This can show whether the advice is well-involved. Let's try it p.o. and to connect more and more, to accompany a student in his school career and to ensure that he or she is in the right place. So we're really doing a lot of work. I think that is entirely in line with what you say, namely that we should get rid of the one moment in primary education that could be decisive for a student's school career. We don't want that. So I'm not going to do it according to your motion, but it's not like we're not going to do this. With regard to the flow test and taking less mature parents into account, I indicated that the test will be less decisive. We are in the process of developing a hand-held school advice that goes to the schools. In particular, this will take account of fewer mature parents. There will be a conference in September on the transition of p.o. To vo, where this will also be a subject. We want to talk to those involved to bring this issue to their attention. The SLO is involved in the hand-handling of school advice. They'll go to the schools, too. So we're working on that in all kinds of ways. Because of my commitment to you on the areas where it is extra necessary, we are paying attention to the fact that it will reach them too, so that we ensure that advice is in order and that children of less mature parents do not suffer from wrong choices, because they may later have a disadvantage that they may have to deal with at a later date. So that has our full attention. If there is such a hand-out, I will, of course, see to it that you receive it. Mr President, I think those were the questions that were asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-4.u15	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this first VAO.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-05-tweedekamer-4.u16	The two motions tabled will be put to the vote next Tuesday.
