ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-2.u1	We shall begin with Mr Sneller's question on behalf of D66 to the Prime Minister, whom I would also like to welcome. Mr Sneller's question concerns the cost of palace inventories. I call Mr Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-2.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "Not again!" I think the Prime Minister, like me, had exactly that feeling when he heard about the results of good detective work by NRC. Again there's a fuss about the costs of the Royal House. Yesterday, the Prime Minister was unable to clarify this, because, as he said, it is extremely complicated, it was not on purpose, I cannot explain it all exactly, but it is all true. Mr. Chairman. That is not enough, and I would therefore like the Prime Minister to clarify three issues raised by NRC. Firstly, is it true that the State, or the taxpayer, has purchased the inventories of four palaces from the Royal House for approximately 20 million? If so, why has Parliament never been informed? Secondly, is it true that a substantial part of the estate purchased by the State at that time was already owned by the State, and that we paid double? Thirdly, is it true that the State has in fact paid double for the maintenance of these inventories since the 1980s? On the one hand, we are paying for this as owner, namely through the National Real Estate Company, on the budget of BZK as spokesman for Finance, I say: Article 9 of the Royal House and through the Royal House Service, Article 2 of the King's budget. On the other hand, however, there is also Article 1 (b) for gourmets; I see that there are a few here in the B component that are still paying for the maintenance of those inventories. Then we'll pay double, I'll ask the Prime Minister. And if so, will he also be prepared to put an end to this construction in the next year? Mr. Chairman. It seems that the Royal House no longer bears the burden, but twice the pleasure, namely both the well maintained inventories and the compensation. What's the Prime Minister gonna do to get this out of the way?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-2.u3	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-2.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me figure out what I know now. I am well aware, and I said that yesterday when I said that it is so complicated, that it goes back historically and is also legally complex. The danger is that if you let your light shine on one aspect, the big whole will stay in the dark. Mr. Chairman. I would therefore like to say that I am working on a letter to the Chamber, in which I will give a detailed account of the situation both in terms of financing and in terms of purchases over time. This morning's article in the NRC was mainly about those purchases over time. I haven't had a chance to figure out exactly what's going on there. I can say something about this funding, but I will come back to that in the letter. This is already the subject of discussion, and I have to go back to the seventies. At that time, agreements were made on the financing of the Royal House and the Law on the Financial Statute of the Royal House, the WFSKH. Two years ago, a report was published by Carla van Baalen following the commotion that had arisen the year before. That was discussed extensively in this Chamber in the budget of General Affairs in 2017, I thought. In that you can see that the determination of the financing of the Royal House has ultimately been the outcome of all the agreements made at that time and that you cannot, therefore, move a post from before those agreements one-on-one to now. What's the deal now? Thus, for the daily maintenance and management of the palace-based national collection, the King has not since been individually compensated, not in Article 1, not in Article 2, nowhere in the King's budget. The maintenance is financed by the Royal House Service from the King's budget. That is Article 2, the functional expenditure. So, in my view, this is not a question of double funding. But again, it's all terribly complex. I told you. That has nothing to do with the complexity of the law, but with the need to bring the past into play. I really want to sort it out and get it straight. Then I will include the other questions, namely what exactly is happening with the purchase, because I simply cannot answer them properly. It has just been too short of time. So that's about the second NRC article, so to speak, this morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-2.u5	I thank the Prime Minister for his commitment. I think it is a good thing that we are getting more clarity about this. I'm also glad he's not already concluding that it's all gonna be okay. As he himself says, you can't just go through that post from the 1970s, which is exactly what he did in that debate he's referring to, namely the General Affairs budget, which says that that amount has been indexed over time; nothing in it, nothing in it. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-2.u6	I can't get a debate back from two years ago. I should check it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-2.u7	But this is about exactly that part of the king's compensation. We discussed this at length and the Prime Minister says: that has not been indexed since then, and you cannot go through with it. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-2.u8	What I said was that in the 1970s, the whole financing of the Oranges was revisited. That's what Carla van Baalen figured out. What was the problem? Queen Juliana was interning on her private property and the entire family funding was not stable. Then we looked again at how we could solve that structurally well. That ended up in the Royal House Financial Statute Act. You can't just post the situation for that one-on-one. So you can't just move posts from the sixties and seventies to after. That has actually become a big, simple budget. The pot of money for the DKH is in fact a simple pot, from which all kinds of expenses are spent. The maintenance of those furniture is most of it. To be very precise, because there is also a distinction in that, some furniture are maintained from another pot, because they are part of a great restoration, but by far the most happens from that wide pot of the Royal House Service.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-2.u9	I would like to receive a response to why the Chamber has never been informed about these purchases, including in that letter or perhaps now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-2.u10	Those are the purchases the NRC is writing about today. That's what I'm gonna go into in that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-2.u11	But also how this is done. The KPMG's audit report, which has been made public, clearly includes that B component: maintenance inventory. That's kind of broken down here as if that's what it's all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-2.u12	Look, it's true that in the budget for the Royal House Service, one large budget is made available. Then you can see from historical figures how much you spend on different activities or the accountant can establish afterwards that this and this has been spent on it. It already shows that the King finances restoration of these furniture from that wide pot of the Royal House Service and that there is therefore no double funding.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-2.u13	The wide pot for the Royal House Service is article 2, but we are talking about article 1 here and that is the fee for the King, which, according to KPMG's audit report, also includes this. It could also be reimbursed, while the Prime Minister rightly says: I do not think that we can go through this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-2.u14	In Article 1, you talk about the expenditure component for the royal function, not the Royal House Service, but that part that is actually covered by Article 41 of the Constitution: the King establishes his house in accordance with the public interest. Of course, costs can also be reimbursed, but then it is still the case, as you yourself say, I say to Mr Sneller, that the King himself, out of the funding he receives from the state, co-finances the restoration of the furniture, while the image was created yesterday that this happened twice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-2.u15	That is the image that the Prime Minister does not take away, because it is both with the National Real Estate Company and with Article 2, namely the Royal House Service, and besides that the King himself receives money that would be intended for this purpose.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-2.u16	No, look, daily maintenance and restoration management are all carried out and paid for by the Royal House Service. That's what he does. If you talk about large occasional restorations of the palace-based national collection, for example, if that restoration coincides with a renovation, then it is done by the Empire, from BZK, the National Real Estate Company, but the normal maintenance work and restoration work of the furniture is done from the DKH pot.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-2.u17	Finally, Mr Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-2.u18	I think it would be a good idea for the Prime Minister to go into this in more detail in that letter, including the documents that have been made public and the things that I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-2.u19	I'm gonna sort all that out. Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-2.u20	My question for now is: what if it does come out that that component has been extended from the 1970s, because he does not rule that out, is he prepared to reduce it by the same amount?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-2.u21	Again, I do not come to that conclusion. I do not think that the conclusion is justified, so I am not going to answer that question as a dance question. But let me write that in a letter to the Chamber. If I do not convince you, I expect Mr Sneller to see me again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-2.u22	Then we will meet in the General Affairs budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-2.u23	That's what I was afraid of. I look forward to it, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-2.u24	Thank you. Mr Van Raak, on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-2.u25	Since 2006, I have been asking the Prime Minister to be open and honest about the costs of the Royal House. And chairman, every year there's stuff about flying costs, about De Groene Draeck, about taxes; always stuff about money. I ask the Prime Minister: should I, as a member of the SP Chamber, warn this Prime Minister that this is bad for the reputation of the Royal House? And I ask the Prime Minister: when will the cabinet finally open and be honest about the costs of the Royal House?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-2.u26	That's what we do in the budget. When a few years ago there was a fuss about an alleged tax deal that was a message in 2016.. is that all sorted out by the aforementioned Carla van Baalen. That report showed that the tax deal wasn't there. We are making maximum openness in the budget. Over the years I have been allowed to be Prime Minister, it has also been more special. There is more clarity about what is being financed from other budget chapters. And if there's a fuss that was very heavy in 2016, because there would be a shady tax deal, in the early seventies. It turns out that wasn't true at the time. So we'll do the same thing, then we'll figure it out, and then we'll see if it's true. I have no reason to believe that the Oranges at home are thinking hand rubbing: we have a little extra money drawn towards us. But, of course, mistakes can always be made without anyone wanting to. Then you have to find out. Fortunately, that was not the case at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-2.u27	Year in, year out, GroenLinks asks for openness when it comes to agreements around the Royal House budget. It is not good that if there has been such a deal around inventory and maintenance of the stuff, there is now uncertainty about the payment and the financing of it. It is very good to know what happened from the moment of the deal until now and how the deal has been dealt, i.e. what the consequences of the deal are. Actually, I have a very simple question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-2.u28	And that question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-2.u29	Who owns the furniture and stuff from the palaces anyway? And who is responsible for the maintenance of the equipment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-2.u30	The maintenance is paid from the DKH pot. The furniture, as shown by today's NRC, is sold back to the State at some point. In my letter I am going to explain exactly what happened in the 1980s. But if you don't mind, it's not my daily memory what Dries of Agt or Lubbers did to those furniture in the eighties. The present king doesn't have all of that ready either, so we're gonna find out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-2.u31	Thank you.
