ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-2.u1	The next item is oral Question Time. We shall begin today with Mrs Leijten's question from the SP to the Minister of Finance, who will replace the Secretary of State for Finance. The question is about the message "Research into Ethnic Profiling by Tax Administration." I call Mrs Leijten on behalf of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-2.u2	"We can't make it any better, but it's easier." For years it was the slogan of the IRS. But for at least 235 people, making the Tax Administration easier became a real hell. They were wrongly detected with fraud and had to pay back tens of thousands of euros. We have talked about this a few times in the Chamber and there have been apologies. These people have been greatly wronged. Their children have also been wronged. They got in trouble because their parents were so in trouble because of the fight with the government. The government declared its own citizens an enemy. The Chamber has instructed the Secretary of State to talk to these people. Has that happened yet? A lot of questions have been asked. Pieter Ommzigt has asked a lot of questions. The journalists of Trouw and RTL News have asked a lot of questions. What strikes me is that we're getting narrow answers. It has been established that this is a scandalous case and that this should never have happened. And yet we can't get over what exactly happened. Do people get excuses, but no compensation? What strikes me is that the victims all have a migrant background. They have also lodged a complaint with the Dutch Data Protection Authority and an investigation is under way. But now the Tax Administration stated on Friday that he cannot guarantee that the selection of this investigation did not involve consciously looking at someone's background. Can the Minister guarantee that by now? Can he rule out selection being made in the background? And does he acknowledge that tracking fraud should always be about facts and not about anyone's background? Mr. Chairman. Fraud with surcharges is rightly being combated. But the IRS has to do that with human standards. That's what the Chamber instructed the Secretary of State. Then how is it possible that there are still thirteen expensive trials against these people? Will the Minister shut it down? Because time and time again the Tax Administration loses and time and time again the parents are equal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-2.u3	I now give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-2.u4	Mr President, thank you and thank you also to Mrs Leijten for the questions on this complex and painful dossier. The Secretary of State has already discussed with your Chamber and also with the Permanent Chambers Committee on the way in which the Tax Administration and the Supplements Department operate, in the context of the so-called CAF-11, among other things. The Secretary of State has apologized to your Chamber and, above all, to the parents for the way this has gone. I would also like to underline this myself, and I would like to point out once again that this has taken too long and is very annoying. I am going to say a lot more, but first I will answer Mrs Leijten's first question. We started talking in this context. The first official talks took place. I've explicitly checked it out. The first meeting the Secretary of State will have is at the beginning of June. I think it's June 5th, but don't pin me down on the date. The talks are official, but the Secretary of State will also participate in these talks. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the point about which this is the main issue and which Mrs Leijten quite rightly points out: ethnic profiling. Let me be absolutely clear: the cabinet rejects any form of ethnic profiling. Ethnic profiling is not allowed, in any way. What you're allowed to do is look for an objectivable ground. Mrs Leijten rightly referred to that. I would like to underline the distinction she made. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Leijten said that we have been given a short answer. I believe that a lot of debates have been held with the Chamber and a lot of letters have been sent, particularly on the CAF case. I know that Mr Omtzigt in particular is still waiting for answers, so we will give them as soon as possible. There are a number of other things that I would like to commit and highlight in the direction of the Chamber, especially in the category 'how to proceed'. The Ombudsman started an investigation into the process in the CAF-11 case in 2017. In 2018 he indicated that he would close the investigation, but this year the research will still present the citizen perspective in risk profiling. This is one of the additional steps taken, not by the cabinet. But it is important to name it, because it is one of the things that will happen in this dossier. Apart from the National Ombudsman, the subject of profiling also has the attention of the Dutch Data Protection Authority. That external look is also going to provide more clarity. Of course, I would like to highlight this in the direction of Mrs Leijten and towards the House of Representatives, the Tax Administration will fully and fully cooperate in this. The Secretary of State, I must say to Mrs Leijten, will also shortly send a letter explaining the use of nationality in the Tax Administration/Applications. Mr. Chairman. The last point I would like to make, which I believe also affects the substance of the matter that Mrs Leijten is touching here, is the following. A great deal has already been exchanged on CAF-11, but I think and the Secretary of State also thinks that we should do something more at the heart of a letter. Therefore, the Secretary of State intends to set up an advisory committee in full width to look at the implementation by the Tax Administration/Applications. That committee will have to look at 1. the consequences of the recent rulings of the Council of State, 2. the action of the Tax Administration/Applications in other cases where there might be suspicions of organised abuse and 3. the practical legal protection of citizens..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Secretary of State had already planned this, but it is quite clear that the problem as discussed today will also have to be taken into account below.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-2.u5	I think the Minister is right to point out that there have been major mistakes and rightly so a little humility. But what I don't understand is that the journalists from Trouw and RTL who are doing this have to ask their question on demand and that ultimately the answer is: yes, we can't rule it out. Shouldn't a tax administration be able to rule out the fact that you select from people's backgrounds? That's gotta be doable, right? Is in all those investigations that are being done... Is there even... If the Tax Office itself cannot rule it out, how can you cooperate with an investigation of the Ombudsman or the Personal Data Authority in all openness? I'd like to know. A committee in full width is beautiful and we will discuss it. We'll also look at what assignment she gets and see if it's sharp enough. But what are we gonna do with the 13 cases that are still going on? It's expensive. More than a ton of money is spent by the tax authorities. Stop it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-2.u6	I have heard Mrs Leijten very clearly on a number of points. I hear from her that she wants to know exactly what the assignment is for each of the categories I mentioned just now. I understand that very well from her point of view. I'll ask the Secretary of State to take that in the direction of the Chamber. As far as these matters are concerned, of course, you always apply current law and case law. For me, I hope Mrs Leijten will understand that, and I hope that Mrs Leijten will understand that, too, it is a little complicated to make a commitment or a ruling on this matter on the spot, because these are ongoing legal proceedings. I think it is really pure and prudent not to interfere in Question Time as a member of the cabinet. However, I will point out once again to the Secretary of State that these matters have the special interest of the Chamber, also in the light of the wider dilemma/problem we are discussing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-2.u7	These aren't lawsuits that the government interferes with, but they're lawsuits that the government conducts. And over and over and over again, the Council of State says it's not right. After two years, the Tax Administration itself has said this way of doing things: this way of doing things is not right. Then why is it so difficult to say: we stop this fight?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-2.u8	I am trying to explain the temperature of feeling on the cabinet side, I am trying to explain what steps we think we should take and I am also trying to explain how extremely annoying this is for a group of citizens. I can also, of course, convey Mrs Leijten's comments and request to the Secretary of State, but I hope that she too will understand that I do not think it is happy, nor prudent, to make far-reaching statements here in Question Time on legal matters, which I cannot judge in any way myself. I hope she understands that I will personally link the entire debate back to the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs. He is currently abroad, but I cannot make a commitment here at the moment with regard to the current legal proceedings.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-2.u9	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-2.u10	The victims are now trapped in a new bureaucratic mill. They get €500 for every six months that their objection has been dealt late, but they are not compensated for the damage they have suffered from the behaviour of the Tax Administration. Now they get an official interview, then a meeting with the Secretary of State and thirteen people still have to come before the bench. Then you can humbly admit here that the tax authorities did it wrong, but then it's nothing. Then it's actually not worth anything. I appeal to this minister, the head of the ministry, to stop these lawsuits. Show me you're gonna take your loss, or else you're gonna get it from the Council of State. Then it costs way too much money and those people are still being hunted down.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-2.u11	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-2.u12	Still, Mr. Chairman. I think it's important to mark that. The Secretary of State informed me earlier and has already discussed this committee in the Council of Ministers for this weekend. It is going to look at just some of the things that are touching this debate. He's just gonna look at those recent statements from the Council of State. It is precisely going to look at how the Tax Administration should want to deal with cases of, once again, suspicions of organised abuse, which will also look in particular at the practical legal protection of citizens. That, of course, concerns Mrs Leijten's point. I think that's the proper order.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-2.u13	Thank you very much, Mrs Leijten. Then I will go to Mr Nijboer on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-2.u14	Mr. Chairman. Honesty commands me to say that I must make every effort to keep up with all the incidents of this cabinet over the last few days: today there were the students, the Secretary of State for Justice and Security more or less announces his resignation via the media, I just heard and yesterday we were informed of this discrimination by the Tax Administration. That's a hell of a scandal. That's what the Minister said. He just reported it. I only have one question. Will the people who have been discriminated against, who have suffered from this, be properly compensated and treated within a few months? They've been waiting for years. Is that what the Secretary of State's gonna do?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-2.u15	I understand Mr Nijboer's question very well, but I also tried to formulate exactly what happened, what is happening here and how we want to deal with it. I really hope that Mr Nijboer will understand this as well about the cases that Mrs Leijten is describing or that the current lawsuit is taking a decision. I'm gonna have to be briefed on that. I was invited to Question Time this morning. I'm trying to explain how the cabinet wants to deal with this. I will take this debate and its outcome back with the Secretary of State. But I would like to ask the Chamber to allow me some time in that, because I simply cannot give it up here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-2.u16	This has been going on for some time. Countless families have been hit by a government that shows itself on its worst side. Increases shall be recovered. The new thing is, however, that people's background played a role in risk selection. These people have lost faith in society. These people have lost faith in the government. These are people, Dutch fathers and mothers, who do their utmost to be part of Dutch society...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-2.u17	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-2.u18	...and they're being hit now. I have only one question: what is the answer of this minister to these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-2.u19	I repeat what I started. The Secretary of State has explicitly apologized to the Chamber, and in particular to these people for the way this has been done. He did that here, and in other places. I have just said that I would like to emphasise this wholeheartedly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-2.u20	A year and a half ago, the DENK Group asked: is it ethnically profiled by the Tax Administration? In other words, in plain Dutch: is there discrimination? That was a bit of cursing in the church at the time: you don't say that, because at the Tax Office we work neatly and we don't look at the origins. Through Trouw and RTL publications, we saw yesterday that this is indeed happening. Is the Minister prepared to investigate where even more nationality plays a role within the Tax Administration which leads to heavier sanctions or investigations?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-2.u21	For the record, we will definitely look into this in detail. In this connection, it is important to distinguish between, on the one hand, the applications for the surcharges and, on the other hand, these two specific cases. These two specific cases concern a suspicion of organised abuse. And one of them is one of those CAF cases, which Mr Omtzigt also calls for a lot of attention. But of course we will do so in full width and depth, and we will also inform the Chamber about it. And again, I think I have been crystal clear about what I think and what the cabinet thinks of ethnic profiling: we reject any form of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-2.u22	Mr Azarkan asks a second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-2.u23	May I conclude, then, that the Minister himself is going to investigate to what extent ethnic profiling is applied within the Tax Administration?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-2.u24	I'd still like to hang on to the words I just used. I have tried to distinguish between the two categories. We will examine what has happened there, to what extent nationality has played a role in this, what criteria are being used at all. Let me say, for the record, that risk criteria are also being used, and we will all say: they are perfectly logical. Let me give you one example. For example, the application will examine in the automatic assessment how far a family lives from the nursery or childcare provided by the parents. That's one of the risk criteria. I thought that, when it was explained to me this morning, was a logical criterion, because I understand that in that system the indicator goes up if it is more than 100 kilometers. But I think Mr Azarkan wants to make sure that there are no things that are not objective. That brings me back to what I just said to Mrs Leijten. The example I just gave, I think, is something that is objectivable. Ethnic profiling is not objectivable and we do not want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-2.u25	Mr. Chairman. In 2017, there is a destructive report from the National Ombudsman. He says, "Compensate those parents." In 2018, the Tax Administration is convicted in this file for withholding documents from the parents so that they can't get them to court. In 2019, the Council of State is cutting edge to the Tax Administration: pay! The Children's Ombudsman is very tough. Then a committee will be set up to look only at the consequences of the recent ruling by the Council of State. Why is the Ombudsman's report from a year and a half ago held in a drawer and even now kept out of commission for a year and a half?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-2.u26	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-2.u27	I have a question for the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-2.u28	You just put it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-2.u29	Does he want to split up that commission? On the one hand, I want a committee to look deeply into these CAF matters. This must be done externally by the Tax Administration, because people in the Tax Administration have withheld documents, have not complied with the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-2.u30	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-2.u31	And a second investigation...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-2.u32	No, Mr. Ommzigt. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-2.u33	Frankly, I would ask Mr Omtzigt to repeat his question. He's asking a few questions, and I'd like to answer exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-2.u34	Mr President,......................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-2.u35	No, you have to answer the questions that Mr Omtzigt has just asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-2.u36	I don't have it often, but I almost lost my way because of the accumulation of questions. Then let me put it this way. When I understand that Mr Omtzigt says 'I want this to happen externally and I want the CAF issues to be looked at externally, whether or not by this committee', my answer is: yes, I say that to him. But I just want to make sure that I understood that correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-2.u37	Mr. Ommzigt, you can explain the questions. But if you ask new questions, that's it and you don't have any more questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-2.u38	Then I come to a painful observation about the functioning of our democracy, because this case has been dealt with by the Ombudsman, the Council of State and the Supreme Court, and we are still here a year and a half later. That's why this question takes a little longer: our institutions are failing here. The problem is not that a mistake is made with the Tax Administration but that it is not corrected.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-2.u39	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-2.u40	The question was: is this committee external? So no one from the IRS is allowed in, no one involved at all. And another question: can you split the assignment? Because there was a general question from the Chamber which said that it wanted to talk about the practical legal protection of citizens. That is a broader issue, but we need to investigate these CAF cases, because there is much more going on there than has now been the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-2.u41	Mr Omtzigt's question is whether the research is external. Absolutely, the investigation is external. By the way, Mr Omtzig knows that better than I do, but the ADR is already looking at CAF matters. That also seems to me to be external. The ADR, of course, falls within the scope of the Ministry of Finance, but my experience is that there is a clear view of what is happening in other areas, including finance. I think we can call that external, but we will also include others, from outside our organisation, in that committee. In the short term, the Secretary of State will also come back to the Chamber on who will chair the committee. But I can't say for sure yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-2.u42	Last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-2.u43	Thank you for the commitment that this committee will be external. That's very important. The Tax Administration itself cannot do so, because those documents have been withheld and because more needs to be investigated. Can the Minister promise that this other piece, the document on practical legal protection, will be dealt with quietly, and perhaps by another committee? Because that doesn't just play here. There are many more things in the Tax Administration, where we citizens have great difficulty in correcting a mistake, think of the Tax Administration/Applications, Customs or whatever.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-2.u44	I hesitate there, purely because I would have to take back what the Secretary of State has already decided and exchanged. In my view, it would be a good idea to do it in the order I have just promised Mrs Leijten, namely to have the Secretary of State inform the Chamber of what he intends to have examined by this committee. If the need exists in Parliament to split it up, then I think that is a logical moment. Then there is the second thing I would like to say to Mr Omtzig. He was right to say that this has a history of reports and statements by the Council of State and the Ombudsman. I interpret his words in this way: that is, of course, the colour bath in which the investigation of this independent external committee should lie. That's exactly what they're going to take into account. It was not Mr Omtzigt's question, but I think he meant it implicitly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-2.u45	A number of colleagues have just rightly asked questions about the handling of a number of individual cases, in which many people are involved. I would like to ask the question about the principle. For D66 it is clear that people of dual nationality are never and never treated by the government other than those of Dutch nationality. Can the Minister guarantee that? And is he willing to look at this in depth internally, so that, apart from the committee that deals with these matters, we simply know that our Tax Service does not distinguish between people of Dutch nationality and those of Dutch and other nationality in the performance of its task?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-2.u46	For the record, I have just indicated that the cabinet does not want ethnically profiled in any way. I have also just tried to indicate how a distinction is made when applying for the allowances, the first part of which is automated. At the time when there are certain risks, I have just one marked "T" and then there will be a manual check. Those so-called organised abuse cases always look at them on the basis of a signal. So I say to Mr Van Weyenberg: there is no such question at the front either. But I would like to get to the bottom of this in all the details, including with regard to nationality, because I do not want to give an answer now that the Secretary of State may have to withdraw at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-2.u47	Mr Van Weyenberg, your second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-2.u48	That was exactly my question. I want this to be sorted out very well, because they are complex questions. And it must be done carefully, because that distinction in a rule of law, in a democracy, would be unacceptable. So I want to make sure that it doesn't happen and that, should it happen, it is just being dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-2.u49	Okay. Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-2.u50	That is a fair question from Mr Van Weyenberg, because in response to the journalists, the Tax Administration has indicated that it is still working with lists in which other nationalities are kept alongside the Dutch. Does the Minister not agree that, at the time he is going to sort this out, he is also immediately sending a signal to the Tax Administration that these lists should no longer be used?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-2.u51	What I know at the moment is that in the Basic Registration Persons up to a few years ago, I believe until 2014 or 2016, the dual nationality was registered and that is no longer being done today. So the Tax Administration also gets new data from people who are born, or who become Dutch, in which that is no longer included. But I cannot do so, and that is precisely the question that I have just tried to answer in the direction of Mr Van Weyenberg, for everything that has happened in the past, to exclude the fact that nationality has been looked at at times. Nor can I say now that, if nationality had been looked at, it would have been inauspicious in all cases. That is the next question. I do know that the BRP is no longer registering at this time, so there is currently no new data coming to us. Because, as I understand it this morning from the Tax Administration, we don't have that kind of information about people who are new to it, who are born or become Dutch. I'd like to put it mildly. That is how I think I understood it this morning, but that too should be part of that research question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-2.u52	Mrs Leijten, your last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-2.u53	If you're entitled to a supplement, and you're cheating on it, it doesn't matter what your origin is. Then the IRS must act. And that's what the minister actually says. But now we know the IRS is still working with old lists. In doing so, they see this origin as relevant, whereas it is never relevant; the fraud is relevant. Can the Minister promise that he will not use those lists on which that still stands, or that he will tell the tax authorities that we are no longer using them?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-2.u54	I fully agree with the first part of what Mrs Leijten says. 'Cause what's the big inconvenience here? That is that we all think it is logical to look at it on the basis of objective criteria, and then, if there is abuse, we want someone to be treated hard, regardless of nationality or background. I think we are in complete agreement on that. Mrs Leijten is now asking about those lists. I really should find out. All I know is that the Basic Registration has been modified and that the Basic Registration doesn't register that anymore. But again, that's my understanding right now. I can't look in all the corners of the department and pour ready-made wine about it now. But we'll take it with us in the investigation and report back to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-2.u55	Thank you.
