ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u1	Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van Dam on behalf of the CDA for his question to the Minister for Defence, who is replacing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The question is about the message that the Kingdom, under the supervision of the Council of Europe, is in favour of human rights violations. Mr Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This weekend, I read the papers and the clipping papers. I wouldn't have been the only one to do that. Then you browse right through there, and my eye fell on an article in an Antillean newspaper. It stated that the Kingdom of the Netherlands was placed under the supervision of the Council of Europe. This is called Enhanced Supervision, a kind of enhanced supervision with strict reporting periods and that in connection with the detention situation in Saint Martin, in particular the detention conditions there at the police station. I've requested the list of countries under enhanced supervision. I've got it right here. With number 1 on that list, Russia, followed by Ukraine, Turkey, Poland, Romania and so on. All fantastic countries, but countries struggling to achieve a certain minimum of the rule of law. That is what we are now standing on, the Kingdom of the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. How is this possible? Why are we on that list? What can the government, including the Kingdom Government, do to get rid of that list? What does "enhanced supervision" actually mean? And why do I have to read in the paper that we're on that list? Would it not have seemed appropriate for the government to inform the Chamber itself about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u3	I now give the floor to the Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u4	Mr. Chairman. I am replacing my colleague from the Foreign Office in this case. First of all, I need to explain the process. I actually know the process better than anyone else, because I also looked at it in 2010. The procedure is applied to the Kingdom, but it is about Saint Martin. It's about the police cells in the land of Saint Martin, which should be looked at. I have already published the same list in 2010, in my previous life as Secretary of State for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. Mr. Van Dam should take a look at that. At that time, the procedure concerned the Kingdom, because Saint Martin was still otherwise dressed. But now it's about the land of Saint Martin. The cabinet has certainly taken note of the ruling of the European Court of Human Rights, because that is what it is about in the end. The Kingdom is addressed, but that does not mean that the Netherlands is responsible for Sint-Maarten. We do not accept that responsibility either. This is about the police cells in Philipsburg. I've looked at these police cells myself on a regular basis, and I really need to do something about that. That is undoubtedly true. Sint-Maarten must do something about this and must have a plan of action. Sint-Maarten has also made an action plan. Foreign Affairs must pass that on to the Council of Ministers in Europe. They passed it on. So the action plan was made by Saint Martin. Last week my colleagues Dekker and Knops also looked at the police cells on St.Maarten. If necessary, the Netherlands will provide assistance. But it is primarily the task of St.Maarten to do something about it. Mr. Chairman. The answer to the question why this has not been actively reported, I must remain guilty. I don't know right now. I fully agree that the Kingdom is not a country to be included on that list. But I have no doubt that Saint Martin has to take his responsibility. Sint-Maarten must ensure that these cells are refurbished and that there are decent conditions there, because the human rights situation is simply not good. There's no misunderstanding about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u5	We have had regular debates in this Chamber recently on the situation in Saint Martin and on those cells. I know that not only the Minister for Legal Protection, but also the Secretary of State for the Interior was there last week. I know that even separate cells will be transported from the Netherlands. But that is without prejudice to the fact that with this statement by the Council of Ministers, the dual position we have in this regard is once again emerging. I was in Strasbourg myself the other day. In a European context, there is really no distinction between Sint-Maarten and the Netherlands. We, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, are called upon to do so. If at other times we criticize what is happening in Poland, Romania or anywhere else, then there is really no idea in Poland or Romania: gosh, we are going to make a nuanced distinction between the Netherlands and Saint Martin. At the same time, when we ask ourselves what the Netherlands is, what Sint-Maarten is and what that is. I think that with this statement, the urgency to show, in a European context too, that we are getting back on track has once again been given. I would like to know from the cabinet what it is going to do about it in this specific situation. Does this statement, in addition to what you have already reported and what has already happened, give rise to additional efforts?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u6	I largely agree with what Mr Van Dam said about the position of the Kingdom on such a list. That's just not right; there's no misunderstanding about that. On 9 April an action plan was sent to the Committee of Ministers on behalf of St Maarten. That Committee of Ministers will assess the action plan. Only when there is insufficient progress to improve detention conditions will it be discussed. It is therefore a matter of actual claims that must be made. Sint-Maarten is responsible for this in the first instance. But I have already told you that colleagues also said last week that if assistance is needed, it will be provided. As I understand it now, I am replacing my fellow Members here now that there are already active steps being taken. For the sake of fairness, however, I have seen this many times in the past, also in a previous responsibility, and that these were really mouse steps. In fact, a big step is needed to make real improvements. I will pass it on to my fellow Members, both to the Minister for Legal Protection, who I believe is called '...'.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u7	Before legal protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u8	... before Legal Protection, Chairman, as to the Secretary of State for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, however urgent here in the Chamber is felt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u9	Finally, Mr Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u10	Finally, Mr President. Very briefly. For a big step, you need great urgency. In any case, I hope that this matter-of-fact placement will contribute to that great urgency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-6.u11	Thank you, Mr. Van Dam. Thanks to the Secretary of Defense, too. This brings us to the end of oral Question Time. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments. Then we'll vote.
