ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-4.u1	The next item is Mrs Becker's question on the shocking figures of asylum policy in the last five years. I would like to welcome our new Secretary of State for Justice and Security. It'll take some getting used to. It's the first time you've been in "K." We know each other in a different capacity. It's also a bit of getting used to for me, but welcome! I call Mrs Becker, on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-4.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I, too, welcome the Secretary of State to our Parliament and wish her every success with perhaps the most important portfolio of our time, Migration and Asylum. Mr. Chairman. In five years' time, 10,000 times we have not been able to expel asylum seekers who have been tried, we read yesterday in De Telegraaf. From safe countries such as Morocco and Algeria, but also from Côte d'Ivoire and Ghana, the Netherlands was told no more than 2,000 times. Worse still, over 8,000 times there was no response at all. This is unacceptable. People who have gone through the careful procedure and do not meet the conditions for being allowed to stay here must return to where they come from. Two weeks ago, the Van Zwol Committee concluded that almost everyone who wants to go back can also go back, but that the problem is that part of it does not want to go back and refuses to cooperate, despite the fact that the Netherlands regulates everything for them, such as a refund of the plane ticket and money for reintegration into the home country. Then put these people on the plane, you'd say. That is exactly what needs to be done, but then we need that country of origin to provide a laissez-passer. Those countries therefore systematically refuse and do not take the Netherlands seriously. We therefore agreed in the government agreement that the cabinet should make arrangements with those countries and not only use positive but also negative incentives, such as providing or withholding development money, granting or refusing visas for residents or granting or withdrawing landing rights from flights from our country. How are we doing with this? That's how I'm asking the Secretary of State. How many agreements has the government so far dealt with these countries and how often have they been used? Is the Secretary of State prepared to speak to these countries as soon as possible and to offer these hard resources more often? And does it not only want to do this as the Netherlands, but also advocate it in the EU? For example, a country such as Côte d'Ivoire will receive 308 million European development aid. At least attach this to the condition that Côte d'Ivoire cooperates on return. I hope the Secretary of State is prepared to get to work on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-4.u3	I shall now give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks for your welcome, too. It is indeed a completely different setting in which I suddenly find myself. But as I have said, it is not a simple portfolio, but I am working on it with enthusiasm. Thank you for your questions, Mrs Becker. It is indeed unacceptable, as you say, that 10,000 times it has not been possible to get someone back. You say that people have to go back, but the countries are not cooperating, and an agreement has been reached on this in the coalition agreement. It is true that there is a hard work on agreements with countries to ensure that people can return. I am very much in favour of that. If necessary, strong and gentle incentives should be used. It cannot be the case that a country on the one hand receives a lot of money for any activity and, at the same time, refuses to take people back. A High Authority Task Force on Migration has been set up for this, but cooperation in the Cabinet is of course needed. It is not something the Secretary of State for Justice and Security can do alone, but it is something that needs to be done together with SZW, Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation and Foreign Affairs, in short, a cabinet-wide cooperation. I'm not saying this to keep everyone at bay, but it's absolutely necessary. If there is a need for me to make even more efforts to do so by visiting countries and making visits to discuss them, I am very willing to do so. I would like to say that the Return and Departure Service also concludes bilateral agreements with a number of countries for readmission and readmission. There's a whole row of countries they have those appointments with. They work, but that is without prejudice to the fact that in a lot of cases it does not work and that there are countries that refuse to cooperate. I would like to promise you that after the summer you will report on this matter. It is not only you who have said that it must be worked very hard; I say that too, and it is also in the coalition agreement. Van Zwol's report, which has appeared quite recently, also recommends that more should be devoted to return and departure. Once again, if I can help to ensure that, not only in the cabinet-wide cooperation, but also by visiting certain countries themselves to see if I can get them to cooperate, then I do not hesitate to do so. I really need to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-4.u5	I am glad that the Secretary of State says that she wants to give priority to this and that she wants to intervene personally. It undertakes to send the progress to the Chamber in the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-4.u6	After the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-4.u7	Sorry, after the summer. I would like to know whether she can make it clear how often these tough measures have been implemented, and whether the time has come for us to start using them. Maybe she can go into that in the report. The VVD seems clear that this is necessary. I would also like to ask whether the Secretary of State is prepared to send the figures, as we had to read yesterday in De Telegraaf, to the Chamber. I would also like to know from the Secretary of State what else she can do to speed up forced return. I read that Norway, for example, has special employees at embassies, who are fully involved in the return process in the countries of origin which are difficult to cooperate with. Is the Secretary of State prepared to discuss the option of doing this as well as the Netherlands with her Foreign Affairs colleague and see if we can use this? I would also like to ask the Secretary of State. A great deal has been said about how European regulation sometimes gets in the way of people returning. For example, we cannot always evict a country in the region, unlike the country of origin, because there must be a special link to it. As a VVD, we believe that this could perhaps be extended. What does the Secretary of State think about that? Finally, Mr President. For the VVD it is clear that the persistent problems we see, such as nuisance, abuse or refusing to leave the Netherlands, show that the Dutch asylum system has to be fundamentally different. In doing so, people should no longer come all the way to Europe to apply for asylum, but should, as far as possible, hear whether they are entitled to asylum in a safe country in the region. The Netherlands could only allow limited numbers of refugees to arrive temporarily on invitation. They can only stay if they participate in a positive way. That is why we need these countries to participate in reception in the region: agreements with African countries. I hope that the Secretary of State can take those steps, that she often wants to get on the plane, make agreements with those countries and really want to make them a priority in her policy. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-4.u8	Mr. Chairman. A number of questions have been asked, first of all about the figures. Of course, the figures given to De Telegraaf also go to your Chamber. There's no doubt about that. Then there is the example of Norway mentioned by Mrs Becker. I have to tell you, I've taken note of that through the paper. It's an attractive option. It does indeed sound good to have people on the diplomatic mission in the various countries who are involved in this. I have to say, however, that there are European liaison officers. The Netherlands also uses this. Something is being done in this respect. We also use our diplomatic posts, but that is something other than what Norway does in the posts, as Mrs Becker mentioned. They have special people who are involved in this. I think it would be a good idea for me to look into that and discuss it with the Foreign Minister. I think I can certainly take that point in the report that I promised Mrs Becker after the summer recess, as far as I can say about it. Well, let's talk about bonding. This is being considered in the context of the review of the Procedural Directive. I must tell you that, unfortunately, this is slowing down at the moment, pending the new European Commission. However, I would like, and I say this very clearly to Mrs Becker, to broaden that concept. So, for my part, they're working hard on that. Finally, reception in the region. Mrs. Becker's almost set my itinerary. It's pretty much a plane on, plane off. Reception in the region is indeed important, with safe countries that can take care of it. Frankly, it has proved difficult to do so in a European context, because every country has a different list. That doesn't make it that easy. We do have a lot of support for many organisations that provide care and quality, such as the UNHCR, because we believe they should be of high quality. I'm trying to visit countries to make sure they take people back, and this way I want to talk to countries to see if there can be shelter in the region.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-4.u9	Thank you, Mrs Becker. Then I give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-4.u10	First of all, much joy, wisdom and blessing to the Secretary of State in fulfilling this fascinating task... The emotions are getting too big for some colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-4.u11	That was Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-4.u12	I imagine she's so compassionate; thank you very much. I can tell the Secretary of State that she is very willing to deal with this problem. This problem has been going on for a long time, at least since I took care of the file. But so far many of the measures I hear the Secretary of State have actually been in vain. What will the Secretary of State be the first to do to make the expulsion policy a success?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-4.u13	First of all, I'm gonna make sure I'm really good at it. You don't have to think I need a year to do that. I'm gonna do that real fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-4.u14	Next week?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-4.u15	Maybe tomorrow; no, let's not joke. But that's the first thing that matters. I really intended to do that. I have a mission in this. It's a tricky wallet. It is also very difficult that there are constantly pieces in the press about nuisance or people who do not want to go back; you name it. I believe that from my point of view I must ensure that we can present and maintain a policy of this kind for the Dutch citizens, so that we can say: okay, we are working hard on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-4.u16	Your second question, Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-4.u17	I appreciate the intentions very much. Only, I would like to hear concrete steps for this week, or for next week, so that we get the following week the message that ten have been deported, which did not succeed earlier but then. What's the Secretary of State gonna do? You see, we look forward to your strength.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-4.u18	I understand. If you think I'm going to get on a plane straight away tomorrow, I don't know which countries are in a row, then I don't have a concrete outcome yet, but I have taken a concrete step. I'd be happy to take those steps as soon as possible, but right now, I want to get exactly where the big leak is. Van Zwol's report really helps me with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-4.u19	Of course, I would also like to welcome the new Secretary of State to this Chamber. I look forward to working well with her and wish her a great deal of wisdom. It is good that we are discussing this subject again, because when we see the figures, we really have to worry about our expansion policy. We have seen the example of Norway. I very much appreciate that the Secretary of State is going to do so, to see what we can learn from that. We have also put in place the lvv's, the rural amenities foreigners, by now. The Secretary of State sends a letter to the Chamber after the summer. Can she also mention the state of play with regard to the ITVs? Then we can see if we're gonna make a good shot there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-4.u20	I can give a very simple answer to that: yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-4.u21	Congratulations to the Secretary of State. When I hear Mrs Becker's harsh words about the predecessors of this Secretary of State, it promises to be interesting times on this dossier. I have a question. Many tough things have been said and the Secretary of State has promised a response to the Van Zwol report. I would also like an overview of what is real. What can we actually achieve with those countries that do not cooperate? Things are being said about visa policy, landing rights and OS policy, but what can we really do? Can the Secretary of State promise that the response will be accompanied by an annex containing the ten most important countries we want to send people back to, which is problematic, with the possibilities and also the unopportunities? In my opinion, then, as a Chamber, we really have an overview from which we can choose.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-4.u22	That sounds very attractive, but you must understand that it will ultimately require a huge diplomatic effort. It's not like we can go to a country and say, "Listen, friends, we're gonna give you some 100 million, but you're gonna have to take back ten people or 100 people and put that on a list or we're gonna do "tatatatata." The cooperation with the colleagues of SZW, Foreign Affairs and Development Cooperation is extremely important in order to do so in a very sensible way, because if we do not get the start right, it will not work at all. So I have promised you that we are going to work hard on it with firm and gentle incentives, but to give a list in the sense of "country A, these incentives, because otherwise" does not seem to me to be the right way to negotiate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-4.u23	It's nice to have the Secretary of State in our midst today. Of course, there are also very clear negative incentives in the Netherlands that can help to ensure that people want to leave. May I ask the Secretary of State to extend it as far as possible? Because if people know they're gonna be behind a closed door if they don't behave, they might also have a much less tendency to do so in the Netherlands. Will the Secretary of State please take that point? I also have a very specific question, now that the other minister is present. I have asked the predecessor of this Secretary of State to pay particular attention to the Jezidis that are now being sent back to camps where they are unsafe. May I ask you to pay particular attention to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-4.u24	To deal with the latter, the Jezidis, there is a great deal of attention being paid to that. You don't have to worry about that. As regards return and departure and making it unattractive to be in the Netherlands, I think it is indeed necessary to look up the margins. Of course, it has to be legally correct. It doesn't have to be very nasty either, but you can make sure it's sober, sober and sober.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-4.u25	This is the first time that we are discussing migration issues with the new Secretary of State and, frankly, I do not like it at all. I hear a fainting tone. I hear time. She needs all summer and she might want to come back after the summer with a report and so on. This is about the biggest scandal of the past few years: 10,000 people who should have just left don't leave. Why can't I hear you say that this should have happened yesterday, I'm going to clean up, I'm going to put people in jail if they don't leave voluntarily and, indeed, threaten to withdraw landing rights from countries that don't take back people and stop development aid and all forms of financial transfers? We're a very strong country that can all do things, aren't we? Hit the table with your fist. Show, also to the Chamber and also to the people in the Netherlands, that you really want to take this forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-4.u26	It sounds very tough what Mr Baudet says. I don't intend to operate slowly at all. What I said clearly is that we are in a legal system. We are a rule of law. I would like to look at the limits of what we can, as I have already said to Mrs Van Toorenburg. That's the system I'm in. In order to satisfy Mr Baudet, 'festina spring' applies to important matters such as this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-4.u27	I also see Mr Hiddema on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-4.u28	I usually agree with my political leader and then you have the danger of overlap, but I also came to welcome the lady. I'm glad we have another Secretary of State; at least we'll have someone to talk to. Mrs. Bekker was just standing there. She has asked you about developments within the Ministry towards safe countries. She has asked what possible sanctions have been discussed with these countries so far. You just got here. You're, I think, shocked by that 10,000 figure. I can imagine that you have already had an impression of how it could have come to this. We have been kept happy with the message for years: we are going to talk to Morocco and Algeria. I'm just calling it a cross street. Mrs Bekker just asked you: what was discussed there? What specific sanctions have been discussed with these countries? Simply put, what has been done in this direction?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-4.u29	I have already said that this calls for government-wide cooperation, with strong and gentle incentives. It can't be that the Secretary of State for Justice and Security goes to Morocco and says, "I'll take your landing rights if you don't take those people back." It is a cabinet-wide approach and the High Office Task Force migration has been established for that purpose. He's working hard on that, but I'm gonna work really hard on that, too, with my colleagues. That's my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-4.u30	Mr. Hiddema, every group is entitled to two questions. They have now been drafted by the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-4.u31	It is understandable that the Secretary of State says that she is not going to put all possible sanctions on the table in one go. That wouldn't be wise. But it might be good to point out to the Secretary of State that we have been working on this for two years. The question is, when are we gonna run out of patience? I would ask the Secretary of State to take this into account in her reflections in the cabinet-wide response to sanctions to specific countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-4.u32	I understand very well what Mr. Van Wijngaarden says. The feeling he's got, we've been dealing with this for two years, and what are we getting at? A lot of people crawl, including me. I have already promised it to Mrs Bekker and others: I am working hard on it. Oh, the chair is going up; how interesting! What I want to say is that you can really rely on me to do my utmost to solve the problems that exist, because in the end we have to ensure that we in the Netherlands deal with them in a good way, so that everyone says: it is indeed a problem, but we have it in order. We must ensure that the questions that appear in the newspapers do not appear again. That's my bet. I can't promise it all once and for all. It's an effort commitment; I can't promise a commitment to results.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-18-tweedekamer-4.u33	Thank you.
