ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u1	The next item is the presentation of the budget for 2020. I give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u2	"My Lords! As a result of the King's authorization, I have the honour to present the drafts of general budgeting laws for the coming year of service. I would like to summarize my impression of the way in which resources are being used, which, fortunately, is still generally a gradual one, but that the times in which revenue has gone forward with no increase in taxes are for the time being behind us." Mr. Chairman. Nowadays we speak in this Chamber through you. When this text was first spoken, there were only men in this room. This is the text of the very first speech in the presentation of the State budget. He then spoke Theodoor Herman de Meester in September 1905. In this speech he discussed the budget about what was then called the year of service 1906. In doing so, he began the tradition of offering the budget to you and the Chamber by means of a speech during Prince's Day. It's an honor and a pleasure to be able to do that to you today. I would like to take you briefly to the Netherlands of 1906. The family novel of Louis Couperus, titled Old Men, the things that pass by... is published for the first time as a book. A reference to the irrevocable progression of time. There is no democracy in 1906 or social security. Yes, in those years, our country knows, compared to abroad, relative freedom of expression, religion and equality between men and women, but in no way to the extent and manner as we know it today. In the year 1906 Theodoor the Master is both Minister of Finance and Chairman of the Council of Ministers. He serves within the so-called "kabinet van kreakporselein," an unstable cabinet, because it does not have a fixed majority in parliament and has to lean on tolerance. Mr. Chairman. One of the things that is directly apparent in the 1906 budget is that 'the multiple costs which the establishment of a separate department of agriculture will incur will amount to some 100 000 guilders'. As you know, this is not the last time we see the cost of setting up the Ministry of Agriculture on the budget. It is sometimes said that history repeats itself. The budget for 1906 was still about a total of 181.714,219 guilders and, to be precise, 95 cents; today the actual total expenditure is just over EUR 300 billion. Total public expenditure in 1906 accounted for 11% of gross domestic product, which is now 43%. Mr. Chairman. The irrevocable passing of time. Let's go back to today. We are in economically changing times. In countries around us, economic growth is falling and is even at risk of shrinking. International trade tensions create persistent uncertainty, and the Brexit is at the door. But despite the unrest in the world around us, the Dutch economy is still showing itself to be robust. Yes, after years of high tide, economic growth is falling slightly, but with 1.8% this year and 1.5% by 2020, we still see growth rates that are normal for our country. Employment is also unparalleled. Many people who were looking for work on a daily basis not so long ago are now going to work on a daily basis. That's good for many. But I also like to quote Couperus' words: "Surely, the best thing is to keep rocking in the lust of memories. But this is not how one lives, so one dumbs in thoughtlessly." Mr. Chairman. This cabinet does not want to sit back, but continues to work unabated on the line it has set out within the coalition agreement. That is why the cabinet wants to continue investing in society, and we are making extra money, on top of the government agreement, for youth care, affordable housing and defence. In addition, we are taking additional measures to reduce the burden on households. In addition to the previous measures of the Cabinet, this Millions Note provides structuralally 3 billion lower burdens for citizens. In doing so, we will ensure that households, especially workers, benefit more from welfare growth. We also want to address the increasing uncertainty in the labour market and thus make the balance between employees and the self-employed more balanced. One of the steps we are taking here is to reduce the burden on workers vis-à-vis the self-employed in order to bring these two situations more into line. In addition to these and other measures in the relatively short term, we naturally also pay attention to the long term. The Climate and Pension Agreement has taken important steps towards a sustainable Netherlands and a pension system for the future. These are agreements which we will continue to work on in the near future. Mr. Chairman. The irrevocable passing of time. Of course, no one here can predict exactly what our world will look like in 30 to 40 years' time. However, we can identify several challenges ahead of us, for society. Major changes mean that our society and our economy will look very different in the future. The way we make our money together will also change. We are more often confronted with new technologies, such as artificial intelligence, algorithms and biotechnology, which will determine our way of working and living. In addition, the ageing population is increasing. Productivity is growing less rapidly and, at the same time, more demand for care and social security, among other things, makes collective spending higher rather than lower. And that puts pressure on the earning capacity of the Netherlands, especially in the long term. And there's one more thing. The current interest rate rate is unprecedentedly low and historically unprecedented. This is complicated for savers, which is complicated for pension funds, but at the same time offers opportunities for investing in sustainable economic growth. Investment in research and development, knowledge development and infrastructure, among others, will be of great importance in order to meet the challenges facing us in the coming decades. That is why, in the short term, we are working out the details of a fund that provides food for sensible investment for economic growth, especially in the long term. In the coming period, we will agree on the exact criteria and governance to ensure that investments actually benefit long-term earning capacity. Mr. Chairman. As politicians, we contribute, among other things, to the frameworks within which we can shape the future through this Millions Note. Not Theodoor the Master, but his admired namesake Theodore Roosevelt once said to a room citizens: "The government belongs to everyone, to you, to me, to all of us." The shaping of the future is not a task for the cabinet or for politics alone. On the contrary, shaping the future is done by you, by me and by the Netherlands as a whole. As taxpayers' money is not political but citizen's money, this Millions note is clearly also for all of us, for all of us. What I am convinced of is that this budget will take us all another step forward. With this Millions note, we are not only working on the prosperity of all of us here and today, but also on that of future generations. Mr. Chairman. I would like to offer you the Million Note 2020, and also the now almost traditional Blue Book, in the hope that you and your members will be able to take advantage of it just as quickly and as often as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-17-tweedekamer-2.u3	I would like to thank the Minister for Finance for offering the budget for 2020.
