ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-3.u1	The next item is the debate on the Act 34675, Amendment to the Environmental Management Act (removal of asbestos and products containing asbestos). I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and Water State to the Upper House.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-3.u2	I give the floor to Mr Earthema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is always nice to note that there are a lot of people in the room. We are talking today about an amendment to the Environmental Management Act, which will eventually lead to a ban on the availability of asbestos on 31 December 2024. This means, in concrete terms, that all roofs exposed to the outdoor air in the Netherlands must be asbestos-free by that date. So, before that date, asbestos must be removed from these tasks throughout the country and in the right way. Mr. Chairman. That is not an easy task. In the next five and a half years 80 million m2 of asbestos will have to be replaced on homes, farms, farms and sheds. And what about churches and other monumental buildings on which there may be asbestos slates? This brings with it a huge cost for these citizens and businesses. In the run-up to this plenary session, our group has received many reports from those who have sleepless nights of the financial concerns involved in this measure. Under the yoke of annual rising costs such as higher WWF, energy taxes, VAT increases and so on, many also get this. When it comes to a small shed, it is still to be seen, but a very large roof on a stable, a farm, a church or another monument costs tens of thousands of euros to replace. For example, at the hearing LTO informed the First Chamber members that a third of the farmers had indicated that they were unable to comply with this law, because they simply lacked resources. A revolver fund does not change this, because it also has to be repaid. This loan will be in addition to the already high level of costs that farmers have. I just wanted to say this about the costs first. Then there are the considerations that our group makes. We also see that this is about public health. Everyone knows asbestos is dangerous. I used to learn that as long as it's just lying there and you're not gonna drill and saw it, it doesn't hurt that much. Experts now say, however, that the weathering of asbestos roofs also threatens to spread these treacherous fibres. And what about fire? Even then, the fibres spread in the large perimeter and are difficult and only at very high cost to clean up. Insurance companies exclude these costs even in their policies and it is obvious that an asbestos roof reduces the value of your home. The removal of the potential danger to public health is, of course, also a great asset for our group, and it is therefore clear that asbestos must be removed from the roofs. The Secretary of State states in her memo of 16 May that it is now necessary to proceed and that that date will therefore be a fixed benchmark for her. 31 December 2024 is asbestos-free. It aims to clarify the situation for all stakeholders: owners, insurance companies, banks and local authorities. That sounds bold, but is it also feasible? In addition to the above-mentioned costs, it is doubtful whether this can be achieved in time. The establishment of a Housing Incentive Fund is likely to speed up the restructuring process. However, it remains a conversion of grant to a refundable loan and thus remains a millstone around the neck of many concerned. It's also meant for those with less weight, but that just makes the millstone heavier. Fortunately, I have also read that a differentiation is being applied in the coming AMvB. In plain Dutch: you're going to apply the asbestos cleaning when owners start renovating or remodeling their property. Does the Secretary of State wish to clarify this important point? In particular, will the Commission explain how it intends to frame and underpin this differentiation in order to avoid arbitrariness and ambiguity? Can the Commission comment immediately on the more efficient working methods which it has mentioned which increase the speed of recovery? While I am asking questions, Mr President, I might ask the following question. An evaluation period has been set up halfway through the coming restructuring period. In particular, this will be a test of whether the process is still on track. Secretary of State, can you indicate what the measures will be if the pace is not reached? You note that the ban is not being evaluated in itself and that the date is not being postponed backwards. What policy adjustments are you going to make? In the case of individual asbestos restructuring, the fixed procedure is that a risk inventory is made. I can imagine that it is necessary for one roof to be repaired immediately, but not yet. This depends in particular on the level of weathering. Isn't it a wise choice already to make policies and take them into an AMvB, so that you get a form of prioritization? Mr. Chairman. Let me make a comment on enforcement. Municipalities and provinces must implement this law. However, the VNG has already indicated that many municipalities lack the capacity to maintain. Some of them simply do not see the usefulness and necessity, adding that many municipalities are already terribly busy with various healthcare laws and the upcoming Environment Act. They're not even waiting for the asbestos decorating law. It will take another five and a half years, but does the Secretary of State think that there will be sufficient enforcement in the future? And how does that happen? Will the government impose administrative fines or even penalty charges on people and companies who do want to clean up but cannot pay it? In short, our group does see the need for asbestos remodelling. As in traffic, every victim is one too many for us. But there are still a lot of loose ends to this bill, which I hope will be clarified in this debate by the Secretary of State. In particular, the cost aspect is crucial for our group to consider whether to vote in favour or against. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr. Earthema. I give the floor to Mrs Klip.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-3.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Our esteemed colleague, Frank van Kappen, regularly emphasizes to the members of the VVD Group the five types of security that the State should monitor for its residents, namely: territorial security, economic security, environmental security, political stability and social stability. The role and responsibility of the public authorities in reducing the risks of asbestos to public health is therefore clear. As the documents show, an active source policy has been in place since the 1970s to reduce the dangers of asbestos to humans and their living environment. The Government's intention is to ban the possession of asbestos or products containing asbestos as roofing by 31 December 2024 at the latest, on the basis of the present amendment of the law. Two ministries are involved: Social Affairs and Employment with regard to the work safety removal of asbestos roofs and Infrastructure and Water State with regard to the source approach in the living environment. In dealing with this bill, the members of the VVD Group focus mainly on the intended AMvB for which this bill provides the legal basis. First of all, the members of the VVD Group would like to thank the Secretary of State of IenW for her comprehensive answer on behalf of the government of our questions. The answer to the question of where we are at the moment, I will try to formulate along the lines of five points: health risks, the market, the attitude of local authorities and other third parties, the financing and the scope for logical choices. But first, I have a question about the bill itself. In the reply to our question on page 1, the government states that it sees no reason at present to prohibit asbestos applications other than roofing. That is a temporary fact, however. A possible additional AMvB will be placed in design with the Second and First Chambers. Is the government prepared to first discuss with Parliament for other AMvBs under this law? And then my first point, the health risks. I have already said that since the 1970s there has been an active source policy in the Netherlands with regard to asbestos. In 2010, the Health Council concluded that asbestos is even more dangerous than expected. Follow-up research by TNO and RIVM indicates that after asbestos roads, asbestos roof cover is the largest source of fibre emissions to the environment. Recent research of February 2019 by TNO, the universities of Utrecht and Nijmegen and Crisislab, called Insights for Proportional Asbestos Policy, makes these conclusions very nuanced. The legally enforced pace of clean-up is considered unnecessary and the safety measures to be applied are considered excessive. The concentration of asbestos fibres in the air resulting from asbestos roofs with bonded fibres is even described as negligible in this most recent study. The GGD also nuanced the dangers of asbestos roofs to public health during the expert meeting in the First Chamber. The government raises questions on this point with the recent response of RIVM requested by it, namely that the February 2019 report does not give rise to any different thinking about the risks of roofing. In short, a confusing picture of contradictory scientific research. On 24 May we all received a letter from the Dutch Association for Medical Environmental Sciences, the NVMM; a well-read piece in which we advocate a sober and realistic approach to public health risks when finding asbestos. According to NVMM, the present legislative proposal does not provide for this either. The Secretary of State of I and M makes several comments in the note following the report we received on 16 May on the February 2019 report, such as on page 1, "incorrect information', on page 5, "the report was drawn up on the initiative and on behalf of the Aedes and Housing Corporations industry association', and on page 14, "no new scientific, data, new facts or new arguments have been put forward'. Question from the members of the VVD Group is what the Secretary of State says or wants to suggest. And then a little side jump. The logic of non-obligatory removal of façade plates, if you want to make legislation by then, because they would not defend, is also missing many. Rain almost always comes from aside in the Netherlands. My second point, the market. The relatively short period available for clean-up leads to market pressure and a shortage of certified asbestos repairers and roof innovators. The asbestos industry is almost entirely in control of the asbestos system. The industry determines its own high standards of working methods and certifications, and also monitors compliance. This does not create any incentive for capacity expansion and price reductions. This limited clean-up capacity combined with the thriving economy leads to substantial price increases, a higher risk of illegal cleaning and dumping and fines in case of failure to meet the deadline of 31-12-2024. These sounds have been reaching the members of the First Chamber for months. However, on page 3 of the note following the report, the government mentions the following. I quote: "Because of consistent communication about the impending ban, a momentum has been created which has increased the capacity in the market." The answer that everyone can get certified at a certification institution is also not supported by the sounds of society. Once for our contradictory sounds. There seems to be insufficient scope for process and technical innovations to date. The Secretary of State for SZW has indicated that it is necessary to examine whether more flexible regulations such as the use of cranes with an open work box, less intensive certification and the valuation of risk classes are possible. The reply of the Secretary of State of I and M states that open lifting boxes could be used in some complex situations as of 1 July 2019. But the point of less intensive certification doesn't seem to be affected yet. TNO's investigation into the re-evaluation of the risk classes does not appear to be completed until the end of 2019. Or, we ask, can the Secretary of State mention acceleration on these last two points? Thirdly, the attitude of the local authorities and other third parties. The government calls the possession of asbestos roofing a cost for the owner. That seems to be increasingly true. Many insurers limit their benefits in the event of damage to a certain amount. In addition, many insurers increasingly exclude asbestos roof cover from coverage in their policies. The Secretary of State states in her recent replies that it is predictable that there will be no insurance cover for asbestos roofing at all from 1 January 2025. Banks are less and less willing to offer attractive financing in the presence of asbestos. This reduces the value of asbestos roofed buildings and thus their salesability. Municipalities and sometimes provinces should maintain as competent authority on the basis of the duty of care under the Housing Act, which states that owners are obliged to ensure that the state of their building does not constitute a danger to health and safety. This also applies to the enforcement of a possible prohibition. However, after 2024 the VNG indicated that it would not be able to maintain it with asbestos roof owners who could not obtain a loan. Other municipalities are also calling the bell in view of the threatening problems for their inhabitants. The Secretary of State answers questions about this in answer that it will hardly be necessary to do so because there will be no more asbestos roofs. This seems to the members of my group to be a circular argument which does not bring the solution any closer. There are asbestos ambassadors, frontrunner provinces, an acceleration approach for the relief of the owners of particularly asbestos slates, an already exhausted subsidy scheme and an asbestos financing fund in the making from which loans can be granted. According to our information, far from all provinces and municipalities have already developed policies to take on a directing role and take care of residents. How many provinces, especially municipalities, have actually already taken on this role? My fourth point concerns funding. There was a grant scheme of EUR 75 million. Together with provinces, there was an incentive arrangement "sun for asbestos."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-3.u6	I would like to touch on Mr Klip's third point. I have not yet heard from the VVD Group about the letter from the asbestos ambassadors. I would like to get a response from Mrs Klip to that letter, which strongly encourages a ban on asbestos roofs by 31 December 2024. You can clearly see here that the local authorities, the provinces and a number of municipalities support the Secretary of State in her ambition. We'd like to hear a response from the VVD group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-3.u7	Yeah, I got that letter, of course. We've all received incredible numbers of letters. Those asbestos ambassadors do indeed support the Secretary of State's bill. There are more parties supporting the bill. But there are just as many, if not more, parties, but I didn't quite figure it out, which shows all kinds of objections. I do not mention all the letters we have received, but I am trying briefly to say that we are hearing contradictory noises on the five points I mention. It is up to us to get the right line in the end. I was at the funding, Madam President. A single market player, such as FrieslandCampina together with Essent, combines renovation with solar panels through a lease construction. As from 1 January 2019, asbestos roof cover shall be exempt from waste tax. On the other hand, we hear that many municipalities have significantly increased the cost of landfilling asbestos. There is a financing fund in the making with the contribution of the Focal Fund Housing, provinces, municipalities and the Ministry of IenW, intended for owners who are not eligible for regular forms of funding. But if your congregation doesn't participate, then you're unlucky, unparliamentaryly expressed. If the asbestos statement is not or is not yet in the picture in a province or municipality, that authority may not or not yet participate in the planned funding fund. Governments contribute in proportion to the amount of asbestos roof covering in their area. Participation in the fund by the relevant government is a prerequisite for their residents to make a loan. However, at the request of the Lower House and the Ministry of IenW, it has been examined what the relationship is between municipalities which have or have not yet carried out an inventory of the number of asbestos roofs in their municipality. We received that message yesterday and could read that in 182 municipalities there are almost 400,000 asbestos roofs, but in 173 municipalities the numbers are still unknown. The Secretary of State states several times in his reply on behalf of the government that it is actually for owners to raise maintenance costs, which owners have to make from time to time, but not by far all asbestos-containing roof coverings are already in the danger zone. Moreover, this does not really apply to every type of roofing. She also gives information about developments to the Lower House twice a year, including with regard to price development. In 2022 Mr Aardema also referred to this issue, an evaluation exercise has been built in, which will examine whether the progress of the reorganisation exercise is sufficient. If not, additional policy measures may be needed, according to the Secretary of State. What is the government thinking about here? Mr. Chairman. Then there are the many reactions of residents, companies, municipalities and umbrella organisations, such as LTO or the Association Eigen Huis. They do not consider the required speed of clean-up and the costs to be incurred feasible before 2025. Citizens of our country are generally people with a great sense of responsibility. They do not take on a loan of €30,000 if they expect to be unable to pay back. The vast majority understands and accepts that asbestos roofs should be replaced in the long term, but calls for proportionate asbestos policy. The inhabitants are stuck between planned legislation, asbestos industry, banks and insurers. It must be said, many situations are poignant and the inability and incomprehension felt by people is understandable. This applies to both owners in the inner urban area and owners in the outer area. My final point is that there is room for logical choices. The VVD Group, as well as others, lack the opportunity to link the clean-up of asbestos roofing to logical moments, such as renovation, sustainability or demolition, in order to ensure the efficiency and efficiency of the clean-up process. In our view, the clean-up of asbestos-containing roofing should be simpler, with more capacity in the market, more competition and therefore cost advantages and with the possibility of a more integrated route, i.e. with reconstruction, closure, sustainability or conversion. This bill puts the reorganisation under high pressure with the above-mentioned objections and cost-increasing side effects. The members of the VVD Group have asked about the potential space in finance and time. After all, according to the proposal before us, there is only five years available. In the note on the report, the government gives the opportunity to see through the further development in the AMvB, at least in time. What conditions and deadlines does the government intend to apply? Madam President. On behalf of the members of the VVD Group, I would like to end with a quote from an opinion paper in Trouw dated 28 March last, written by Bert van den Braak, Professor of Parliamentary History at the University of Maastricht. He was heard yesterday in the NPO broadcast during the results afternoon of the First Chamber elections. He describes the importance of the work of the First Chamber in the final formation of laws. For example, he writes about commitments made by the government, for example on the entry into force of a law, tightening up of the transitional law or including an evaluation. "Sometimes the Senate discovers," says Van den Braak, "mistakes that can then be repaired." Furthermore, it is common for social objections to become manifest only after acceptance in the Lower House. In my group's view, the latter is very close to the situation we are now facing with regard to the proposal before us. The way in which the proposed ban is to be implemented is a matter of great concern to us and the need for it. In the EU, there is no other country that has or intends to impose a ban. The members of the VVD Group do not wish to claim that asbestos roofs cannot pose health risks and share with the government the ultimate objective of the legislative proposal. However, we advocate placing exposure in the right perspective of actual risks and with the right message. In our view, the focus should be on those situations where there is such a risk of exposure to asbestos fibres that this could actually damage health and that rapid action should be taken, such as in the case of broken or eroded asbestos roofs. Non-urgent reorganisations should be possible at logical times, for which a much wider period should be available. The Empire, together with others, could also look at financially attractive arrangements. However, in relation to the present legislative proposal, there are contradictory views on the risks of specific asbestos roofing and the demands to be included in the AMvB raise many financial problems for roof owners. In doing so, the feasibility of the legislative proposal is seriously compromised. In the light of the VNG's response, enforcement will also pose problems in practice. With this legislation, accompanied by the aforementioned aid structures, the government is most likely to lead the owners of an asbestos roof to clean up. However, most owners experience this bill more as a criminal expedition.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-3.u8	I hear Mrs Klip talking about looking at where priority should be given: which roofs are weathered? Shouldn't you be focusing on that? I would like to hear from the VVD Group how it imagines that this will work for municipalities. We have read about the so-called traffic light method. I must admit that at first we thought: what a good idea. But if you dive into it, it turns out that this means that municipalities have to use a huge amount of capacity to see per roof what is and is not weathered on that roof. My question to Mrs Klip is how she sees the enforcement and the costs involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-3.u9	I understand it takes human strength to look at the state of asbestos roofing much more differently. We understand that very well, but we would very much like to await the answer from the Secretary of State for an assessment of whether we find that a less serious bump than all the objections I have just tried to raise. But we are aware that this requires implementation capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-3.u10	Following this I hear in the story of the VVD-group a postponement question. That's why I'm asking: 1. Until when?; and 2. If we don't, how much does it cost society?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-3.u11	The answer to that last question is, of course, given by the various scientists in those various studies. The conclusions on risk policy are extremely different. I tried to make that clear. And your first question was?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-3.u12	I hear a delay in Mrs Klip's questions. What date would be feasible? So what are the additional costs of this delay?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-3.u13	We are not so much in favour of a postponement as we are in favour of a much more differentiated policy and therefore spread over a much larger period so that you could indeed remove much more customised and risk-driven asbestos roof cover. This has a relationship with the second part of your question. You and we have received a great many letters on this subject. I have also said a number of times that we do not deny that asbestos roofs could, in the long term, pose health risks. There are also differences of opinion on this point, because the bonding fibres in asbestos roof cover are much less easy to release. But, again, I'm not a connoisseur, and neither are you. So we argue for a much more differentiated risk-driven policy with space in time, room for logical moments and much more room in funding. Madam President. I'm over my time. I've got half an A4 left. Can I finish that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-3.u14	I would like to ask Mrs Klip a question. You're talking about suture-tied asbestos. That's the moment the record is made. We all know that it has been scientifically established that the 10% asbestos and 90% cement bond will be released after 15 to 20 years and asbestos will simply come out. So attached to the beginning? Yeah, but not for a long time now. We've been 20, 30, 40 years. It's just an open source of danger. So that bonding is a theory of the past, but today's practice is dangerous.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-3.u15	That was not a question, Madam President. I'm rounding up. Elsewhere in the aforementioned opinion piece, Van den Braak formulates the role of the First Chamber as follows: The First Chamber serves as a sleeper dyke of democracy. The concept of "slaperdijk" comes as many Dutch names and concepts from water geography. As a dike dike I would like to explain this, because besides sleeper dikes there are also wakerdijken or awake dikes and dykes. A sleeper dike actually acts as a reserve dike behind a main dike where a possible breakthrough will have major consequences. The members of the awake VVD Group are considering exercising this function of sleeper dyke in this legislative proposal, but before deciding on this, we are naturally waiting for the reaction of the equally very awake government with great interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-3.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Klip. I give the floor to Mr Ruers. No, to Mrs. Fiers. I wasn't wearing my glasses.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-3.u17	I just woke up, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-3.u18	No, I think I can still read it without glasses, but that's not the case for a while. Mrs. Fiers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-3.u19	The also awake Mrs. Fiers! Mr. Chairman. In the debate on this law with the House of Representatives, the State Secretary states that "I quote "there must never be any risk of safety"................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ That is what we all agree with here, I think. The use of asbestos in the Netherlands has been prohibited since July 1993. In the decades before it was widely used, in corrugated plates, brake pads, water pipe pipes, insulation material, cement and floorsail. Because of this massive exposure at the time, almost 30 years later, people still die from asbestos. This requires a careful assessment of this law here today. Fortunately, much has changed for the better since 1993! Today we are talking about the legal ban on asbestos roofs at 31 December 2024. In assessing this law for the PvdA Group at its core, it is about usefulness, necessity and proportionality. In order to assess this properly, we would like to raise three issues. Firstly, the risks of exposure to asbestos, secondly, feasibility and thirdly, affordability. First of all, the health risks of asbestos roofs. The basis of this law is the report of the Health Council of 2010. On this basis, it has been decided to step up the source approach to asbestos. Based on studies by TNO and RIVM, an accelerated approach to asbestos roofs was then chosen. An important question in the assessment of this law is the following: what exactly is the expected health impact of this law on mandatory renovation of asbestos roofs by 31 December 2024, and what is the effect if we do not implement this law? To begin with, I would like to say a few words about asbestos in the general sense. Already Googling I came to the website of RIVM, which gives a clear and informative picture of the dangers of asbestos that can also be understood by a layman. It says that every human being breathes a little asbestos out of the outside air every day, but that the dangers are low. Even if someone breathes more asbestos fibres in a short period of time, the risk of getting asbestos cancer does not increase or hardly increases. However, a person who has worked with asbestos fibres for many years is at great risk. This situation used to occur especially in certain occupations, for example in construction workers, carpenters and in installation technology. After all, asbestos was treated much less carefully than it is today. In order to understand the usefulness and necessity of this law, I would like to address the following terms, which are linked to the number of asbestos fibres in the air and which we find in the justification of this law: the so-called negligible risk and the maximum permissible risk. First of all, the maximum permissible risk. We have two specific questions for the Secretary of State. Do we understand correctly that the maximum permissible risk is the maximum limit which, according to the applicable health standards, may occur in the outdoor air in the Netherlands, where no negative effect can be expected underneath? Do we also understand that, if this law is not implemented, the amount of asbestos fibres in the air exceeds the maximum permissible risk? If so, how many? Also a few questions to the Secretary of State about that other concept, the negligible risk. The amount of asbestos fibres in the outdoor air is currently many times lower than before, researchers of TNO calculated in 2016. Concentrations are at least one factor lower than in the late 1980s. According to the researchers, this reduction is partly due to the ban on the use of asbestos, which has been in force since 1993. The number of asbestos fibres in the air in the Netherlands is currently estimated as a 'negligible risk' if we have understood the experts at our expert meeting. This brings us to the next question to the Secretary of State. Do we understand that, if this law is not implemented, the amount of asbestos fibres exceeds the "negligible risk" and if so, how much? In reply to the questions asked, the Government states: "The ban on roofing containing asbestos aims to achieve structural and permanent below the level of the negligible risk'. An ambition to a negligible risk, I don't think anyone will be against it. The other side of the coin is, of course, that a risk-free society does not exist. This is also a question for the Secretary of State. Is "negligible risk" a general policy point of the government, for example when it comes to the use of pesticides? If not, can the Secretary of State explain the differences? In order to properly assess the health risks, it is also important to have an insight into the possible negative effects of introducing this law. If the law is passed, there will be a lot of restructuring in a relatively short period of time, by companies and by individuals. In the following sections, therefore, a question for the Secretary of State. According to this law, the owners of asbestos roofs may replace the roof itself if it is less than 35 m. Above that, it must be done by a professional asbestos repairer. This brings us to the question of why the Secretary of State makes the choice for asbestos reduction up to 35 m by individuals and above that for asbestos repairers. I would ask you to include in this explanation the investigation carried out by TNO which shows that "only roofs that are seriously weathered may release a lot of fibres during renovation'. This could argue that the limit should not be set on the basis of surface area, i.e. 35 m, but on the basis of the quality of asbestos: weathered or not weathered. This last choice is made in Belgium, for example, I read. There is the rule that weathered asbestos material should not be disposed of by private individuals. I'd like an explanation from the Secretary of State for this choice. The PvdA Group is also concerned, given the high cost of clean-up, about possible illegal asbestos dumping which could lead to a legal obligation to clean up. For six weeks, the Brabant Environmental Federation sampled forest rangers of Natural Monuments and Brabants Landscape and estimated that 150 asbestos dumpings were carried out in Brabant. The answers to our questions show that there is only limited information available on the likely extent of illegal asbestos dumping as a result of this law. The Secretary of State reports in response to our questions that she is currently investigating this. Therefore, the question to the Secretary of State whether she considers it wise, on the basis of the precautionary principle, to await the results of this investigation. Does it consider it conceivable that these illegal dumping could cause a major health risk? If not, please explain this position. Mr. Chairman. Secondly, the feasibility of this legislation. There's a lot to say about that. That is what the speakers have just done for me. I would like to zoom in on one point, namely the direction of the municipalities. During the expert meeting here in this Chamber, the representatives of the Contact Group Owners Asbestos Houses, among other things, made it clear to the Association Eigen Huis that an active management role of the municipalities is a prerequisite for the successful implementation of this law. To our questions about this peripheral role of municipalities, the government answers that the municipalities do indeed have "a very important role." We would like to hear from the Secretary of State exactly what she means by "an important role." What does this important role look like to you? And what if municipalities don't take up that role? Why does the Secretary of State not choose to regulate this role on condition that this legal obligation is introduced? Finally, affordability. We are taking a decision here today on the clean-up of asbestos roofs, the costs of which have to be paid by others, namely the owners of those asbestos roofs. In total, according to the 2015 updated social cost-benefit analysis, the costs to the owners of these roofs amount to more than 1.6 billion euros. That is a very substantial amount of money, and that is very worrying for the PvdA group. There are a lot of groups of people just can't afford this. For example, individuals with a modest income, or farmers who, because of their financial position, cannot make use of the tax deduction. Does the Secretary of State have any idea of the size of the group that can't afford that rehabilitation? In the debate with the House of Representatives, the Secretary of State states: "We understand very well that a financial instrument is needed to allow more people to make this transition." That is why we are very curious about this financial instrument. What exactly is that going to mean and when will it be available? Will it be available all over the Netherlands, or only if the municipality or province is co-paying? And what do we do with situations where owners cannot or do not want to incur new debts? Here, too, the question to the Secretary of State: why not regulate this financial instrument at the same time? Does the Secretary of State agree with us that this is a prerequisite for success? If not, how should we assess her statement that a financial instrument is needed to enable more people to participate in this transition? Mr President, I come to a conclusion. As stated at the beginning of my speech, it is our duty today to assess the usefulness, necessity and proportionality of this law. We have serious doubts about this and are therefore looking forward to the answer of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-3.u20	Thank you, Mrs Fiers. I give the floor to Mrs Stienen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-3.u21	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the bill that creates a legal basis for the ban on asbestos-containing roofing. On behalf of the D66 Group, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for her comprehensive answer to the many questions from this Chamber that sometimes go beyond the core of this bill. Still, it's not strange that those questions come up. Because we are talking about an important issue: the prevention of risks to the health of Dutch people as a result of asbestos contamination. According to the Rijksinstituut voor Volksgezondheid en Milieu (RIVM), more than 107,000 people worldwide die from asbestos-related diseases such as peritoneum or pleural cancer (mesothelioma), lung cancer and dust lungs (asbestosis). Although asbestos has been banned in the Netherlands since 1993, people are still exposed to it. This is due, among other things, to the fact that the asbestos used in the past is still present, for example in old buildings and at 80 million m2 of roofs in the Netherlands. The health effects of asbestos exposure are still visible 25 years after the ban on asbestos. According to RIVM, up to 2050 in the Netherlands about 15,800 people will be diagnosed with one of the asbestos diseases and will die from them. 15,800 people! The GGD GHOR Netherlands is a strong supporter of replacing asbestos roofs in the coming years and calls in particular for attention to risk locations. Exposure takes place mainly through weathered roofs and when asbestos particles are released in the event of incidents. One of those incidents is still in my memory, because this took place in my hometown of Roermond. Just before Christmas in 2014, a large fire took place in a boat shed with an asbestos sheet roof. The city centre of Roermond was crippled for a long time. I'm sure you remember the media footage. It took weeks to clean up the asbestos. A large area was laid off and many shops had to close. Just before Christmas, Roermond became a ghost town. There was a great deal of concern among the population. A million-dollar damage, which was linked to the cost of cleaning up released asbestos particles, and loss of income for middlemen was the result. Detailed reports have been written on how this fire and the fear of asbestos contamination has been handled. The question today is: what would have happened if the roofs of the warehouse had already been renovated and there had been no asbestos left in the roof? After chatting is always easy, but it is obvious that the focus would have been mainly on the fire and not on the asbestos contamination risk, and that much unrest and costs could have been avoided. Madam President. This fire in Roermond isn't on its own. Every year such incidents take place, which receive a great deal of media attention and cause social unrest, precisely because there is a great deal of uncertainty about possible asbestos contamination. Does the Secretary of State have an overview of the number of incidents, fires and explosions in which asbestos has been released in recent years and the estimated cost of handling these incidents? The GGD GHOR recommends, where appropriate, a good, realistic assessment of the health risks associated with the clean-up of asbestos roofs and fires. They also call for practical studies to be carried out to see whether too strict legal rules on asbestos removal cannot unnecessarily increase costs or delay them. According to the GGD, it is also likely to be possible to clean up in a simpler, cheaper or more innovative way and in a healthly responsible manner. This should then be done through cooperation between different parties, such as the government, the asbestos industry and research institutes. The D66 Group would like to hear the Secretary of State's view on this plea for practical research. How does she intend to take this into account in the coming years in the development of the AMvB? Would it also like to include knowledge, expertise and experience from our neighbouring countries and countries such as Sweden? At the time of the fire in Roermond, there was already a social and political discussion on the opinion of the Health Council of mid-2010 entitled "Asbestos: risks of environmental and occupational exposure." On 15 February 2011, Secretary of State Atsma wrote to the House of Representatives that "to remove the amount of asbestos in the living environment, the main sources of asbestos are addressed: asbestos roads and (rejected) asbestos roofs." State Secretary Atsma chooses in this letter for the year 2024. He writes: "The year 2024 is a generation after the 1994 ban on the use of asbestos, so that it coincides with the expected technical life of the asbestos plates. This is without prejudice to the fact that, in the case of high-risk situations, there is a need for prior reorganisation." Mr. Chairman. In the meantime, it is mid-2019, almost ten years after the Health Council's report was published. The D66 Group considers it important to speed up legislation based on the principle of prevention that prevention is better than cure. Therefore, the D66 Group understands the choice of the current Secretary of State to opt, like its predecessor Atsma, for a hard date for banning asbestos roofs. After all, longer delays increase costs and health risks and the likelihood that more and more asbestos fibres will enter the environment. However, the D66 Group still has some questions about the feasibility and enforcement of the AMvB that will be made on the basis of this bill. Would the Secretary of State first of all like to indicate at what point in time she is going to put this AMvB in front of both chambers if this bill is passed by this Chamber? The D66 group welcomes the information via various websites, such as the asbestos acceleration.nl website, and the National Asbestodakenkaart. Moreover, according to this map, 182 municipalities have made information available, 77 municipalities have made an inventory but have not yet made data available and 96 municipalities do not yet have data. Would the Secretary of State like to respond to these figures? And what does it do to encourage the municipalities to make the right data available? In addition, the D66 Group is concerned about the financial consequences of this legislation for less able individuals and owners of business premises for whom the additional investment in replacing asbestos roofs is above other investments to be made in their homes or premises in the context of sustainability statements. The D66 Group would therefore like to receive from the Secretary of State a brief overview of the possibilities for individuals on the one hand and for entrepreneurs on the other hand to obtain reimbursement of costs through grants, co-financing, loans and tax refunds. The D66 Group calls for particular attention to owners of roofs with asbestos slates, such as in Deventer, because the renovation of these roofs is much more expensive than the cleaning of corrugated sheets. I would like to hear from the D66 Group about the preparations for the asbestos fund or the national fund, and I would like to know the name of the municipality and the way in which municipalities and provinces are involved. What does it mean for residents if their municipality and/or province does not join this fund? The D66 Group is somewhat concerned that arbitrariness may arise. Madam President. A hard end time could have a price uplifting effect. The D66 Group therefore believes that it is important that proper regulation and market forces make the reorganisation cheaper rather than more expensive. Would the Secretary of State also indicate what scope there is for new entrants to the market who would like to specialise in asbestos remodelling? Of course, we are aware that the demands for a safe clean-up and protection of workers in asbestos rehabilitation are the responsibility of Secretary of State Van Ark. However, we would like to hear from this Secretary of State whether and where responsible adaptation of the rules on asbestos rehabilitation can be cost-effective. In the end, enforcement will end with municipalities. Are there any additional resources available for this? Mr President, I will conclude. In 2022 there is a legal review. Can the Secretary of State outline the key questions to be answered by this evaluation and how the results of this evaluation could lead to changes in funding, implementation and enforcement? Mr. Chairman. My group is looking forward to the answer to our questions by the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-3.u22	Thank you, Mrs Stienen. I give the floor to Mrs Baay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-3.u23	Mr. Chairman. My group would like to thank the Secretary of State for the detailed answer to the questions raised in the note following the report of 16 May last, which clearly defined the concept of roofing. 50PLUS has a few further questions for the Secretary of State in response to the proposed proposal for the disposal of asbestos and asbestos-containing products. Mr. Chairman. This bill creates a tension between health risks posed by asbestos after prolonged exposure and high cost of clean-up for citizens. We can already see that, in the run-up to this asbestos ban, the perverse incentive is created for companies to charge exorbitant prices for the removal of asbestos. The experts' meeting on 26 March and on the RIVM website emphasized the fact that, in particular, long-term exposure to asbestos fibres increases the risks of cancer caused by asbestos. Is this principle of long-term exposure included in the report of the Health Council of 2010? If not, would an update of this report, based on moving insight into risks, not be appropriate? The Secretary of State acknowledges that far from all the owners of asbestos-containing roofs are able to finance the renovation from their own resources and wants to create a fund for this purpose. Can the Secretary of State give an indication of the annual budget of this fund? Is there any chance that the fund will be closed prematurely for applications for exhaustion of funds? Does this fund also provide financial coverage if the owner wants to make the whole house completely asbestos-free in terms of efficiency and cost savings? So this is a complete clean-up of, for example, asbestos behind façade plates or indoor asbestos. If this is not covered, can the Secretary of State take this opportunity into account when drawing up the regulations on applications to the Fund? I'd like an explanation from the Secretary of State. Pensioners without financial capacity with only income from AOW and a limited supplementary pension will have to use this fund, but will they always be eligible for it? They represent a risky investment for this fund. Is this group of disabled pensioners able to pay repayments and interest to the fund? What are the consequences for them if they fail to do so? For example, can this lead to a forced sale of the property? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. The Secretary of State also emphasizes in the documents the danger of fire in which asbestos fibres are released in the living environment and the soil. However, as long as asbestos is present indoors and in façade plating, this danger applies equally to fire. How does the proportionality of the asbestos roof ban relate to this fact? Mr. Chairman. My group does not quite understand the dividing line between the self-removal of asbestos up to 35 square metres and the requirement that only certified companies should take over the disposal. Mrs Fiers referred to that as well. Inhaling asbestos fibres is dangerous and this danger is not related to the number of square meters. Please explain to the Secretary of State why this limit of 35 m has been chosen. Mr. Chairman. How does the Secretary of State intend to obtain adequate information on the safe removal and disposal of asbestos by the owner himself or in his order when it comes to the 35 m measure? What is the most effective way of informing and informing about this? Can the Secretary of State undertake to launch a national information campaign to address health risks? Finally, Mr President. How does the Secretary of State see the development that insurers are about to exclude insured persons? This can be done, for example, on the basis of policy provisions in which houses with asbestos-containing materials located on the inside of the house are excluded from complete fire cover. My group is looking forward to answering the questions put.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-3.u24	Thank you, Mrs Baay. I give the floor to Mr Diederik van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-3.u25	Thank you. Chairman. I would like to assess the proposed ban on asbestos roofs in particular on two aspects: proportionality and feasibility. There is a lot of discussion about the risk of asbestos roofs. Then it is always good to look first at the figures and then not at the past exposure. Unfortunately, this exposure still gives hundreds of people a deadly cancer every year. We are now talking about current and future exposure from weathered asbestos roofs. That's another story. The Health Council has tightened the standards. For residents, the standard is 28 fibers per cubic metre of air. The question then arises: how many asbestos fibres are there in the outdoor air? If you go over the reports, I'm very surprised that there's really not much good data on this. If asbestos fibres in the outdoors are such a big problem, why hasn't the government had any more research on this? TNO did research at about seven locations three years ago. Turns out what? On two places near sanding with weathered roofs measurements have been made in worst case weather conditions. You'd think those places were a bad score. However, concentrations were below the value for the negligible risk and well below the value for the maximum permissible risk. I also added a risk analysis of the Inspection Environment and Transport from 2018. The calculations of the ILT based on RIVM data result in ten people experiencing annual asbestos cancer due to work-related exposure and three people due to non-work-related exposure. Only those last three could be related to the weathering of asbestos roofs, although that is not even the only source. This risk therefore falls outside the scope of the risks of, for example, smoking, drug and alcohol consumption, particulate matter and so on. You could say, "Every human life counts." And of course it is! But if that's the motive, you have to tell the whole story. The introduction of the ban on asbestos roofs by 2025 will greatly increase the number of illegal asbestos fires. The increasing number of dumping of illegal asbestos waste is a sign on the wall. And what does number one say when it comes to exposure to asbestos? Ignorant removal of asbestos. And that's exactly what happens in illegal clean-up. In short, the SGP questions the basis for the impact of the proposals before us and would like a more detailed explanation. In the note following the report, the Secretary of State does not go much further than the observation that, given the risks of exposure through the living environment, it is necessary to avoid as much as possible. I don't think that's a real hard argument. The Secretary of State is optimistic about the feasibility of a ban in 2025. Reality is different. Only the ambassadors of the acceleration approach call for it to be possible. But anyone who listens to the experts in the field knows better. I'll mention a few signs on the wall. First the numbers so far. If by 2025 everything has to be gone, 15 million square meters will have to be cleaned every year. Last year, about 13 million square meters were restored. But in that year, the subsidy scheme of the Empire also expired, so that many people have taken action quickly. This gives a distorted picture of the supposed acceleration of the clean-up. We also need to realise that in recent years large roof areas have been renovated. The 400,000 homes and small sheds with higher costs and time spans per square meter are still to come. I should also like to point out that because of the strict training and rehabilitation requirements, the number of asbestos repairers is limited and the capacity is therefore scarce, especially with the current shortage of labour. There's outflow of employees instead of influx. Individuals who want to get their asbestos roof cleaned now often receive towering offers because asbestos repairers simply don't have time for it yet. What's that supposed to be towards 2025? In addition, it is estimated that between 5 and 10% of the building owners are financially unable to finance renovation. That percentage is even higher among agricultural entrepreneurs, and that is precisely those with the largest areas of asbestos roofs. The national subsidy scheme has now been discontinued. The Secretary of State has announced a fund for low-cost loans. However, the implementation is still unclear, while the ban is approaching at a rapid pace. Moreover, it will still be difficult for many individuals and entrepreneurs with a loan to get that loan repaid at all. Of course, stopping agricultural entrepreneurs are not going to start doing this and there are quite a few of them. Unfortunately, it's not that simple. The Secretary of State has a far too rosy picture of affordability. Does the Secretary of State recognize that we're not going to get there like this? A number of additional considerations. The Secretary of State shields by the fact that insurers are pulling their hands off asbestos roofs and that many have already taken steps in the run-up to the announced ban. Yes, but that does not alter the cardinal criticisms I have just mentioned. By the way, how is it that there are so many years between the announcement of the ban and the regulation of the legal basis for this? The government must be particularly concerned about this. Announcement of a ban without a rapid legal settlement is unwise and careless and, as far as we are concerned, no argument to push it through. An important bottleneck for making an asbestos roof ban affordable and feasible is the strict training, certification and safety requirements. Rules are being drawn up more and more into the field of work. I can imagine that they have an interest in reducing the number of new entrants and making money out of checks and inventories. There is little room for safe, innovative methods of clean-up. The cabinet has announced a review of the asbestos system, but in practice there is not much of it. Recently, a clean-up company using a foam coating to remove asbestos in a cheap and safe way was still under way in court. That's not how it works, is it? An evaluation period is included in the law in 2022. It has been expressly stated that the date of the ban will not be under discussion, but that what is still needed to be ready in time will then be examined. I think I can be very brief about this: if you still have to switch, you're really late. In any case, it should not be a reason to call attention now to feasibility and affordability. All things considered, I say: either the Cabinet provides evidence of sufficient financial support and approval of innovative methods to make a ban acceptable, or the ban is in this form of a table. In any event, the SGP believes that the ban should be postponed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-3.u26	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. I give the floor to Mr Binnema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-3.u27	Thank you, Madam President. It's with some mixed feelings that I'm standing here. About eight months ago, on 2 October 2018, I was installed as a Member of Parliament. A week later, I was allowed to have my first plenary debate, then on gas extraction in Groningen. And today is the eighth and last time. I'd be happy to look back on these eight months. I understood from a fellow senator that I can be happy with that average of one plenary debate a month. In any case, it is an important debate that we are having here today. I believe that this debate on the proposed ban on asbestos roofing, the extensive written exchange of views with the government, the technical briefing and the expert meeting show the importance and added value of the First Chamber. My group was therefore not so fond of the Government's remark that no new insights or arguments had emerged since the House of Representatives was discussed. Nor do we find the fact that 147 votes in favour of this bill were voted in the House of Representatives, an argument in itself. However, we are pleased that the government has tried to address the concerns and questions that live in this Chamber as well as possible. As far as my group is concerned, this has also been achieved, but I have four other issues which I would like to highlight in this contribution and which are also of interest to GroenLinks in the assessment of this bill: firstly, the nature and extent of the problem, secondly, the justification of the solution chosen here, thirdly, the acceptance and involvement of stakeholders and, finally, the feasibility. After all the contributions so far, the latter subject is extremely unsurprising. Firstly, the nature and extent of the problem. As Mrs Klip said, the complexity of this asbestos problem is, as is often the case with this type of problem, the fact that scientists disagree again. Such differences of understanding are extremely good for the scientific debate, but they are often a complicating factor in making policies and laws. The RIVM developed in its 2017 report "Health effects of asbestos: Current and future size in the Netherlands" four scenarios for the number of people who may die from asbestos-related diseases between now and 2050. A distinction is made between work exposure, environmental exposure and a number of factors not to be specified. It has also been mentioned before: the most realistic scenario the RIVM maintains, speaks of between 9,000 and 10,500 new mesothelioma cases until 2050. This number of cases will decrease every year until almost only cases are expected from 2030 due to environmental exposure. Other diseases, such as lung cancer, have all kinds of causes and are not directly linked as mesothelioma to asbestos exposure, but the health effects are still visible almost 25 years after the ban on asbestos. The other side of the scale of the problem concerns the quantity and complexity of the asbestos covering that we still have in the Netherlands. The figure of 80 million square metres, which has always been mentioned, is an estimate. The national map of the acceleration approach shows that a large number of municipalities, particularly in the provinces of Groningen, Noord-Brabant, Noord-Holland and Friesland, have not yet made an inventory of asbestos roofs. Mrs Stienen mentioned this and Mrs Klip also referred to the number of municipalities in which this inventory has not yet been carried out. In other words, it could also be a larger surface. What margin should we consider here, according to the Secretary of State? And what is the most important means that the Secretary of State has to encourage municipalities that have not yet made an inventory to do so? With regard to complexity, one part of the answer is the distribution of 75% industrial buildings, 20% private and 5% other, such as schools, where asbestos is still present. In this respect, it can be assumed that the clean-up of industrial buildings is usually a little easier. However, the answer given by the Secretary of State "there are no indications that the remaining task is more complex" contradicts what several speakers said at the expert meeting when they said that the low-hanging fruit has now been picked. It also contradicts the many e-mails and other contacts we have had on this subject, even if I consider that, of course, the owners with complex cases will report to us. Secondly, the justification. The use of asbestos has been prohibited since 1993. This means that roofs containing asbestos will be at least 30 years old and possibly older as from the ban. It's been 15 years since the takeover began. In addition, fibres are released, with the aforementioned health risks. This weathering increases exponentially over time. Once asbestos contaminates the soil, it is difficult to remove it, or at much higher costs than would have been the case in the case of clean-up. It also points to the need to replace roofs which have reached a certain age, which would mean, in particular, early retirement. Finally, the argument is that insurers are less and less willing to include asbestos-covered roofs in the policy, or only under very restrictive conditions. As far as we are concerned, it has been scientifically convincingly demonstrated that there is a relationship between being exposed to asbestos and getting certain diseases. We can also follow the reasoning that if there is a possibility of reducing health risks, the government should seize them. This should preferably be done by means of a source policy, as previously in the approach to asbestos roads. It is likely that part of that exposure is caused by asbestos originating from rooftops. This proposal is therefore a logical continuation of the approach at source. When you see that, there is also a clear deadline and a ban on providing that requested security and clarity to individuals and entrepreneurs. But it is a question of how the burden is then properly distributed between the government and owners and how you deal with the fact that that same government has allowed for years, sometimes even encouraged, that asbestos was placed on the roofs. I will come back to that later under the heading 'executable'. Point three: support and commitment. In the reply, the State Secretary refers to the steps taken in the reorganisation in good cooperation with provinces, municipalities, housing corporations and LTO Netherlands. GroenLinks has indeed also found that with a significant financial boost, the removal of asbestos roofs has accelerated in recent years. Especially from the provinces, we are still hearing support for this law and an incentive for us to continue to speed up. However, we have heard most of the objections and objections from the other parties mentioned. In fact, a number of them called on the First Chamber not to agree to this law, both at the expert meeting and in written responses afterwards. How does the Secretary of State view these shifting views? What does this mean for the feasibility of the further approach to asbestos roofs and the broad support of these stakeholders? In particular, over the last few weeks, we have heard a lot from homeowners who feel mugged by the ban and who have not noticed that the bill has already progressed so far. We have also heard a lot of stories from people who have doubts about usefulness and necessity, and in particular about the pace at which the roofs need to be repaired. This contrasts with the government's view that people could have been aware since the first steps towards this ban on asbestos roofs were taken in 2010 and 2011 and that everyone would have been sufficiently informed. I would like a response from the Secretary of State, and hopefully she will also be able to respond to the efforts made so far by the government to communicate and inform about the forthcoming ban. Fourthly, the feasibility. This is first and foremost about the reorganisation itself and by whom it is carried out. Up to 35 m a person may do this himself, but there is no understanding of how often individuals actually do this. Above that surface, a specialised company is needed. The asbestos industry itself indicated at the expert meeting that several hundred new people are needed for this, which does not seem to be settled in the current labour market. The answer given by the government is somewhat unclear on this point, because it is stressed, on the one hand, that removal of asbestos is work for specialists and, on the other hand, that each company can be certified within the existing system and that it is sought to find ways of achieving a simpler implementation of the clean-up and also of part-certificates for roof renovation. Does this also mean that Mrs Klip has asked for the market to be widened or somewhat protected and that the requirements for certification become less stringent? Let me get this straight. An important role in the feasibility of the Fund is provided by a capital letter F in the case of owners who are less able and are not eligible for regular financing. The government indicates that the amount of the loan swapped for 25% or 30% of the owners would be too large. The People's Housing Fund has an idea of the intended size of the Fund, of the principles and of the risk profile, and has also developed it on a broad basis. The adoption of this bill and the announcement of the AMvB should then be the starting point for the Fund. The Fund itself is then regulated in a separate agreement and could be operational in or after the summer. Can the Secretary of State give us more insight into the design of the Fund, as has now been developed by SVn on the main lines, and also into the way in which the Fund is legally secured? Last but not least, enforcement is also a matter of enforcement. What about the capacity and expertise of the competent authority, in most cases the municipalities? As mentioned earlier, quite a few municipalities have not yet made an inventory of the asbestos roofs in their square metres. The government states that it is to be deployed at a high rate of clean-up, the 15 million square metres per year just mentioned, so that "no substantial maintenance is required after 31 December 2024." But if municipalities do not know how many and which roofs are involved, what effort will they make until 2025 and certainly afterwards and how will they be monitored? Our interest was also aroused by the aforementioned possibility of differentiation, when rehabilitation is linked to renovation or sustainability. Does this mean that in these cases the reorganisation can sometimes be postponed until after 2024? How many cases would that be? At the same time, how does the Secretary of State intend to avoid the risk of arbitrariness and difficulties for municipal enforcement? We do not find the route of development via the AMvB optimal. Preferably, this is well regulated at law level. We also see some time pressure because the AMvB must also be the basis for the Fund and therefore a good involvement of the two Chambers can get in trouble. Mr President, concluding. If anything is risky in this asbestos file, it is an attitude of "let it blow." This can be understood both literally and figuratively. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, it is ill-advised to make the effects of exposure to asbestos in relation to health or to trivialise it. But it is not for nothing that there are still many questions and concerns in this Chamber as to whether this bill is a workable and appropriate solution. It is precisely because my group sees the positive and desirable aspects of this ban that we consider a careful discussion to be very important. We therefore look forward to the answer of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-3.u28	Thank you, Mr. Binnema. I give the floor to Mr Kuiper.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-3.u29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This will be my last plenary contribution to this house.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-3.u30	Snoop, snoop, snoop, snoop, snoop.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-3.u31	My 65th in this parliamentary term, that's how I counted on the pages of the First Chamber. When you get to such a number, a bell rings and encourages you to think of waving off. Mr President, if you hear any emotion in my voice, it has to do with my severe cold, but there are other feelings underneath it. I have always found it an honor and a special responsibility to participate in the deliberations in this House. My commitment has always been to contribute to legislation and ultimately to the weighting of the public interest, based on a Christianly motivated conviction. That is the importance of people in society, that is the importance of what we have built up publicly, and that is the importance of the earth that is entrusted to us. I see the integral promotion of justice and justice as the core task of politics, and I have also wanted to do so with the service of people, public welfare of all people, without distinction. That is why what we do here in the house and decide is never without commitment. Our work has weight because it affects people's lives. Mr. Chairman. The debate we are having today on the removal of asbestos also has that weight. It may seem only one aspect in the whole of public action, but we are talking in this legislative proposal about the risks to public health, public responsibilities, fair burden-sharing and the feasibility of legislation. Although my group fully supports the purpose of the law, it still has the necessary questions. Mr. Chairman. Given the health risks, it is clear to us that the government is right to assume its responsibility for removing asbestos. Insights from the last century and in particular the report of the Health Council of 2010 form the basis for this. Detailed measures are now being taken to prevent the spread of asbestos fibres in the living environment. The 2015 decision to remove asbestos roofs gave owners nine years, until 31 December 2024, to proceed with disposal. Since 2016, there has been an alliance of many parties that has promoted a broad approach. The health risks posed by older and resistant roofs, all prior to the 1993 ban, are obvious. Even if there are different insights and reports, that there is a risk that too many people will still die from exposure to asbestos, our group has no doubt. That is why it is right that these roofs should be replaced and asbestos removed. I also understand that there is a deadline to keep pressure on the boiler. The pace is high at the moment, and that should not be allowed to go away. Mr. Chairman. An important question is whose responsibility and account should be taken of this removal. One can reason that it is a cost that an owner has when he owns a house or barn. If roofs or materials are written off, replacement is at issue. That principle can also be applied here. It is the owner's responsibility to remove and that owner pays the costs involved. At the same time, the owner is forced to do so by the government. He or she may not have taken up his place on her own initiative. Should the one who forces pay only? No, I don't think so, even in similar cases. The public authorities do not simply take the measure, but have a public interest in public health. This public interest may be requested by owners of homes and barns. The public interest of public health is a common interest, and this is also expressed by the broad cooperation of the many cooperation partners involved. Government, parties and owners are working together to enable asbestos removal. You see at least a joint responsibility and therefore an effort can be required from all those involved. The fact that there is an account for owners is fair. But there is also a role and responsibility for the government. I will come to that later when I talk about the implementation. Mr. Chairman. On the other hand, we are already about halfway through the planned implementation period. There are many owners who have paid the bill in recent years, whether or not using a grant. It has also been clear for a long time that there is a strong policy aimed at removing asbestos from the environment. Owners of buildings could see this coming and realize what this means to them. Questions arise regarding the burden of the operation. From all the noises that come to us, it is clear that the financial capacity of some asbestos roof owners is a matter of great concern. These include, for example, owners of housing in urban areas with a small scholarship, or owners of farm sheds or farm buildings with large areas of asbestos roof. As far as the latter is concerned, it makes a big difference whether the owner has a vital business and can address the removal from the context of a good running business or whether there are buildings on a fallen estate where income is no longer generated and the account is a straight nightmare. My group wants to be reassured on this point. In view of the fact that a common public interest is served, the measures must be socially equitable. I know that the government together with municipalities and provinces is making a lot of efforts to advise and guide owners. Favourable loans can also be made and the facilities for this can be increased in a national fund, the above mentioned fund with a capital F. My group expects that this will not be sufficient for every owner. There will be poignant cases and therefore bills or loans that hang around the neck of owners like a millstone. What else can we do about this? I would like to hear a response from the Secretary of State on this point. Mr. Chairman. Everything comes down to the implementation of the bill. I would like to say three things about feasibility. First of all, it is the financial arrangement behind this. There has been a subsidy scheme that some have been able to use, but others have not. I understand that in some provinces, especially in the East of the Netherlands, active support is offered to asbestos roof owners, also financially. It should not be the case that residents of some provinces are helped and others are not. I call on the Secretary of State to have the conversation with the provinces and possibly municipalities to work with them towards an equal approach for everyone throughout the country. A second comment concerns the relaxation of the implementation approach. Several colleagues have already made a comment on this. The self-removal of asbestos roofs which are 35 m long is not very harmful, so experts say, and can be carried out by private individuals themselves. Couldn't someone do it themselves on much larger areas than those 35 metres? As a consequence, there is the question that arises in the industry, namely whether public regulations have not made the removal of asbestos too cumbersome and costly. Have we not greatly increased the demands which have made clean-up a very costly business? Does the Secretary of State want to take a look at that, too? Finally, an extension of the deadline could also be envisaged, and I know that it is a little early in the church, so until after 2024, at least for those low-risk roofs. This would give air to those involved and also give time to look again at the degree of urgency in individual cases. Mr. Chairman. As usual, I look forward to the answers of the Secretary of State. These answers will be important to our group and well weighed in view of our final judgment. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-3.u32	Thank you, Mr. Kuiper. Hopefully we'll see you again in second term. I give the floor to Mr Ruers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-3.u33	Thank you, Madam President. This is also a final contribution to this Chamber for me. I've had a lot of appreciation and pleasure over the last 20 years at some intervals here. I am also pleased to be able to speak in my last speech on an issue which is of great concern to me and which I have raised here on a regular basis during those 20 years. I'll get back to you on that. I'm going to divide my contribution into a number of topics. I'll start with Dr. Stumphius's dissertation. Then there was the ban, the lobby of the asbestos industry and the bill itself. I would like to make a comment about Tata Steel and business, and I will end with a financial concession for the owners who have already spoken about it. Many parts of my speech will be in line with what others have said. I listened to that with great interest. Madam President. Stumphius. Who was Stumphius? This year we commemorate that it is exactly 50 years ago February 1969 that Dr. Jan Stumphius obtained his PhD on the dissertation "Asbestos in a company population." Stumphius was a company doctor at the shipyard De Schelde in Vlissingen. He discovered that in the period 1963-1968 on Walcheren 25 workers were affected by the disease mesothelioma, which stands for lung and peritoneum cancer. It's an incurable disease. The majority of these mesothelioma victims were workers and former employees of shipyard De Schelde. On the basis of his findings, Stumphius concluded in the dissertation: "In view of the current spread of asbestos, especially outside industry, one should fear an exhibition in the same order of magnitude for entire populations. The consequences will therefore become apparent in a few decades' time. Asbestos is rapidly evolving from an occupational health problem to a clear public health problem. Unfortunately, that warning from Stumphius was justified and he was right about the extension of the problem. The importance of Stumphius's dissertation was not only in the warning, but also in the fact that in our country, in a scientific sense, it settled the discussion at that time on the relationship between asbestos and mesothelioma. We now know that there is a monocausality: mesothelioma can only be caused by exposure to asbestos. I have often heard this in practice from people who had mesothelioma and told me about visiting the hospital. After examination, the specialist came to them and asked the question: "Have you worked with asbestos?" Then you knew what time it was; they had mesothelioma. Since 1969, the CBS has maintained the annual number of mesothelioma victims. In 1969 the annual figure was still below 100, in 1990 it was above 250, in 2000 the annual limit of 350 was exceeded, in 2016 the limit of 600 and hopefully the highest number of about 650 mesothelioma victims per year is expected to be reached around 2018/2019. 650 people a year! In the period 1969-2015 almost 15,000 people died from mesothelioma in our country. If you look at the whole thing, we're probably only halfway there and at least 15,000 more. According to the latest forecast, there will be around 10,000 mesothelioma victims in the period 2017-2038, i.e. over the next 20 years. And, remember, the number of victims of asbestos-related lung cancer is at least as high. So double the number. They're incredible numbers! I heard one of the speakers this morning say that lung cancer is not so bad, because then there is multicausality. That is true, but we also know from research by the Health Council that about 10% of all lung cancer victims in the Netherlands are unfortunately asbestos related. I have therefore previously noted and noted that asbestos is the main cause of occupational diseases in our country and, apart from tobacco, the most lethal carcinogenic substance in the environment. I'm getting to the prohibition section now. It is therefore not surprising that, as a result of medical science, but also by the trade unions, I have already been talking about 1969/1970 in favour of a complete ban on the use of asbestos. We have to face the question of what the attitude of the government has been since the cancer risk of asbestos was indisputably established, i.e. from 1969 onwards. Some say it was before. That's right. We can look at Wagner's extremely important 1960 report on asbestos in South Africa, and at the reports made in the 1960s. But now I'd like to start from 1969. When we look at the attitude of the government, we see that the government reacted very quickly and adequately in response to Stumphius's dissertation and promised a ban on asbestos. Mind you, 1969. Shortly afterwards, however, the government came under the influence of the strong industry lobby, especially Eternit, and it came back to its position. The ban was postponed until 1 July 1993, with the result that the ban was postponed for almost 25 years. And, it won't be, there was another six months at the time that most people didn't know what it was 1994 because Eternit said: we still have such a large stock; can we get another six months? That's what they got. Our society has paid a very high price for this. Exposure to asbestos continued almost unhindered after 1969. The production of the asbestos cement industry reached record heights. That is the cause of the comparatively high number of asbestos victims that our country faces, and unfortunately for decades to come. There is also the cause of the immense amounts of asbestos cement products that surround us and which we are struggling with today, even today, here. If we sell the Netherlands against other countries in the world, the Netherlands belongs to the top five victims. Australia, England and the Netherlands are the top three in the world. So we have a very poor record in this area. But I was talking about the lobby. How did that lobby work? First of all, I have briefly summarized it, but you can write a book about it, and even a dissertation, I have understood it by questioning and questioning certain facts. Less than a year after Stumphius's dissertation, Eternit began to create lobby organisations of all kinds as a vanguard of the asbestos cement industry. They functioned very hard and very well. Secondly, Eternit opened the attack on medical science by raising doubts and advocating a postponement of the ban in all possible ways. For example, Eternit claimed in 1972 in high tone that it had not been demonstrated that exposure to chrysotile................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. There was an argument for the fact that there had never been an asbestos victim among Eternit workers. What, by the way, was not right, but well, it was argued. During the doubt sowing by Eternit also heard the production of scientific articles................................................................................................................................................................... Eternit did not hesitate to blackmail the government and even personally attack scientists who defended an uncomfortable view of asbestos for Eternit. That's where they went a long way. Even Labour Inspectorate officials were put under great pressure by Eternit because they were critical. This international group also performed to challenge incorrect and falsified evidence in court proceedings. I've been through it myself. The influence of the asbestos and asbestos cement industries towards the government should also be there. As an example, the TNO Asbestos Day of 20 October 1977 serves as an example. In April 1977 the government had issued a limited asbestos decision after seven years of preparation. TNO Delft organised an asbestos day about the elaboration of that decision. Among the 300 participants in the meeting were a thirteen-member Eternit delegation led by top man Van der Rest and many asbestos processing companies, but also the Minister for Social Affairs, Mr Jaap Boersma. Two weeks before TNO's Asbestos Day, Boersma received the following letter from VNO chairman Mr Van Veen. I quote: "Dear Jaap, Mr. Goedman, President of Eternit, will send you a note one of these days concerning the implementation of the Asbestos Decision and its consequences for his company and in particular for a rather decent investment. I'm calling your attention to this case. I cannot escape the impression that there is very one-sided information from certain sides in this area. On 20 October, this matter will be discussed again on the Asbestos Day, and I sincerely hope that it will be balanced. You yourself speak on that day and might be able to keep an eye on that point. Best regards, C. van Veen." I'm gonna join the bill. The discussion on the legislative proposal before us repeatedly refers to the ban on asbestos of 1 July 1993. It often suggests that this ban would make the risk of exposure to asbestos in our country a thing of the past. That is not, however, the case, unfortunately. For what was the situation before the ban of 1 July 1993, and what changed with the ban? Until 1 July 1993, about 5 million m of asbestos-cement products were added to our country every year. Five million more a year, and that's what's bothering us now, with that legacy. These products consist mainly of asbestos cement corrugated sheets and flat plates. The total size of these roofs in 1993 was estimated at 120 million m. However, the legislation following the ban of 1 July 1993 did not impose a general obligation to dispose of these asbestos products. That is the actual situation so far. There is still no obligation to dispose of these asbestos products, which are in themselves life-threatening. Only after the present bill has become law will that situation change, as far as asbestos-containing roofs are concerned, but not for all the other products. And there were a lot of them, a lot of them. To give an idea: the government asked the Labour Inspectorate in 1980 to draw up a report on which asbestos products we have in the Netherlands. That's a very thick report. There are hundreds of companies on it who then made asbestos products in society. Those products were simply distributed, which were used until 1993, but you encountered all those products. In buildings and in homes there is asbestos everywhere. That's what the corporation Aedes has to do with. Think, for example, of mains, sewer lines. Half of all sewer lines in the Netherlands are asbestos cement. If you work on that, you're gonna be drilling into a life-threatening substance. That happens every day today. Every day, employees have to deal with that. Asbestos roofs are a major problem. It's a good thing we're dealing with that. That is very important, and it must be done as soon as possible, but there are many other problems that ordinary workers face every day. If you do not pay attention to this and unfortunately the knowledge of it has become a lot less among the young employees in this industry.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. That's why I think it's very good to pay attention to that. The legislative proposal therefore merely involves the concrete intention to ban the possession of an asbestos roof, not all the other products. For all these other products, this bill does not change anything in our society, except perhaps the perception that it is very important to pay attention to this. There is therefore no concrete intention, as the government rightly points out in its explanatory memorandum, to introduce an obligation to remove asbestos in objects, asbestos pollution or asbestos waste. Tell me all the other asbestos products that surround us. For the record, the SP Group supports this proposal because it is an important step forward which will remove at least the erodizing and thus dangerous asbestos cement roofs as quickly as possible. But this support for the legislative proposal does not make us ignore all other forms of asbestos in society for which no legislative measures are proposed. And we think that's a huge loss. For our part, I appeal to the government: let this not be the end of a process, but just the beginning of it. The other asbestos products should also be removed because of all the major risks and the additional costs involved if we wait longer. It is worth noting that the ban of 1 July 1993 on asbestos, which is also often overlooked, included an exception for the existing uses of asbestos at that time. The same provision is included in the 2005 Products Decision on asbestos. Although Article 4 of the Decision provides that asbestos and products containing asbestos are prohibited from being manufactured, imported into the Netherlands, held, made available to another person, applied or processed, Article 5 of the Decision removes that prohibition to an important extent. Article 5 provides that the prohibition in Article 4 shall not apply if, as I say briefly, the asbestos product was already installed or in use before the date of entry into force of the 2005 decision. In other words, old existing products simply remain present and are not dealt with by the ban. It follows, therefore, that both the ban of 1 July 1993, which was in line with the 2005 Products Decision, have far-reaching restrictions. Unfortunately, these restrictions mean that there is no obligation to dispose of these products in many situations and that it is still not prohibited to use them. That is a legitimate ban more than 25 years after the ban of 1 July 1993....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... And it certainly doesn't show that public health demands outweigh the economic interests, because that was always the consideration. That's what we saw at Boersma, for example. It says literally in its explanatory statement in the asbestos decision of '77: yes, it is very dangerous, we must certainly ban it, if we do have to weigh up the economic interests. This means that these decisions were stripped more far-reaching. Unfortunately, that balance, i.e. that public health weighs less than economic interests, was a fact. And then the clear warning I was talking about from Stumphius from 1969 is, 50 years after that, now apparently addressed to the government by deaf ears. I would like to draw the attention of the Secretary of State to this. In addition, the enforcement of the 1993 legal ban and the 2005 decision have been poor. Recent practice has shown that, unfortunately, there is no obstacle to the importation of products containing asbestos. So you can still use products that were there in '93. But then you would say: well, then there is certainly a considerable barrier built up at the border that nothing comes in. Forget it. The borders are wide open, and the Minister, addressed to us, did not respond better than that there is no task there for the inspections and the government and that these imports are the responsibility of the importer and the user. When the minister answered that, I thought, "Come on, that can't be true, can it? If you know it's so dangerous and if you know it's just being introduced, which was also recognized by the government, do something about it. I would also like to ask the Secretary of State: are there any plans to actually give up this ban? Otherwise, it's pointless, isn't it? Because then we're not talking about 50 more years of victims, but 100 more years of victims, if we deal with them so laxly. The last point I want to address is the position in business and especially in large companies such as Tata Steel. The extent of the harmful effects of accepting and tolerateing the use of asbestos by the public authorities for years is also reflected in the large number of victims in large companies. Tata Steel at IJmuiden is unfortunately a pressing example of this. Research by our Asbestos Victims Committee, 'us', I say, for the record, I am a co-founder and also a member of the Board of Directors of the People's Newspaper and research has shown on what scale asbestos is used in this company and what number of victims it has led to. Over the last 23 years, 120 workers and former employees of Tata Steel have been affected by the fatal asbestos disease mesothelioma. 120 in 23 years. Converted, over the last ten years, the number of victims has been five a year. Five of these workers pay the price of their lives because they have worked with asbestos. And there is no reason to believe that this number will be substantially reduced in the coming years. One shocking fact must not go unnoticed. Tata Steel, then Hoogovens, later Corus, was already fully aware of the major cancer risk of asbestos in the early 1970s. This is evident from their own internal documents that I have, but the company knowingly made the business interests outweigh the health of its employees. Again, that notorious health-economic balance. In addition, the company Tata Steel has not been made asbestos-free for 25 years after the ban, and that even now Tata Steel is purchasing asbestos-containing products literally, thus purchasing new products from abroad regardless of the legal prohibition and the danger to its employees. One of the workers told me not so long ago that this year negotiations were being held within the department concerned with buying gaskets containing asbestos from abroad. They knew it was forbidden, they struggled about it for a long time, and they decided to buy it. In violation of the law, they were bought. Can you believe that? I would also like to point out that in the explanatory memorandum, the government, of course, agrees with Mr Oomen-Ruijten, explicitly states that there is no obligation to remove working conditions. So on that side, too, an employer is free on that point. They can simply continue with asbestos, especially if it was introduced before '93 and is already in the company. Unfortunately, we know from Tata Steel's large company that there is still a lot of asbestos there. Madam President. Those serious facts, in summary, and the negligence of the government in this regard, have led the Asbestos Victims Committee to decide on this, and that is unique, I think, to file a criminal charge against Tata Steel for manslaughter or death by fault. In fact, it's like you're gonna saddle your staff with a time bomb, and when that time bomb goes off, I think it's just manslaughter. Finally, Madam President, the financial compensation was already discussed by others for owners. A group that I believe is indeed trapped. That is also part of the legislative proposal that we in the SP Group have great difficulty with. It concerns the government's refusal, at least for the time being, to provide the owners with large asbestos slate roofs with financial support. These owners are faced with very significant costs if they were to bear the disposal costs.... others said they would have to take it from their roofs, as the government now envisages. The government indicated that it started financially stimulating the removal of asbestos roofs in the agricultural sector in 2011 through a so-called "Green Deal" and through fiscal measures. For example, the subsidy scheme "Asbestos off, sunshine" was launched in 2013 on the basis of government consultations with the sector. According to my information, agricultural operators have been able to replace asbestos roof panels at a cost of around €30 per square metre, of which they are compensated by the various subsidy schemes over 40%. Those schemes included VAT, an incentive subsidy and the subsidy for sunshine. On the other hand, I note that private owners, not entrepreneurs, are faced with asbestos slate roofs at a cost of, not least, €250 per square metre. Not only is it clear that many of these individuals cannot reasonably bear these costs, but it also raises the question of why double standards are applied here: the large agricultural entrepreneurs are actually being helped with a substantial subsidy, but the individuals, who are often in a much more difficult position, are not getting anything at all. Does the Secretary of State consider it reasonable and appropriate that double standards should be applied here? And does the Secretary of State agree with me that the owner-inhabitants in question are at least entitled to a 40% subsidy towards the government?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-3.u34	I hear concerns for individuals about the affordability of the effects of this law. I'm actually curious about your opinion. Do you agree with me that it would be more logical to regulate this peripheral affordability and not to introduce the law first? So I'm curious; maybe you'll come up with that. You are asking a few questions now, but I am curious about your own opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-3.u35	No, I think it should just happen at the same time. This is not a breaking point for us to adopt the bill, because we should not wait for this bill; the sooner, the better. But this must also be done, absolutely, because these people can't go anywhere, and that's what they're at risk of doing. There too there is the danger, so we need a regulation there as soon as possible. If you do these hand-outs to the agricultural sector, as I understand it, do it to people who are in a similar position and who can afford it even more difficult. So I'd say, right across the street, do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-3.u36	So, Mr President, through you, we could pass a law today, or next week, and then it would remain unclear whether those finances would come. You say it has to be done at the same time. But it hasn't been settled yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-3.u37	Here's what I've got before. I'll tell you in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-3.u38	I'd like another attempt at clarification. Mr Ruers is extremely critical of the efforts of the government in dealing with asbestos. You know a lot about it; that is very clear, and you have said a lot of things about it. At the same time, you also said on half of your speech about the bill, and now you have more or less ended up with it: the sooner the better, it makes an important contribution and we support it. So what exactly is this important contribution he's in? Is that because it makes the air so much cleaner? That's debatable. Is that because it's gonna give so many less victims? That too is disputed. What is this leap forward in particular?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-3.u39	A big leap forward, I believe, comes in another history book. Products contaminated with asbestos constitute a large part of what asbestos is in society. We know it's dangerous because it erodes. It's falling apart. Unfortunately, Asbestos is a mineral with a great quality. Because it's indestructible. It remains in the environment, so any fibre that enters the environment in this way will always haunt us and represent a risk. So we have to start now. Again, we have to start with it and don't forget the rest. I would say: let this be the first step in a lot of steps. But it also means, for example, that the people who work with these asbestos roofs, for example, who have to maintain or replace them, are at great risk, because they are basically working with asbestos. Let me give you an example from practice. As a lawyer, I had a case with a man who worked on an asbestos roof for three days. He was a professional carpenter and he died of mesothelioma. He worked on that roof for three days. We have had the example of Marino Grootenhuis. It was one of my first cases and the situation was extremely sad. A 32-year-old man who was about to get married got mesothelioma. Turned out what? His father had worked at the Eternitfabriek for two years 25 years before. He came home with his overalls. So the boy came to his father's lap every now and then with his overalls came from the factory. That father didn't get sick, even though he had worked at the factory, and that boy died. There wasn't much exposure, but he got sick anyway. So I'm not gonna say, guys, a little exposure is possible. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Scientifically, we know that any exposure, even if it's only one day an hour, could kill you in the end and lead to death. So I'm not going to set any limits. I'm not gonna say, "Oh, that one life is gonna work." I'm very critical of that. But I also know that working with them in practice is quite different. You have to set a line somewhere. Unfortunately, this zero limit cannot be achieved, but we must strive for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-3.u40	Clear. The work-related risk I can very well follow. But Mr Ruers also attended the expert meeting. There it was also about the leaching of these substances towards the weather and the surroundings. There is no scientific evidence that this bill has positive health effects. On the contrary, if we fight it against possible illegal dumping and so on, we might even get worse.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-3.u41	I'm against this dumping and illegal state of affairs. That is why you need to facilitate, enforce and adequately underpin the law as soon as possible and properly as possible. There are certainly scientific reports on this. I know from Jan Templeman of TNO that twenty years ago there was a study in Eindhoven that showed that there was pure environmental pollution in the ground for the house on which the asbestos roofs were located. Those people didn't know that, but the risk was there. The nasty thing about asbestos is, of course, that you don't get sick until after 20, 30 or 40 years. The moment you breathe it, you won't notice, but you'll only know once when it's too late.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-3.u42	I have one more question. I am curious to see how you look at the part of the law that states that under 35 m a private individual can do it himself, regardless of whether it is weathered or not. Above that, a professional repairer has to do it and there is a lot of red tape and also costs, while a different choice is being made in Belgium. I'm curious to hear your opinion on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-3.u43	There are also countries where other choices are made or where nothing is done. I just said zero would be the best limit, but we can't do that in practice. Thus, the report of the Health Council of 2010 prepared by Professor Heederik and Professor Burdorf has been struggling for a very long time. They've made a wonderful report of that. Scientifically, they have it very well for each other. Only then came the translation: how do you do that in practice? In the end, the 35 m was chosen. To some extent, that's arbitrary. In my opinion, you could say 1 m. But I know there's been a lot of wrestling in the ministries. It would be nice if the Secretary of State said something about that. They didn't mention one night of ice at 35 m. I would have preferred it to be much lower, to minimize the risk, but then you get the export limit again. That's the problem we're struggling with. All right, Madam President. I would like to point out that I have, of course, taken note of the discussions on this subject in both chambers, the vague commitments made by the government in the form of 'care' whatever that may be, and an investigation into an asbestos fund, with the important f. But with all due respect, that doesn't make any sense. For this category there is no butter in the fish. That is why, in our opinion, there should be a proper subsidy for the affected owners. If the government does not wish to make that commitment, I am considering tabling a motion on this matter. I look forward with great interest to the reaction of the Secretary of State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-3.u44	Thank you, Mr. Ruers. I give the floor to Mr Koffeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-3.u45	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. East west, asbestos. Asbestos is used throughout the Netherlands in homes, businesses and household appliances. It is cheap, easy and without disadvantages, so was the idea when asbestos was widely marketed. Since the 1930s, asbestos has been known to cause major health damage. Even the women of men who worked with asbestos became seriously ill because of their husband's work clothes being washed by them. Mr Ruers has assisted countless victims in the filing of claims. The fact is that only more than 50 years after the fatal hazards of asbestos became known, a national ban on the use of asbestos was declared. Anyone who knows the book Merchants of Doubt knows that denying serious dangers of harmful substances is a lucrative industry and that sowing confusion is a proven method of delaying or delaying action. Mr. Chairman. Many homeowners are concerned, especially about the cost of cleaning their roof with asbestos. By 2024, it has to be ready, but homeowners often can't make it. It is also an emotional subject, because asbestos is very harmful to health and can cause serious diseases. We have heard enough about this from the previous speakers. Asbestos is a serial killer who sneaks in and has enjoyed the protection of hired dignitaries. The incubation period is 20 to 50 years after exposure. Today, around 750 people die every year in the Netherlands from asbestos-related diseases. They often die within a year after diagnosis and after a substantial sick bed. The Animal Party considers it important that asbestos be banned and disposed of, but this amendment nevertheless raises a number of important concerns. Mr. Chairman. I'm going back to the past. Asbestos was the ideal raw material for decades. In the 1960s and 1970s, the harmful effects of this material could no longer be denied, but it was still years before a total ban was introduced. We know the stories of asbestos factory Eternit in Goor and subsidiary Asbestona in Harderwijk, where workers were exposed to asbestos for decades without protective clothing and where the Labour Inspectorate does not intervene. Asbestos waste was provided free of charge by manufacturers to farmers to harden the yard or roads. We still see a significantly higher number of mesothelioma cases in these regions. Due to a lack of government action and a strong lobby from Eternit, the factories were able to continue their polluting work for a long time and without penalty. The lobby was also politically involved, as evidenced by the fact that Eternit included former directors of Finance, Ferdinand Grapperhaus of the KVP and Fons van der Stee of the CDA. One might ask: what makes ex-directors so influential to stand on the payroll at a controversial company? During the same period, the company managed to stop protective legislation for years. Medical researchers were also employed to minimize the dangers of asbestos. This creates the image of an industry and government that allowed employment and financial gain to outweigh the health of factory workers and their environment. It was not until 1993 that asbestos was banned in construction. And it took until 1999 for the government to put in place the clean-up scheme, the asbestos regime and the Decision on asbestos roads, which dealt with the clean-up of polluted areas. With today's decision, all asbestos must be removed from roofs by 2025. For the Animal Party, the harmfulness of asbestos is beyond any doubt. Numerous national and international scientific studies show that asbestos can lead to cancer even in low exposure and that there is no safe lower limit for exposure. It is also relevant that there is a cumulative risk, which means that each exposure leads to a higher risk of disease. The older the asbestos roof, the stronger the weathering, the more fibers release, the greater the risk for neighbors. Mr. Chairman. There's about 80 million square feet of asbestos roofs left. But the subsidy pot opened in 2016 is already exhausted. The scheme was designed to speed up the process of cleaning up asbestos roofs, and that was well done, according to the Secretary of State. But the EUR 75 million that was in the pot is gone and no new applications can be submitted, so she lets the Chamber know. A subsidy scheme that has been exhausted for three years, while we still have six years until 2025, something is wrong with that, says the Party for Animals. After Fons van der Stee, one of Eternit's patrons, the Secretary of State intends to set up a second fund, an asbestos fund, this year, to finance the removal of asbestos. The Secretary of State thus opts for a switch from grant to financing, i.e. a loan. Not asbestos, but guilt. Why is it not chosen to extend the subsidy scheme, so I ask the Secretary of State? Given the importance of removing asbestos and the high costs involved, would that not be the most logical solution? The fund is partly financed by local authorities contributing in proportion to the amount of asbestos roofing in their province and region. This means that the municipalities have to take stock of the asbestos roofs. The national map of the acceleration approach shows that a large number of municipalities in Groningen, North Brabant and Friesland do not yet have an inventory available. Is it true that the inhabitants of these municipalities will not be able to claim the fund? Will the national government support these municipalities in the inventory? Moreover, the fund is not yet available. That actually makes 2019 a lost year. What's taking so long? Can the Secretary of State indicate when the fund will be operational? Mr. Chairman. Almost three quarters of asbestos roofs are located in farms. Think of stables, sheds and barns. Tubbergen alone, the model village from last year's CDA election commercial, the safest village in the Netherlands, run by the CDA, has the doubtful honor of having 500,000 m of asbestos roofs on a population of 20,000 inhabitants. LTO indicates that 30% of farmers have no money to clean the roofs and that a loan doesn't change anything. That brings with it risks. Asbestos fibres that release threaten the health of the agricultural workers, the neighbors, the animals and the fields. In addition, dozens of barn fires take place every year. These fires not only kill thousands of animals, but also often release asbestos that poses a danger to the environment. Mr Stienen has given examples of what that can mean for the environment. The removal of this asbestos is also costly. Is the Secretary of State prepared to make fire prevention mandatory for old farms? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The VNG and the Association Eigen Huis understandably have serious objections to the way in which the State Secretary has shaped the ban on asbestos roofs. They point out that the easy square meters, sheds, have already been or are being cleaned up, but that the complex asbestos roofs, which are often fitted with asbestos slates, remain in place. Switched roofs can only be renovated together and that requires agreement between residents. A lot of residents can't or won't participate. There are several reasons for this. They're moving out soon. They're already at age. It'll take their time. They can't afford it or the neighborhood won't get it organized because someone has to voluntarily pull the cart. Some residents also give priority to other measures such as the sustainability of their homes. VNH and VEH argue for care to be taken by the municipality or national government from start to finish, also in order to prevent owners from going into business with malicious companies and being put at too high a cost. The Party for Animals agrees. As far as costs are concerned, these are high as homeowners have to have the asbestos removed by certified asbestos removal companies. The market is tight and this is reflected in rapidly rising prices. If it is already possible to ask for a quote that is certainly in the western part of the country a whole challenge.... shows that the prices are many times higher than indicated in the calculation tool of Environment Central. These prices will only increase as the 2025 deadline approaches. Sanitation companies are a bacon buyer. Some regions have prices of €250 per m where €20 per m is a reasonable amount according to experts. These high prices lead people to do their own jobs with all the consequences for their health and their environment. In many cases, the waste is simply dumped. State forest management reports a doubling of asbestos waste in its areas. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. How does she intend to prevent this from taking an even bigger flight in the coming years? Mr. Chairman. The asbestos restructuring industry is a self-regulatory sector. Since 2012, he has been setting his own prices and rules and overseeing compliance himself. There is no incentive for asbestos companies to opt for simple and affordable solutions. The safety at 30% of the asbestos removal sites is also not in order, as we read in the 2016 SZW inspection report. Is the Secretary of State going to take measures to address that problem? Are there any indications that it has improved since 2016? Will there be additional inspections and higher fines? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. There is little point in a ban if it is not enforced. In this case, enforcement lies with the municipalities. The Secretary of State states that municipal enforcement charges will be low because a total clean-up will take place before 31 December 2024. However, the VNG already indicates that the municipalities will not be willing to evict residents because there is still asbestos on the roof, while the owner will logically not be able to pay for the clean-up. Municipalities are not waiting for periodic penalty payments to be imposed on residents who do not have any money. How's the Secretary of State handling that? Is there a plan for that? Isn't that an additional reason to extend the subsidy scheme or to make work of better accompaniment for residents? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. According to the Party for Animals, asbestos must be removed from our roofs. The health risks are too great. But without financial and organisational support from the government, that will not work, not within the deadline. The Secretary of State now places the problem with the property owners, while the government has done nothing against better knowledge in many decades to protect those property owners and the population from asbestos in our working and living environment. This creates a debt of honour that cannot be passed on to citizens. The Party for Animals joins the comments of the Expertise Centre Asbestos & Fibers. I quote: "The Government cannot just say that it is the owner's responsibility. The same Government knew in the mid-60s that asbestos is highly carcinogenic and, despite this knowledge, allowed the use of asbestos until 1 July 1993. In doing so, the Government has made itself the owner of the current problem and must assume its responsibility to ensure a healthy environment." Mr President, we look forward to receiving the response of the Secretary of State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-3.u46	Thank you, Mr. Coffeeman. I give the floor to Mr Atsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-3.u47	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Secretary of State. It is now about a quarter of a century ago that asbestos was banned in the Netherlands. Others have indicated that, too. Unfortunately, there are still casualties to be regretted. This has to do with the long incubation period. Others have pointed this out. In particular, Mr Ruers has given an extensive lecture on the history of asbestos. As far as I am concerned, this was extremely enlightening. His knowledge on this point, which we could have made available to us through sources of information, is a great deal like the one who has graduated specifically on this subject. Madam President. The ban announced by law raises many questions. I didn't count, but at least dozens of questions came along. Some of them are in line with the questions I would like to ask or are going to ask. The question that is of course relevant is whether this is the most effective in dealing with asbestos. Is this ban, if it reaches the finish line, actually feasible and enforceable? The CDA Group will deal with these elements in greater detail. In her explanation of the answers to the questions raised in this Chamber, the Secretary of State states that it is primarily in favour of a sober and realistic approach. Those are words that we wholeheartedly support,'sober and realistic'. This realistic approach was also expressed in the words of several speakers this morning. Is it realistic to expect that by 2025 all asbestos disappeared from rooftops? Madam President. The CDA Group has, among other things, zoomed in on the aspect of "asbestodak" in the question of the legislative proposal. What is the legal sustainability of the concept of asbestos roof? We pointed out at that time that you are of course thinking of corrugated sheets and slates, as several speakers have said this morning, but that there is also quite a bit of asbestos under roof tiles and under reeds. The questions raised in this regard have led the State Secretary to clarify the concept of "asbestodak" in her replies. It is actually asbestos roofing, which is also exposed to sun, wind and rain, and I could add frost to that. All these natural conditions affect possible weathering of plates. In this sense, this clarification is sensible, because it at least gives some clarity to some of the people who have asbestos under roof tiles, reeds or other forms of roofing. However, the question remains whether this definition will remain sufficiently sustainable in the legal sense as well. I am referring, for example, to the option of applying a coating to asbestos sheets, so that the weathering as described by the Secretary of State is in fact no longer at issue. Of course, you could say that this is a processing or processing under the law, but if we have listened carefully to what Mr Ruers has said, it is only a question of whether that remains before the courts and is sustainable. In this sense, I would ask the Secretary of State whether she is convinced that the definition of an asbestos roof covering which she now provides is legally sufficiently sustainable, should it be possible to establish procedures. Madam President. Since 1993, 1994 Dutch legislation has been clarified. There has also been some change in insights. As a Chamber, we had a number of experts to speak not so long ago. We have heard from those experts that, certainly in the field of health risks, insights are not always the same; let me say it with caution. Others pointed that out this morning. The report of the Health Council from 2010 to which reference has been made is now somewhat different from that of nine years ago. The GGD and scientists who spoke clearly had a number of reservations about this. We would like to hear from the Secretary of State how she responds to this point. How does it view the critical notes raised in the 2010 report? I would also like to draw your attention to the letter from Aedes and LTO which we received yesterday, which also zooms in on that aspect.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-3.u48	How does Mr Atsma view his assumption that those who spoke here at the information meeting, or expert meeting, were actually competent and independent? When I think of Mr Helsloot, who makes a paid report on asbestos problems without having any background in that area and then makes far-reaching statements which I do not think he can deliver... I didn't think that was an expert. Did you think that was an expert? I think that's just a paid power coming here to tell me what his client asked of him. That's what he says: Aedes paid us. What Aedes wants to hear, he writes down. Isn't that just questioning by those who have an interest in it, as Mr. Koffeman called it? The industry is always going to cast doubt. And then hope you're right. Isn't that the same with the story Mr. Helsloot kept there? Isn't he just trying to cast doubt when he actually knows better and certainly knows the experts better? It reminds me very much of the climate debate. 97% of all scientists say CO emissions threaten our climate, 3% say they don't. Then there are Dutch people who simply say: it is bullshit; there is no crisis at all or influence by CO. Here too, Mr. Helsloot tells us that asbestos isn't bad, while you can count on your fingers that one and one is two and not three, as Mr. Helsloot says. How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-3.u49	I have no judgment on that. This Chamber has invited a number of experts. All parties were present when the list of experts for the hearing was drawn up. Mr Ruers' party was also present. As a Chamber, we felt that we should invite a wide range of experts with expertise in many areas. I do not doubt the expertise of anyone who spoke to us during the hearing and gave us answers on request. Those questions have also been asked by almost all the groups. It was the Chamber that invited the experts, not because they were not experts but because they were supposed to be experts. Their background seems to confirm that, so I do not have a substantive opinion on this. I am glad that we can always find experts who want to assist us in weighing up laws of this kind. Madam President. The Secretary of State rightly says that this law is also intended to clarify: towards owners, of course, towards insurers, but we can also supplement the list, for example with clarity towards financiers. But if you consider all the contributions this morning, it is the question of whether that clarity really will come. I think it would be a nice thing for all of us to have that clarity, but I have already mentioned a few aspects which, for example, make the legal sustainability unclear. But there are also other questions that I will come back to in a moment, for example in the area of finance, which lead to the question of whether this objective will be clarified. Madam President. There's been a lot of repairs. 40 million square feet of asbestos has been removed. LTO alone calculates that there would be about 80 million square meters left. I am not talking about the other asbestos that occurs in homes, industrial buildings and so on. I therefore agree with the question put by others as to whether there is a better and more accurate assessment of the amount of asbestos still present in the Netherlands, all the more so because a large number of municipalities apparently do not have that inventory in order. What is the reason why this is not done? However, the fact that 40 million square metres have been renovated has mainly to do with the fact that in my opinion there has been quite a large number of attractive arrangements in recent years. In this sense, it is a pity that some of these support schemes are no longer on the table. My question to the Secretary of State is therefore what arrangements it intends to submit to the market players. This concerns both the property owners and the owners of other buildings and buildings. This could perhaps be combined with the fund which several have already spoken of, but whose contours are not yet clear to us. If we look at the 40 million square meters that have been sanitized, you can generally talk about low-hanging fruit. Of course it has been a big task and we are all very happy that we succeeded with the 40 million square meters, but in general, partly because of the arrangements, it was the easiest objects to be repaired, the low-hanging fruit. This means that the remaining 80 million is probably somewhat more complex than what has already been done in recent years. Madam President. As far as we are concerned, enforcement is a very difficult one. The Secretary of State says, "I understand that from the point of view that you assume that by 1 January 2025 all asbestos has disappeared from the roofs, "the enforcement burden is likely to be minimal." But what if everything isn't gone? Many groups expressed their concerns about this this morning. What does that mean? Of course, provinces and municipalities are responsible. But we have heard the UNG and it has made a number of comments which leave nothing to be desired in terms of clarity. Individual municipalities as well. We have also asked the Secretary of State what it means. Of course, you can work with administrative fines, but what does it mean in practice? Does it mean that municipalities will be forced to close up buildings in which asbestos roofs are still in place? They're housing and they're stables. Then what happens to the people and the animals, but also: what happens to the question of the liability of the environment, which might perhaps claim because of health risks? Does that question of liability come with the owners of the property or also one-on-one with the supervisor who should maintain it? The supervisor said that we are not going to do too much about it. So I guess you're gonna be in a new hole after all, huh? We think it is wise that, before you take any further steps, we should be clear about the consequences as regards the health risks to our neighbours. They can go to court because they feel that their living environment entails such risks that they appeal to the one who has to maintain it. For us, then, it is unclear what the effect could be. Maybe the Secretary of State can go into that. By the way, and for the record, the competent authority can still intervene if there is risk and neglect. I refer to Article 1a of the first paragraph of the Housing Act. This in itself already offers every municipality the opportunity to intervene in cases of neglect. In this respect, I am curious about the response of the Secretary of State to this issue. Madam President. Asbestos fibres, Mr Ruers pointed out that some of them are in the asbestos roof, but they are in many more places. What, and then I am back to the legal question from the beginning, when it comes to asbestos fibres resulting from attachment, i.e. asbestos in the façade from the asbestos roof? What do we do with plates on the premises? They are also recognizable everywhere. What do we do with asbestos that goes through the chimneys from the roof? Does that have to be removed, too? In short, this is another point which deserves further clarification. In short, Madam President, there are still many questions and I have not yet mentioned the total cost. Others have made the calculation that was also made during the hearing, ranging from a few tens of euros per meter to much higher amounts. If you are talking about at least 80 million square metres of asbestos roof that needs to be removed, we are talking about billions for the whole of the Netherlands. Well, that's kind of about something. Then I would like to add my voice to the questions raised by colleagues this morning: is this ban, looking at its effects and its effects, feasible, affordable and enforceable? Madam President, I should like to leave it at that in the first instance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-3.u50	Thank you, Mr. Atsma. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-3.u51	Then I'll suspend the meeting for lunch.
