ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u1	The next item is the debate on the continuing problems at the Central Bureau of Driving Certificates. I would like to welcome the Minister of Infrastructure and Water State and the Minister of Justice and Security, the MPs, the people in the public gallery and the viewers at home. Nine speakers have come forward. Everyone's got four minutes. I'd like to agree with you that we'll do two interruptions in half in the first term. First of all, I give the floor to Mrs De Pater-Postma. She is the applicant for this debate. It's her maiden speech at the same time. In the Chamber, we always agree that when someone has their maiden speech, there are no interruptions. I'd say enjoy it; after this moment it's over. Very good luck in the debates in the Chamber. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's really an honor to be standing here. I understand it's a good tradition to say something about yourself in your maiden speech, so here's to it. Mr. Chairman. I was 8 years old when we left Scheveningen with the family by boat to England, not for a holiday but to emigrate. I didn't know the country, I didn't know the language, but I felt like it. I remember looking out the sidewalk, seeing the English coast and thinking: this is my new home. The first day of school was special. During the break, the whole school walked out to look at that new girl from abroad. I was just sitting on the climbing rack so I could consider it all a little bit. There were kids sitting next to me who helped me and took with them. I learned the language, but besides the language, I learned something much more important. I also got acquainted with other habits, traditions and standards, with friends and girlfriends, who got very different things from what I got at home. Some things surprised me, because they were different from what I had been given and I wanted to understand that. I learned to ask questions, many why-questions and always without judgment, because if I had a judgment at the beginning, I noticed that I couldn't understand it. Then I got into a discussion of getting right, right or wrong. By asking the right questions, I increasingly managed to connect those two worlds. So both worlds became my home. It has taught me two things: firstly, to always look critically at why something actually happens or has come about, and secondly, not to judge too quickly and ask the question behind the question, so as to test assumptions and discover how to connect in order to get along. Mr. Chairman. And now for the CBR. A driver's license is so much more than a plastic pink card. A driving licence is a key to independence and a driving licence is crucial for the majority of Dutch people to participate in society. I look at this file with surprise, like that little girl who arrived in that strange country. It does not seem to me that it is so difficult to apply for a driving licence from the government; the government grants a driving licence from the government, but apparently that is going wrong. It's gonna go bad, too. Many people are in uncertainty as to whether their driving licence will be renewed on time. Fortunately, the coulance scheme is going to provide a solution for a very large group. 80,000 Dutch people directly benefit from it. That's what the CDA's happy about, but every day you don't have a driver's license counts. Why can't we do it before December 1st? I understand from the Minister's letter that a check mark must be built into the ICT system and that nothing can happen until then. Again, my surprise. That doesn't seem so difficult to me and should be able to do faster? Where can the process be accelerated? The Chamber has expressed its wish to allow this to take place on 31 October. Is the Minister prepared to make an effort to this end? Mr. Chairman. Then the compensation. Deal's a deal. If you don't keep a deal as a government, it's as neat as you are the one facing the duped. The CDA asks the Minister to come forward with appropriate compensation for the people who are without a driving licence due to the long waiting periods, in addition to the declaration possibilities already in place. As a Chamber, we have asked SWOV to present options for possible system changes. The Minister states in her letter that SWOV could come up with an investigation plan in October. When will the investigation be completed? Can the Minister indicate a timeline? In last night's report, the Minister states that, in the most positive case, in the summer of 2020, he has eliminated the queue at the CBR, and in the worst case, only two years from now. You can't explain that, can you? My big question to the Minister: does she accept this ambition? Or is she going to fight for the ambition of getting everyone's driver's license sooner, for example by February 2020? And if the Minister is going to make an effort to do this, what does that path look like? Where else can it tighten up in this process? Mr. Chairman. This summer, the Minister announced that inland navigation certificates would also be regulated through the CBR. Until now this has been done by an organization where there is no problem. Are you sure this is wise? Can the Minister take this back? Can the Minister promise that this will go smoothly and that there will be no delay in this? Mr. Chairman. I understand that if a MP leaves the Chamber, the maiden speech will be remembered. My big wish, I hope, is that when I leave the Chamber, the queues at the CBR are resolved and that everyone gets their license in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u3	Thank you for your lovely maiden speech. I shall suspend the sitting for a single moment so that your colleagues can congratulate you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u4	I would like to give the floor to Mr Laçin of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to congratulate Mrs De Pater once again. I think we're gonna run into each other a lot. When I listen to the content like that, I think we can find each other often, especially on this file. Mr. Chairman. This is the third debate on the problems at the CBR within six months. That's not a good sign. In those six months the problems have actually gotten bigger and bigger, we now notice. Thousands of people, mainly 75-plussers and people with a condition, do not get their license extended in time due to the chaos at the CBR. That has enormous consequences. The SP has been stressing for years that something is thoroughly wrong with the CBR and that the Minister must intervene. A new director, a new supervisory board, Pier Eringa: they are not the solution in the short term. The Minister wrote in her letter last night that the problems were not resolved until mid-2020 or even in 2021. How is this possible? For nine months now, the CBR has been under enhanced supervision and the Minister has only now come forward with this information. People at home just want to know when it's over with this shit. People like Katja, who emphasized that her father threatened to become isolated after her mother's death because his license was not renewed. And Dolly's husband, who has a mild form of Alzheimer's. Every year his driving licence must be renewed. In February they already started the process of extending the driving licence that expired in August, and the driving test is only scheduled for 15 October. So he hasn't been able to drive for a month and a half. There'll be another month and the trial after that. That is unacceptable as far as we are concerned. In order to meet 75-plussers, the Minister has drawn up a coulance scheme. This allows people who make their application on time to drive for one year with a expired driving licence. This regulation will enter into force by 1 December of this year at the latest, because different systems still need to be adapted so that the police can continue to maintain them. But can the Minister guarantee that this was done on 1 December? Those who talk about adapting ICT systems and the government are immediately holding on to their hearts, because they are often not doing well. My question to the Minister of JenV is: is there really any maintenance? In the letter sent earlier, we can read that the Minister of JenV actually says that enforcement is not possible. So I'd like an explanation on that. What do we do with the people who make all kinds of extra costs until 1 December? That's what I heard Mrs. De Pater say. Will this Minister of IenW implement my unanimously adopted motion on compensation measures and come up with a generous arrangement for all these people? Otherwise, I will be forced to table another motion or support Mrs De Pater's motion. I'd like a response. And is it not time to follow the model used in Belgium, Germany and the United Kingdom, where there is no age limit and general practitioners have an alerting function? Another trip to the coulance scheme. This is specifically about 75-plussers, but there is of course another group that is affected by the problems, namely people with a condition. They often have a stable disease and a medical condition that does not affect driving fitness. Can this Minister also look at a similar coulance scheme for this group, so that they too can drive if they can demonstrate that their application has been made on time and their medical condition has no effect on their fitness to drive? Then there are a few short points. I.T. first. The Minister says in the media that the problem is above all the lack of medical examiners, medical advisers. But when I read that existing medical advisors need to be trained for weeks and new medical advisors for months in order to master the system, we can say that the new OPUS system is actually failing, that it is not working. Is there anything the Minister can do to improve this? Just a few last sentences, Mr. Chairman. As far as we are concerned, it is unacceptable for the government to put so many people in trouble and not give them home. There are no solutions before 2020, and it is not even certain whether the coulance regime will be able to enter into force on 1 December. I would like to hear today from this Minister what she is going to do in concrete terms to compensate people and what generous arrangement she is going to make for them. That must now be settled quickly and by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u6	Thank you, Mr. Laçin. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van Brenn, who is 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 50PLUS is done. The current of the downed 75-plussers keeps coming in through the chaos at the CBR. In the summer months, the current has only increased. They have requested an extension on time and a positive medical check-up in their pockets, but they can't drive anyway. I thought after the last debate: we have the solution; the Minister is moving forward, and 75-plussers are allowed to drive a year longer. The CBR would then have time to put things in order. It had to be introduced quickly. Our motion for a quick coulance regulation has been passed. I thought, "Great, we're good to go." But it's not gonna happen now. The Minister of Justice and Security says that enforcement is not possible. Why not? Is this unwillingness? Come on, give me a tooth! We really need to implement these motions as far as we are concerned. For us, it is unacceptable that this should not happen. And yesterday's letter really doesn't bring the redeeming word. No, they're just more worried. This is particularly true of the sentence "The provision of information from the CBR to the Ministry needs an improvement." Yeah, yeah. So until now, nothing was right. Problems would have been solved by the summer of 2021 at the latest. For ICT issues and the public authorities, as my colleague said, we still need to see it. We haven't believed it in a long time, because it's taking way too long. The Covenant of Insurers has indicated that they want to exercise coulance. But, yes, if the call is that the other side, the criminal side, doesn't cooperate, then what do we have to do about the liability side? Insurers want to think along; why can't the police? Can the Minister explain that? Why isn't there a bypass to think of? And what exactly are these ministries afraid of? That all those 75-plussers are going out on the streets now, causing accidents and then blaming the CBR? Bullshit, of course! These people are now the victims of a government problem. And in this case, it is still two months before that general measure of governance takes effect. Is the Minister prepared to provide assistance to those people who can prove, on the spot or if necessary afterwards, that they have complied with the extension requirements? Mr. Chairman. The CDA colleague, I would like to congratulate her on her wonderful maiden speech, which also mentioned the cost. I believe that we have promised that the additional costs will be reimbursed. We get questions about that, including from KBO-Brabant. What is covered by these additional costs? Bad guys say they're getting pretty good. They have double costs. Sometimes a specialist has lost something and has to do it again. Insurance runs for months while the car is not used. Extraordinary costs for arranging and paying extra transport. Handler care and other tasks. What's in it? Can these costs also be declared? The Minister states that the Stichting Scientifice Onderzoek Verkeerheid (Stichting Scientifice Onderzoek Verkeerheid) is going to start a study in which the age limit is set. That's good. But how long is that gonna take? When can we expect more of that? And is this gonna be for the summer of 2021? Maybe we can go through this in one go. We are saddened by the fact that the Minister responsible has been led by her colleague. As far as we're concerned, fix it now! Now, and not later. Mr President, if I may... I received an e-mail in which someone suggested that the Minister responsible and the Secretary-General of her ministry should turn in their driving licences as long as no adequate solution had been found. Now Mr Dekker does not know that the minister has a driver, but perhaps both rulers should consider it. They'll know what these people are going through.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u8	Thank you very much, Mrs Van Brenn. I would like to give the floor to Mr Schonis of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Like Mr Laçin, I also received a lot of personal emails with personal stories. I got an e-mail from Rieneke. Her story, I think, is a very good example, or rather: a very bad example of what we are talking about here today. I'll read you the e-mail. "I am now witnessing in my vicinity how the misery at the CBR intervenes in the lives of the elderly. Sir is almost 80, good at the time and fit. He has to take his 75-year-old wife to the hospital regularly. If the weather is good, they went with the electric bike until recently. However, she has so many problems with her blood vessels in her leg that she can't do it anymore. He used to drive his own car all the time. But, yeah, he can't anymore. He's been waiting for his driver's license to be renewed for over five months since April. That is why they are now dependent on transportation by my son and my daughter-in-law." Mr. Chairman. So that's what we're talking about today, when we're talking about the problems at the CBR: thousands of older and younger people who get into trouble without their fault by a non-functioning government institution. Mr. Chairman. Up to three times, the Chamber, by a large majority, has called on the Cabinet to come forward with a coulance regulation. Preferably before 31 October, as requested in the last motion of July. A coulance scheme for 75-plussers. A consultant hired by the Minister himself also indicates this: this is the solution to eliminate waiting times at the CBR. In fact, it recommends that the scheme be introduced not by 31 October but by 1 October. This is the only way to get rid of the entire backlog of the CBR at once, so that more room is created for the CBR to assess the files of others, especially young people. Well, you'd say, so do it! But unfortunately... Among other things, the Minister objects that she does not want people to drive around uninsuredly. Of course, that is understandable in itself, but last month the Association of Insurers herself indicated that it would like to be able to act as a coulance for its customers. Then why didn't the Minister consult with the Insurance Association? Get in touch with the alliance and fix this. Mr. President, this is him. I am holding in my hand the Arrangement requirements for fitness 2000. This contains a list of diseases for which you must be examined at the CBR. It's 60 sides, so I double-sided it, otherwise it's gonna cost too many trees. What about the advice requested by the Health Council on the latest insights into the unnecessary requirements in this scheme? Think of autism, for example. Does any medical condition on this list affect the ability to drive in a negative way in all cases? For someone with only one leg, it's not gonna grow up soon, so why does he have to repeat it all the time? See which groups of which medical conditions are risky in terms of road safety and determine which medical conditions and which cannot qualify for CBR verification. Mr President, I will conclude. I started my speech with an e-mail from Rieneke, and I have received many and many more e-mails, letters and disturbing notes. I know that this also applies to many colleagues in the Chamber. I want to be able to tell Rieneke and all those other people after tonight that there's just gonna be a solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u10	Thank you. First of all, there is an interruption by Mr Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u11	I am very much in favour of Mr Schonis van D66's plea on medical conditions. That's what I mentioned myself. I have also put forward a concrete proposal to give people with a stable picture of their ability to drive a similar coulance scheme to 75-plussers, which we are discussing now. What would Mr Schonis think of that? In addition, road safety must, of course, be at the top of the list.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u12	This last addition is, of course, a very important one, because ultimately it is about road safety. Yeah, I'm sure I can agree with that. It is true that the coulance regulation that the Minister has currently developed in the AMvB is very specific to 75-plussers. So there should be a new one for that, but I can imagine that the Minister can do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u13	My interruption is in line with that, because I was talking about a 70-year-old who faced the same problem. It is therefore a good thing that D66 is also open to this. But I hear D66 addressing very specifically the Minister of Infra and Water, while the problem seems to really be with Security and Justice: the police cannot, the police have trouble, the police this, the police that. I hear so little about that. So my question is whether you also have your reservations. In any case, you have supported this minister coming to the Chamber. How do you view the role of Security and Justice in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u14	Yes, Mrs. Van Brenk, I've read the letter, too. By the way, the government speaks with one voice. In the letter, the Minister of IenW said that she had spoken with her colleague in the field of security and justice and indeed concluded that there was an enforcement problem there. That's what she says at two moments, by the way. She says that both in response to last week's questions by Mrs Van der Graaf and in last night's letter. So I certainly, like you, would very much like to know from the Minister of Justice what this is about. I'm very curious to hear his answer. But my call remains the same, and I think yours too: solve this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u15	Mrs. Van Brenk, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u16	I understand I'm getting support from D66. I asked for a bypass, and I'm assuming we're about to hear the Minister's creativity. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u17	No doubt, but you have to be careful with bypasses, because they are also on the list in that scheme! I've got it right here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u18	Last night, we received a letter from the Minister outlining the prognosis that the CBR in the worst case scenario is in order by mid 2021. That's unacceptable to the PVV. I'd like to hear how D66 looks at that. Does D66 agree with the PVV that this is unacceptable?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u19	I agree with you that this is certainly not a desirable situation. I'm gonna stay out of these heavy-duty qualifications for a while. I want a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u20	Mr Van Aalst, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u21	One more time, just to be clear. You do not want to use big words, but do I understand from your words that 2021 is acceptable for D66? This is unacceptable to the PVV. I don't care how the minister does it, but for us it's absolutely unacceptable. Do I find D66 on my side, or do you say, well, if it's not different, then so be it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u22	You have just heard me three times this would be the fourth time that he has called for a coulance regulation and a solution. I think that's enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u23	Thank you, Mr. Schonis. Then I give the floor to Mr Dijkstra of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u24	Mr. Chairman. A driving licence is important for many people to be able to go to work, to be mobile and to enjoy freedom. For the elderly, it is a specific way of avoiding social isolation. The VVD wants order with the CBR, because the waiting period for the renewal of a driving licence has been greatly delayed. What was once four months could be nine months now. That is inconceivable and unacceptable. Many people get into trouble if their driving licence cannot be renewed in time. As a representative of the people, you'll know who you're there for. A driver's license is much more than a pink card. It's evidence to be mobile and to celebrate your freedom. In the Netherlands it is nice, because people with medical disabilities can and should drive, but must be assessed extensively by an expert doctor. What about the expansion of medical capacity? This has been requested in my previous motion, which I believe has been accepted by Parliament. The intention was more capacity and faster reviews. Every day harrowing stories appear in my and everyone's mailbox. If you can help people, there were already some names called, of course, it's beautiful, but it's just a drop. That is why, I think, it is inevitable that we will look at structural adjustments for the longer term within the CBR working process. Yesterday, the Minister delivered a shocking letter. After a comprehensive inventory of the ongoing problems of the CBR, it simply appears that problems such as overload, poor accessibility and long deadlines have not yet been resolved. The CBR was already under curatel, but if it is even difficult to turn in the correct figures, I think we are only at the beginning. When I read that the mountain applications will only become stable in the first quarter of 2020 and can only decrease afterwards, this is a major concern. Although the Cabinet indicates that there may be an arrangement in force on 1 December that can provide enormous relief, that is not enough for the VVD. Healthy 75-plussers then no longer need to be judged. That's automatic, which makes a profit. But apparently it's hard to settle that sooner. I would therefore like us to work to get the regulation, the AMvB, through the Chamber as soon as possible. This morning, we also took a step forward in the procedural meeting. That's good. Mr. Chairman. The CBR has not been able to anticipate the changes properly. The management of the CBR is really something to blame. It is good that the Minister intervenes. The employees of the CBR are doing their best; we all know that. But if the structure is not in order, it is never optimal. I would like to ask the Minister whether the administrative extension scheme, which is now being proposed, cannot be properly implemented. Why do we use 75 years and not 80 years, for example? Why not just abolish the entire age limit and adopt a risk-driven approach? What else can we do in the process?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u25	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Van Aalst.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u26	A good point and indeed a good moment for my interruption. We have also thought about how to increase capacity at the CBR. For example, how does the VVD view the idiotic directive from Europe to introduce code 95 for all truck drivers? Some have been a truck driver for 40 years and now suddenly have to prove that they are fit to drive. What do you think about just putting that on the long track and using the capacity for all those injured people who are now without a license?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u27	I think those questions will be reflected in your own contribution. I am very curious if the Minister thinks that this can provide relief. I do not know the figures behind this, also because I think the figures we received yesterday are quite debatable. Let's get these in order first and then see what we can do about structural adjustments and relief. Then I also have questions for the Minister of Justice. In the letter he explicitly turned against a tolerant construction. It was in the motion of CDA and D66 in June. He says the police can't do anything with that toleration. Can the Minister of JenV explain that to me? How fair is it if someone gets a fine for driving without a driver's license, when the application was made in good time and was complete? Because, in fact, we know that a semi-state organization has simply failed. Can't there be a warning? How many cases are we talking about? Why does this Minister not want to stand down, even in the light of the arrangement that is to come? I'd like a response. Mr President, my time may run again! It is not just about the elderly, but also about SMEs. They sometimes have to wait too long for medical examinations and their assessments. Do you recognize that? In order to catch up quickly with the delays in the applications under examination, it is important that we get a look at them. It is therefore good that the CBR will immediately inform the Chamber. I do not yet have any idea how the CBR wants to deal with the delays. Why do I see in the numbers I get, that there's only 4% overtime? If there's a problem, you'd say you're going on 24/7, or you're going on 24/7, until the backlogs are resolved. Isn't it possible to do that faster with a can of people? Why doesn't it just plow through the weekend and at night? Mr. Chairman. The harrowing cases, the sweetness and suffering of people who end up in the middle of months with the CBR are impressive. I want this Minister to explain what steps she has taken and what she expects to take. I think I've had everything now. We talked about the AMvB this morning. I hope that the Chamber will be united on the issue of the AMvB, the amendment of the regulations on driving licences, as I believe it is called. We must indeed get that AMvB through the Chamber as soon as possible, because then we will at least have it ready on 1 December. I think everyone agrees on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u28	I heard Mr Dijkstra talking about 75-plussers and SMEs, but as I mentioned earlier in a question towards Mr Schonis, there are also a lot of people with a medical condition who are simply fit to drive but have to go through that mill again and again. Those people do that, whereas their condition does not affect their ability to drive and they can prove it. The fact that they can prove that is an important addition. Do you think, perhaps apart from this change and because we should not stop or delay it, that there should also be a coulance scheme for that group of people? Once again, road safety will be guaranteed and they will be able to continue for another year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u29	The latter is essential, because road safety must be guaranteed. I cannot judge that as a Member of Parliament. I think we are dependent on specialists and sometimes specialists sometimes contradict each other, because what is a condition and to what extent does it affect your ability to drive? I therefore await the advice of SWOV and others. They have more sense of that than I do, but if there are groups that we can help in one way or another by alleviating their problems with an exception, I certainly think that is worth further study.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u30	Mr Laçin, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u31	I also think it is difficult to judge as a Member of Parliament whether 75+ can continue driving. But we do, because we did demand the back-up for those 75-plussers. The Minister came up with that, too. It is not up to us to judge, but if we wait for SWOV research, nothing will happen in this area until mid-2020. That is unacceptable for the SP as with the 75-plussers, because these people also make double costs and cannot get on the road. Therefore, again the call to the VVD: are you prepared to consider a coulance scheme for people with a condition, where road safety is not at stake? Shouldn't we do that faster than 2020?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u32	In fact, I don't think what's in there right now is a coulance regulation. It means extra time to get the opportunity to renew your driver's license. I really think that's a difference. I've lost your other question. Looking good, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u33	That's always a good reaction! Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Van Aalst of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Another debate on the CBR! And as we are used to, the Minister comes back with some news in the media just before such a debate to show how busy she has been. In the meantime, however, the solution is being postponed. The PVV would therefore like this minister to be less involved in his own public relations and more active action. But yes, Mr President, you have to do something if you want to be the first female Prime Minister of the Netherlands! Mr. Chairman. Today, therefore, the NOS reports that the Minister wants to appeal to retired doctors and part-time doctors. It's like V-K. The motion calling for the capacity of medical staff to expand at the CBR was adopted unanimously in April. Then why is the Minister only now making this call? If she couldn't bring that up with a little more urgency, the PVV will ask through you, Chairman. Mr. Chairman. The minister has now handed over the wheel to Pier Eringa. In addition to the Supervisory Board, he will support the Executive Board of the CBR. Now a man known for his rather nuanced and tactful approach may give some advice. The PVV says if you chain Pier Eringa, the elephant in the porcelain cabinet, then all his slaughter power is gone. So give him a mandate to clean up this mischief and straighten out this mess. Mr. Chairman. If we are talking about "cleaning up," is the former director really away from the CBR or is she still enjoying a sweet job after the damage she caused? I'd like an update from this minister. Mr. Chairman. With substitute shame, the PVV has read the Minister's letter saying that this mess will continue to pierce for another two years. Two years! How many people are we gonna fall into this mess? It's really shameless. We want short blows and quick results. That means extra capacity on the customer service phone lines and on the mailrooms and that all those incompetent drivers need to get out of the way and be replaced by people who do know how to run an organisation. Mr. Chairman. If you want to get breathing space at the CBR, you will also have to draw a line through the issues that do not relate to the core problem. Take, for example, the code 95, which just passed: all additional training for drivers because of an idiotic, retarded European directive. If the Minister were to draw a line through this EU interference, we would free that capacity again from the real problems. By allowing the CBR to run around with everyone, the Minister himself is responsible for the fact that people are without a licence, a driving licence that is so very important for your mobility and your freedom. You can't lose that because the Minister doesn't have her affairs in order. That minister's just gonna take away your freedom. And it's too crazy for words to be heard from a member of parliament and that they will be helped in no time if that member of parliament continues their problem to the CBR? Of course, that's very nice for these people, but it's a totally wrong policy, isn't it? It seems that the CBR likes to give priority if it thinks it can get a white foot. And apparently it is possible! The CBR seems to be able to resolve these issues quickly and quickly. The question is: why doesn't that apply to all those people who haven't turned a camera on themselves? Can the Minister tell whether this arbitrariness is being addressed at the CBR? The CBR also seems to be throwing the tariffs up next year, while it's still a mess with this agency. Where do you get the guts? The PVV would therefore like to urge the Minister to make a bold line by setting any further tariff increase for 2020. It is impossible for the CBR to raise prices in this situation. Finally, Mr President. The PVV does not want to distribute sweeteners in the form of compensation. People who are suffering are not waiting for a ticket or dinner ticket, but want their driver's license back and thus their freedom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u35	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Van der Graaf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u36	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. First of all, I warmly congratulate Mrs De Pater on her maiden speech, in which she expressed the hope that the problems at the CBR had been resolved at the time she was leaving the Chamber. Let me now express the hope that it will go far beyond that period and be a member of this Chamber for a long time to come. Like everyone else in this room, the Christian Union receives and I personally receive a lot of letters from people who have been duped. The moment you depend on the car and a valid driver's license to go to work, provide care, go to family visits or just shop, and you don't have the extension in time, you really get in trouble. The consequences of the problems at the CBR therefore affect a lot of people in the Netherlands. I believe that we, as a Chamber, are united on the urgency of the problem and I am also in agreement with the cabinet on this. Trust in the CBR as an implementation organisation has fallen to a low point. The concern of the Christian Union is also wider, namely about the implementation organisations in general. Those are the places people meet the government. That's where it has to work, right? Disappointingly, that is not the case. Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union is pleased that the AMvB is now ahead and hopes that it will proceed quickly, so that an administrative extension of their driving licence will at least be arranged for the 75-plussed group as soon as possible. It creates air at the CBR, but also for people. They can still use their driver's license. I ask the Minister how many people this arrangement offers a solution for. And after seeing the really bad figures that reached us yesterday and that show that the problems are going to last much longer, possibly until the summer of 2021, I also ask the Minister whether the one-year extension will provide sufficient relief. I realise that there is an extension option in the AMvB, but I would ask the Minister how she looks at it. Mr. Chairman. This arrangement is a significant step for that group of 75-plussers. Is the Minister also prepared to look at how she can accommodate people with a medical condition? There are also many frustrations among them. And are there also 75-plussers with a expired driving licence that are currently excluded by the definition in the current AMvB, which calculates with applications as of 31 December 2018? Or is this gonna get the whole group? Following an e-mail with a question from someone, I wondered whether the extension of the driving licence under this scheme would also lead to a valid driving licence abroad. Can you rent another car with it? I'd like a response from the Minister to that. Mr. Chairman. The elderly unions have written to me that the fastest way to get help at the CBR is if you submit a digital application. But a lot of older people are not entirely on the digital road. Is the Minister prepared to look at the possibility of assisting older people in applying for an extension of a driving licence by digital means? An analogy has been sought with, for example, the completion of income tax. That's a question for the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the point about which I have also put questions to the House. The Association of Insurers has called on its members to be coulant with people with expired driving licences. From there, a signal goes out that makes people think: can I or can I not go on the road with a expired driver's license? That signal's unclear. The Minister actually said in the answers to my parliamentary questions that she does not recognize that problem. I ask the Minister to communicate clearly what the norm is, so that there is clarity about it. I'm also asking if she can call the Association of Insurers to come back to this. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the question of whether the process in which an examiner is needed can be speeded up, for example, by making the report of an examiner immediately at the time of the application. I see that my time is actually up, but I'd like to sketch this out, if that's all right with you. The process is not efficient right now. Many people believe that they have to endure unnecessary inspections. Seniors should wait after the first application at the CBR for the message in which they are referred to an AME, but they also have to go to a GP. I wonder if that can't be accelerated. Mr President, I shall leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u37	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Stoffer of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u38	Mr. Chairman. I will of course also begin with congratulations to Mrs De Pater for a wonderful maiden speech. I understand now why we didn't meet this morning at breakfast about the Delta Plan Mobility: you had to prepare this. I'm just saying, because then Mr. Van Bruggen of the ANWB will have lost the anger he expressed this morning because you weren't there. So I'm just gonna do that right away, because then that's all straightened out. No, that was just a joke. We've already talked about this. Don't ever take me too seriously in that respect. But from now on, Mr. Chairman. 'Cause if you were a minister, you wouldn't have a service car. Mrs Van Brenk already referred to that. For Minister Grapperhaus, that would still work. I think he can get on the race bike, but I still think you're getting there a little later and a little harder. That is the situation in which thousands of older people and young people are present and as has been outlined on many occasions. They don't have a driver's license, so they can't go anywhere. Let me outline the situation of a 58-year-old MS patient, as many have already done. She's been on a expired driver's license since April. She's turned everything in, but the CBR is still not able to hit it. I think we can conclude that this is an unacceptable course of action. Mr. Chairman. I should like to make two brief points. That's the temporary decision and the over-inspection. First, the temporary decision. The Minister expects the temporary decision to be implemented by 1 December. It's just taking way too long. Actually, I think we agree on that. If we, as the Chamber, are to deal with the front wall quickly and if urgent advice is to be requested from the Council of State, I believe that we should be able to deal with this much more quickly. 'Cause people with no driver's license can't go anywhere right now. I think that's worth an emergency procedure. I hope we can agree on that. Mr. Chairman. Both the CBR and the RDW apparently need time to adapt their systems. But I think it's basically just a note in the driver's license register. That doesn't take so much time, does it? Does the Minister not want to make every effort, if possible, to adjust a sleeve there before 1 December? Mr. Chairman. The reason why we have also supported the request to ask Minister Grapperhaus to be present this evening is the following. We understand that insurers are prepared to look forward to the entry into force of the arrangement with coulance, but that the police do not like it and that therefore the Minister cannot be a coulant either. I can understand that, but if you look at it practically: how often will that happen now? I think one phone call from the police station to the CBR can explain very quickly what's going on. Mr. Chairman. I see in the report by the Galan Group, a sharp report, that after analysis they are calling for the administrative paper extension to be introduced as early as 1 October. Why can't these ministers just deal with this together? Mr. Chairman. Let me briefly mention the number of inspections. I continue to find it difficult for drivers who have submitted the report of a fellow specialist to be regularly sent by the CBR to another doctor. I have the impression that there is unnecessary referral. One example I would like to mention is that of a youngster with the diagnosis of autism. The psychiatrist does not see any problem with driving, but there is still a separate driving test to be carried out. The Health Council is going to investigate the system of medical examinations, but a lot of time is taken for that. Why does the Minister not opt for a two-stage rocket, with a short-term advice on picking low-hanging fruit? I understand that there are still complicated things, but put it in a long-term report for the whole system. Because the sooner we can relieve the workload of the CBR, the better. In short, I call for swift action to address the unnecessary inspections as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u39	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Ploumen of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u40	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, a warm word and congratulations to Mrs De Pater. She said a driver's license is so much more than a plastic card. I think we all feel that way. Mr. Chairman. I am not the spokesman for the CBR, but I am allowed to replace Gijs van Dijk who is unfortunately ill. However, I also received countless emails and letters from people who asked: can you do something for me, because I started a procedure for a new driver's license in March/April, I called and called again, I was sent from the locker to the wall and back again. That is actually very sad, because they are very often people for whom the car is the ticket to freedom. They can no longer provide care or they can no longer go to the grandchildren. That's not because they did something wrong themselves, but because the government doesn't. That is very sad, I repeat to all other colleagues. Mr. Chairman. I have a number of questions for the Ministers. The first is about the treatment of people who make an application and try to call the CBR. I brought a letter from a lady who called a few times. They're either unreachable or they say, "Call me back." Can the Minister promise us that she will talk to the CBR and remain on the subject of treatment? If you're waiting for something, nothing is as horrible as being properly spoken. Then let the CBR say honestly: sorry, it's a mess here, we can't help you. But the CBR shouldn't make people feel like it's their fault. I'd like a response. My second question is to the Minister of JenV. That question was just asked by Mr Stoffer. And Mrs. Van Brenk said it better than I can do it myself. Is there not, now that the insurance companies also want to show a coulance, a bypass for people who have ended up in that entire route without fault and who are driving with an unexpanded driver's license? Why, I ask Minister Grapperhaus, can't the police be a little too generous? Otherwise, these people on the one hand will face a government that is gonna choke on them and on the other hand a government that is gonna keep on a subject that I would say is: be a little cool.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u41	The latter is really a bit the government's fault, that people get into trouble, if they've been timely in everything. That's too bad. However, I would like to ask a question about these insurers. I also got that letter from the Association of Insurers. They do say, however, that we cannot impose a binding obligation on our members. They do that from, as they call it, a certain coulance, because they also have a certain pot for it, but you are not sure in advance whether every insurer will do so. It'll just be your insurance company who doesn't. Is that not an additional plea to encourage Mr Grapperhaus to make some movement? Otherwise, we won't get there. It can't be that that stays in the dark after tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u42	I fully agree with the colleague. I would also like to pass on the question to Mr Grapperhaus, but I would also like to say to the insurers: everyone has a father, a mother, an uncle, an aunt, a neighbor, who is now dealing with these problems, so just move in there and arrange something. I would also like to say this to Mr Grapperhaus. Mr President, then there is a specific group affected. Those are the truck drivers. Some of the truck drivers can use an emergency procedure if they need an extension. It's all going very well. It is also nice to say in this debate that something is going well. But there's a small group of truck drivers who need a medical retest. They end up at the top or at the bottom. That depends on how you want to say it. At least they're gonna end up in that huge pile somewhere. So they also have to do with these incredibly long waiting times, while of course it is their daily bread. I would like to ask the Minister whether something can be done about this now. My impression is that that's possible. Perhaps I should reword the question: when can the Minister tell us that she has done something about it, so that those truck drivers no longer have to wait? Finally, Mr President. All kinds of investigations and actions have been launched. This gives a bit of the image of action, but at the same time we are not going to notice anything until 2020. A study is being conducted by SWOV. The plan is finished by the end of October. Of course, that's gonna take forever. Here's what I'm asking the Minister. Research has been done before, in 2011. Is there still so much research to be done? Are the suggestions that all colleagues have actually made not just the list that needs to be implemented now? It's always good to see how you can improve a system. My impression is next. This Chamber has already debated it three times. We've all become a specialist in this case. We've made excellent suggestions, so follow them up and let that investigation go. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u43	Thank you very much, Mr Ploumen. The two directors have indicated that they do not need suspension. First, the Minister of Justice and Security will answer all your questions. The Minister for Infrastructure and Water State states that it will use this time to prepare the answers to the questions asked to it. I give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u44	Mr. Chairman. At least this evening I was referred to as a colleague of the Members of Parliament. I think that my fellow resident, Mrs Ploumen, will later distance himself from this. Would you not point out to me that, as a ruler, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Wytske de Pater? She made her maiden speech at a very special time, especially when you went to England when you were 8 years old. It's been 50 years this month since Abbey Road appeared from The Beatles. We can say quietly that that was a turning point in modern Western culture. I will not take you here throughout the entire record, but I would nevertheless like to give Mrs De Pater that, in my opinion, MP I have never had to taste it myself. But as the Beatles at the end of Abbey Road speak to us: you're gonna carry that weight. Mr. Chairman. Some of you, especially Mrs Van Brenk and Mrs Ploumen, very directly using the word 'bypass', have asked whether, on top of the extension scheme, there can be some kind of coulance application until the AMvB and the underlying systems are all working and correct. According to the old tradition of the series Columbo, I want to tell you the plot of my story right away. And he really can't do that for good reasons. I listened to a piece of today's arrangement, but it's just the cabinet that looked at this point. Of course, it is right that you should be the first person to ask me about it. I would like to stress that it is an extremely annoying problem for the people who are affected; I have already had an exchange of views with the standing committee on this subject in a general discussion. That is why I finally said: let us at least participate in such an extension of the AMvB, by which we change the regulations on driving licences, and put them together as soon as possible, even if this leads to additional acts for the police. Because as a ruler, I felt, partly on behalf of the cabinet, that we should at least be able to meet those 75-plussers at the point of a year longer driving. This AMvB is currently in front of both Rooms. Both chambers, including the First Chamber. Then the AMvB goes to the Council of State. We have to go through that process with each other as soon as possible. We really must do everything we can to ensure that this regulation is implemented. Mr. Chairman. This is also really how it goes with regulation. I understand and sympathise with Mrs Ploumen and Mrs Van Brenn. And I also believe Mr Dijkstra, otherwise I will do him wrong, and I should not do that. I understand the plea very well. But unfortunately, I have to play a bit of the role of gatekeeper here. We did the AMvB extension scheme. Just for the sake of the people at home, we cannot, while we are still asking for permission and asking for advice on an exception, say in advance that we are going to do it in advance. That really is a problem in terms of legislation. Now we are sitting here with each other and looking each other in the eye and saying: well, we might want to do that. But that creates a precedent for future processes in this area. As Minister of Justice and Security, I cannot go along with that. This is a cabinet position, let us be clear about that. We're really telling each other that that wouldn't go well. Mr. Chairman. There is a second point. I'm just waiting for my points to get through to all Members of Parliament. There are now sounds coming from the room... My second point is that the solution that is coming must be safe and manageable. For enforcement, it is important for a police officer on the street to know whether a driver is eligible for the scheme. That agent must have access to the systems and that information must have been entered into those systems. So you can only introduce the scheme once it is settled. Then you don't have an enforcement problem right away. A side-point here is the need to prevent abuse of this tolerance structure. This could lead to unsafe traffic conditions. It is clear that this is of no benefit to anyone. In addition, with a tolerant structure, there is a derogation from existing laws and regulations in force. As Minister of Justice and Security, I can't be in favour of that. In this context, the Public Prosecutor's Office has expressly pointed out risks with regard to precedent. Finally, I would like to point out that it is not a blank cheque. That has already come up a little bit. Mr Dijkstra also paraphrased the letter of the covenant, for which I am grateful to him. The scheme can lead to risks to road safety and thus to responsibilities that can become very unclear. Mr. Chairman. I understand that people are looking for a way to get that bypass. With the cabinet, we have thought that we should at least do so by setting up the AMvB extension as soon as possible. I would also like to deal with this process with The Hague priority, just to use a traffic term. Let us really work with the Chambers to ensure that they can be on the docks quickly, as far as I am concerned, already at the end of October. But that's what we have to do with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u45	You've come to the end of your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u46	I'm afraid so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u47	There are some interruptions. I think Mr Schonis was the first. Since there are two rulers, I'd like to agree with you that there are three interruptions in two, if that's okay with you. Mr. Schonis.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u48	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you to the Minister for his reply. I fully understand that the Minister of Justice and Security, if you ask him to tolerate it, will not be the first answer: yes, of course we will. Edoch. I have the report from the Galan Group here. That is the advice that the Minister of IenW himself asked about the problems at the CBR. Let me quote from that report: as all the analyses show, the introduction on 1 December is actually too late to prevent the increase in the number of expired driving licences, about 30 000, in the short term. It actually says here: if you don't do it now, you'll have 30,000 expired driving licences on December 1st. Of course, they are all very nice, friendly citizens who comply with the law, I understand that, but it is possible that some of those 30,000 might still go on the road. Is that what you're looking for?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u49	Of course, that's a pretty rhetorical question. It is the responsibility of a road user whether or not he is going to do so. This is not a solution to the problem either. The consultants in question clearly state, painfully, what a number of problems might look like in the future. I'm not gonna take that off. Of course, I have the somewhat unpopular role of explaining on behalf of the cabinet. We have, of course, recognised this problem. The colleague and I have been working together to see how we can solve this as best we can. This extension arrangement came out of it. I am now in favour of someone who is not there for those who do not know that expression from the fifties: that means that you are doing a good word for someone but I know that the colleague and her officials have really pulled it very hard, with steam on the kettle, to get that AMvB and everything all set so that it goes fast. We're really gonna have to say to each other, that's the bypass. Mrs Van Brenk used that word first. We just need to get it there as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u50	Mr. Schonis, rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u51	Yeah, then the follow-up question. Of course, it is a paper reality on the left or right. Suppose I wait and the arrangement comes into force on 1 December. I totally agree with you that we're all gonna do our stinking best for that. But, of course, that doesn't change my ability to drive. So I don't think you can play the road safety card.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u52	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u53	Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u54	I always find it very difficult to discuss as-then reasoning. If the apples were pumpkins, Isaac Newton would have died and we wouldn't have a law of gravity. But quite simply at this point, there is no denying that we have a problem that we are solving together. Sometimes in a solution you have to establish that you have made the most of it and that if you go further to pull it all the way close, you will have a new problem on the other hand. On behalf of the cabinet, I must say that we should not want to do so, because then, as the expression says, we are going to put the horse behind the cart. We shouldn't do that. We need to ensure that the extension regime gets there as soon as possible and that people can get through as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u55	I had asked a very specific question about what the ministries are so afraid of. That those 75-plussers are all gonna go out on the road and make chunks? As Mr Schonis says, they have just been driving all this time. We've got the CBR here, and we've been two months. They can no longer drive because the driver's license expired, but their driving skills are exactly the same. What is the Ministry so afraid of?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u56	I can only say that people can only take part in traffic with a valid driving licence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u57	One more try. This minister is all poked up and smashed with legislation. I think he spent his whole life with that. The police say they have to keep it. You could say, "We're only gonna do something else for once. We have a lot of problems in this country. Let's stop checking those licenses. Keep driving and we're gonna do something else. We put the energy of the police somewhere else."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u58	I am pleased to be a minister on 26 October 2017 and have been able to have a number of discussions with your Chambers. In addition, I have always been well encouraged by you, also by Mrs Van Brenk, by the fact that the police had to enforce. In any case, it is somewhat contrary to what I have to say to the police: are you going to look at the police in other countries, or perhaps Netflix? I do not know. But you can't do that. That's exactly what I meant. I have a great deal of understanding; let me make that very clear. But what I meant in the answer to Mr Schonis is that we have a solution with each other that covers the problem, let me say, 90%. If you're going to pull it any further to cover that last 10%, that last part too, you're going to have another hole on the other side of the problem. Moreover, this gap goes far beyond this problem and rises above it. Then you get precedent and then we get this in other situations as well. We are going into a normal legislative process, in this case for hanging an AMvB, for the first time against the Council of State, I am not going to make the gesture here a long nose: well, we are actually already doing it, but look at it again. We shouldn't want that. In the meantime, I keep saying that we should take the Hague priority together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u59	A short question, actually more of a practical suggestion. I think we all understand the Minister's desire to maintain. It's true that when we call on him to enforce, it's usually about culpable acts of people who go against the law. This is a slightly different case, isn't it? It could be a very practical solution if the minister said to all those people: "Be sure you always have your expired driver's license in the car and your papers that you sent to the CBR showing that you requested on time. If the police maintain and you hold on, you hand it over. Then it is clear that your driver's license may not be valid in a formal sense, but that your equipment is still mobile." Would that be a passable path that the Minister could discuss with insurers, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u60	I'm not getting to the insurance companies yet. I find all these thoughts and attempts sympathetic. I understand that people say 'let's do this and that', but I have put the arguments together. So you do not ignore the fact that we are actually going to say in advance, where we are now making a special arrangement: you know, whatever you think of it in the First or the Two Chambers, we are already going to apply it. That's one. Two is that a dangerous precedent is created here for future situations, in relation to other areas of regulation. Of course, we can differ on this police enforcement problem, but I take it seriously. I would like to point out that this was done by dressing up the AMvB in this way. When we met in June, I had to think about whether it wouldn't lead to extra action for the police. But I said we should do it, that we should help the CBR with that. That's how we do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u61	Mrs Ploumen, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u62	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. Frankly, I am not very impressed by the arguments put forward by the Minister. I have rarely heard such a unanimous Lower House as here and I would really be surprised if our colleagues in the First Chamber felt otherwise. As far as the precedent is concerned, we are all there. So my appeal remains, I made a suggestion, and I'm sure there are others who are still looking together for solutions that do justice to injustice that has been done to all these people by the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u63	It's my heart, too. That is why I have said once again that I am cooperating in this extension arrangement. You then ask something that I say I cannot participate in as a cabinet in the whole way, because you are really going to pull over a number of things that make the road scale, no matter how sympathetic the one side of it may seem, go to the other side.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u64	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u65	Maybe against my better judgment, but I'm trying. In her first term, Mrs Ploumen said that everyone knows someone who has something to do with this and that is true. I also fully agree with all the arguments put forward by Mr Grapperhaus on every interruption. He says that there may be a precedent and such, but I can't remember I've been through something like this in the last few years. I'm almost 45 years old. So I expect to never see anything like it again in the future. It doesn't seem so hard to me either, but maybe I'm too practical. I got my driver's license for 25 years, and I just figured out that I drove at least a million miles. I've never had to show my driver's license. There may be a situation where someone happens to be arrested and has to show his license. Even if an accident happens, it has to be. Let that happen a few times over the next few months. Then it's one call from the officer on duty to the CBR to see if anyone's in that queue. If that's the case, can't you assume that that person has a driver's license? Can't the minister just practically get away with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u66	From parliamentary history I am only aware of the fact that in 1990 under the then PvdA Secretary of State Elske ter Veld a kind of emergency bill was issued in which 231 cases were excluded from the WAO. I admit that's an anecdotal fact. There may have been more of these situations in parliamentary history. Whether it is 231 or many more cases, I would like to repeat that we have come up with a structural solution with this arrangement. The honourable Member has drawn a great deal of attention to this. I am now saying it in front of her in order to get it on track as quickly as possible. The tracks here are of course a bit crazy, where you don't get a driver's license. We really need to get on this with each other. The objections I have just raised are three different. These are real objections that I have to face on behalf of the cabinet, because that will otherwise cost us too much in other future matters. One of these three arguments concerns, in part, enforcement. That's the problem. I've outlined it. It is already getting bigger for the police because of the one-year arrangement, but at some point the police must also be able to say: okay, but we must be able to maintain it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u67	Mr. Stoffer, rounding up. No? It's enough. Then I'm going to see Mr Dijkstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u68	I'm trying to understand the Minister as best I can. So you can see where a motion that has been dissuaded by the cabinet can lead: in the end, we are talking about it again in this debate. At least that's educational for me. I would also like to refer to the authors and the parties who supported that motion at the time. We didn't do that. I understand a number of arguments put forward by the Minister. It is only when I read the Galan regulation that I see that political support and a political decision are needed to implement that regulation properly. In fact, the Minister says: what we are going to do, that 1 December, is the most feasible. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u69	Yeah, I think that's right. Suppose, for example, that we could manage to have it completely by 31 October, then a piece of time period is not properly covered. But as I explained, if you're gonna move on, there's gonna be other problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u70	That is what we have to observe, but we must do everything we can to ensure that this AMvB is done as quickly as possible. I made a start with that this morning, but it does feel annoying, because it is still 30,000 people who may not have their license by 1 December and then enter that mill. So they're gonna be prosecuted.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u71	I do not hear a question in that, but a final remark. Mr Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u72	To stay in the rhetoric of the minister of The Beatles and Abbey Road: now the minister really sounds like a record that lingers. We have a united Chamber here, which says: December 1st, AMvB, we all want it. But the Galan Group says it should be possible to set it sooner. I would like to ask this Minister and later the other Minister what we can do to bring forward that date of 1 December. What can the Minister of JenV do to speed that up at least on his side?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u73	I do not think that there is such a huge role in that, but if I still have to come to the First Chamber or to your Chamber, as this evening, to explain it, I will do so as a matter of priority. I've used the words "Early priority." Should there still be a need for further clarification from my ministry in the Council of State advice, we shall put the utmost effort into doing so. Furthermore, it is, of course, a matter of treating both chambers as soon as possible. I cannot go much further than that, but my colleague and I will pass on to the Council of State, without any legal error, that the whole Chamber attaches great importance to us having clarity about this as soon as possible, including from the Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u74	Then there is a practical question, because ultimately it is also about adapting systems to each other. I have indicated in my own contribution that in my opinion the government and adjustments to ICT systems are more often not going well than they are. Can the Minister of JenV undertake that on his side, on the political side of the story, there will be no problem with the ICT system, which should be adapted to manage this properly? That's just a practical question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u75	I can promise you that we will do everything we can from the point of view of Justice and Security to ensure that the systems are put in place as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u76	Thank you. I would like to thank the Minister of Justice and Security for answering the questions from the Chamber. I shall then give the floor immediately to the Minister of Infrastructure and Water State for her part. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u77	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The cathedral has to go down a little bit; Mr Grapperhaus is just a little bigger. Let me also begin by expressing once again my congratulations, and now officially, to Mrs De Pater for her more than excellent maiden speech. I think that's gonna promise something. Some of you have already said that, unfortunately, we have debated the CBR more often. Several MPs have also mentioned people's personal stories. I could also mention a number of them, because I, too, get in my address, of course, a lot of poignant stories from people who are stuck at home, who are no longer able to provide care and who are no longer able to visit their families; people who are really affected by them in their daily lives. I get those comments not only in my mailbox, but also when I just walk into the supermarket. I can't actually run errands once without someone clinging to me about it. That just tells us how deeply this is affecting society. That also means that you really want to do everything you can to get it resolved as soon as possible. I sent you a letter last night, which made you all uncomfortable. I will go through the parts of it a little bit in the light of the questions you have asked and the comments you have made. The first question also fits in best with what Mr Grapperhaus has just discussed. How can that general administrative measure for that scheme to grant an administrative extension to 75-plussers be introduced as soon as possible? It has just been recalled that it is very important that this AMvB is handled with great speed here in the Lower House as well as in the Upper Chamber. Mr Grapperhaus and I will also join with the Council of State in calling for an urgent opinion so that we can conclude the formal side of the matter as soon as possible. In addition, the ICT systems, in particular those of the CBR and the RDW, need to be adapted to each other. Because the police need access to the DMV's register for that. We are already working on this and in mid-October the real test, the chain test, will take place between CBR and RDW. Of course, we have everything to do with the fact that if the test shows that it is possible in mid-October, we would try to make it to 1 November, so to speak. I very much agree with what, I believe, Mr Schonis said: every day that you can let it go in earlier, there is one more. So we'll definitely try. Well, once we know that the system is working and we have the green light of both Chambers and the Council of State, we can start.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u78	I shall then give the floor to Mrs De Pater-Postma for her first interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u79	Yeah, it's something, Mr. Chairman. I think I have an obligation to do so, if I am not mistaken. The Minister actually says, if I understand correctly: in mid-October we are already doing the most important test for the system; if the test goes well, it can be introduced immediately. Can we, as a Chamber, be kept informed of this? Because I would very much like to see that it may even be possible before 31 October and that we are heading towards mid-October.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u80	It's already mid-September. So we have to be realistic, too. We must, of course, get the Council of State's support and emergency advice settled at that time. But you can be sure that I do feel the commitment to get it done as quickly as possible. But I also said 1 December because I do not want to create disappointments again. So 1 December must really be feasible, and if we can do it sooner, we will definitely try to do it sooner.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u81	I think we are all anxiously waiting for the test date, but I am also very curious when it will actually be.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u82	I can't give you an exact date, but that test has to take place in mid-October.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u83	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u84	I was just quoting from that Galan report, which you had drafted yourself. It's actually even more beautiful, or not at all. The opinion not only states that it is actually necessary to introduce this coulance regime on 1 December, and preferably earlier. It says literally: "As indicated, the coulance regulation is very welcome or.q. necessary." We have just heard your colleague, Mr Grapperhaus, say that unfortunately it cannot be done sooner. Alla. That bothers me enough as it is. But what consequences does this have for the CBR? Does that mean the problems are getting bigger?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u85	I think the Galan Group is hitting the nail on the head. I have also outlined to you the scenarios, which have fortunately been validated by the Galan Group. In addition, there is a year between the best and worst scenario. The Galan Group also indicates that this is now based on realistic information. Even though this coulance regulation will enter into force on 1 December, the problems will unfortunately not be resolved by 1 December. We do indeed need that very much; I have already outlined this to you in the letter. That'll give you room. Moreover, there is another option to extend it for another year, if it does not go any better. But for God's sake, let's hope we've solved it. This is necessary in order to be able to pay the necessary attention to those other groups and to work slowly but surely through the mountain.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u86	You're actually saying it yourself. The opinion of the Galan Group states that it is "necessary." So if I have to take that advice, and if your colleague says "we're not going to make it until 1 December, for all kinds of legal reasons," then I think we're already looking at the disaster scenario, or at least the worst scenario outlined by the Galan Group. You yourself say that there is an option for a one-year extension. I would almost like to ask: come that year, because your own advisor says that it is probably just going to be necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u87	Well, we've read the report like this. That's how we understood it from them too. That doesn't mean that, if it's one day later, we suddenly come out in the summer of 2021. No, we're really heading for December 1st. Both the CBR and the RDW have indicated that this is realistic. On our side, on the parliamentary side, we must, of course, also ensure that everything is in order. If everything works out, we might even be able to get it done a little sooner. This means that we can also work on that mountain earlier and that, in an optimistic scenario, we can perhaps bring that up a little.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u88	One final remark, Mr President. "The most optimistic scenario" and "CBR" in one sentence... Dear Minister, I don't know if that's wise. I don't think that's two things that go together. I really fear that we are working on a very black scenario here, which means that tens of thousands of people are being duped by it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u89	I fully agree with Mr Schonis that we should not make any more promises than we can deliver. That is why we have also said that we are heading on 1 December. However, from Mrs De Pater, for example, I do feel the commitment to try to get it done sooner where it might still be possible. But yes, I can't promise that. That is really only an effort obligation. It will all have to go hand in hand with that. You're right about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u90	I just wanted to zoom in on what we can do here ourselves. As the Minister said, let us also speed up the parliamentary process and the government's process here. I ask the Minister, but at the same time it is also a suggestion to ourselves. The Council of State can, of course, get to work quickly. Would it help if, as a committee, perhaps together with the Minister, we called on the Council of State to put all the other important things aside in this case and to do so very, very quickly? Does the Minister think that'll help? We are all very willing to do so, as I say on behalf of Mrs Van Brenn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u91	I think that's a very valuable suggestion. I think: the stronger the message towards the Council of State, the better. So I think it can only contribute if the Court makes that decision. Perhaps your colleagues in the First Chamber could support that as well. Then we have the call from both the cabinet and the two chambers to do it as soon as possible. That would be very nice. That's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u92	I feel a motion coming up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u93	Then you know the appreciation of that! Mr Schonis asked, following the suggestions of the Association of Insurance Companies, why I did not talk to the Association of Insurance Companies. We did consult with the Covenant. Let me just say once again that people whose driving licences will be extended administratively will be insured, because they will then have a valid driving licence de facto. In the event of claims for damages, insurance companies must always verify with the RDW whether the licence is valid. They can request a written certificate of authenticity from the RDW on request. This will show that the licence has been administratively renewed by means of a code. But if you are not in that category, then Mr Grapperhaus has just explained that, I think you are punishable, because you are punishable if you drive an invalid driver's license. In reply to Mrs Van der Graaf's question, which I do not see at the moment, I also indicated that although the Association of Insurance Companies calls on its members to be cooperative, it cannot guarantee that all Members will follow that advice, while there is still the problem that you are simply punishable by invalid driving licences when you are driving, but also when you are causing an accident. It's just not possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u94	Thank you. Mr Schonis may ask one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u95	It's a question for confirmation. If we introduce the AMvB, of course we are going to do so as soon as possible; this Chamber and the First Chamber are going to do their stinking best for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u96	Yes. In the event of a standing position or an accident, the police can simply look into the RDW system. Therefore, the systems of the CBR and the RDW must also be linked. In that case, a code in the RDW system indicates that the licence in question is in the administrative extension and is therefore simply valid.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u97	Thank you. The Minister continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u98	Mr Dijkstra had asked whether this AMvB could not be introduced permanently. As Mr Grapperhaus has pointed out, I think we have now decided that this scheme will apply for one year, with an option of an extension of one year. But, of course, I repeat once again, we are going to ensure that this will not be necessary. Mrs Van der Graaf asked: how many people does this arrangement offer a solution for? When introduced, it offers relief to about 80,000 75-plussers. Then, of course, it flows with all the people who turn 75. This can reach 190,000 people who can still make use of it until 1 December 2020, if we assume that it will take effect on 1 December. This in turn creates space to help people outside that group faster. Mrs Van der Graaf asked: does this also lead to a valid driving licence abroad? That is not the case. It leads to a registration in the licence register, in which the police can look into and to which insurers in the Netherlands have access. But overseas doesn't have access to that register. So, unfortunately, you can't use it abroad. Wouldn't people still fall out of the boat if the coulance scheme went in? That was also a question from Mrs Van der Graaf. The risk of an administrative renewal of the driving licence for one year for people with a driving licence issued for five or ten years is not very high. In fact, we assume that there are no details that would cause people to fall out of the boat now, because this is just the case for all 75-plussers who are decent on time. They have to meet the conditions. You must have applied for an extension of your driving licence at all, otherwise you will of course not enter that register with that code. But people who simply apply for an extension are normally eligible for it. Then there is the broader reform of the system. The necessary questions have also been asked. Can we not find a structural solution for the longer term? I will make the following commitment. For the AO Road Safety in December, I will inform you about the latest state of affairs. Firstly, of course, this will be about SWOV, which has been commissioned to carry out research into this system review. I indicated in the letter last night that they will have completed the investigation in October. I'd also like to inform you in between about what this research setup looks like. The risk-oriented approach is, of course, one of the elements they are looking at specifically. An international comparison is also made: how do other countries deal with medical fitness? I say this in the direction of Mr Laçin, whom I believe he mentioned. We will also look at the example of Denmark, which has recently abolished age testing. We are also looking at Belgium and Great Britain. There are several variants in circulation in different countries. At the moment, the Ministry is also carrying out a legal analysis of the way in which international regulations, including European regulations, have been translated into Dutch regulations. We are looking at where there is a clear case for European regulation because we are doing more than some other countries. At the same time, we may have a higher priority for road safety than other countries. We must therefore have a sound basis for this. Besides, I've asked the Health Council to think with me. I am now looking at Mr Laçin, who mentioned the example of stable diseases, and I think he explained it that way, and Mr Schonis, who asked questions about autism. Is that really necessary? I've asked the Health Council to consider that. They advise us. Once every few months there will be another review. Mr Schonis showed the very long list of conditions for which an inspection is required. I asked them to review that list again, also in the light of these problems. Is all this really necessary and in the interests of road safety? Or do we impose excessive demands on people? There are professionals and doctors there, who can judge that, but I did ask them to go through it again with the comb to see if the list could not be cleaned up a bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u99	I have a question on this point, which I have also explicitly mentioned in my own contribution. The minister says the Health Council is going to investigate this and come up with an opinion or recommendation. But all this takes until mid-2020, I read in the letter sent by the Minister yesterday. As far as I am concerned, that is far too late for the group of people with a stable disease or a stable medical condition that does not affect the fitness to drive. I therefore ask the Minister once again how she looks at a coulance scheme for that group with a medical condition which can be shown to have no impact on driving fitness, thus ensuring road safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u100	I understand Mr Laçin's intentions, and I also find the idea very sympathetic. Then let me add the following question to the question that I have already asked the Health Council: can the Health Council see if it could identify stable diseases in the assessment, for which this could possibly apply? For they too will have to judge what is a stable disease. Maybe I can make that happen in their response to the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u101	I think that's a good commitment. Of course, I always wonder how long it will take before the Health Council has received the question that the Minister now wishes to add. This is, of course, a question to which we hope they will be able to return quickly and which they will not have to wait until mid 2020, because that will actually be of no use to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u102	In any case, I can assure you that this question will be sent to the Health Council no later than next week, so to speak. Then I will also ask them if they can let us know when they can answer that at the earliest possible time. Mr Schonis asked how much medical capacity the 7,000 people with an autism disorder cost the CBR. How does that relate to the total inflow? It is estimated that there are some 7,000 to be assessed a year. I answered that in response to the written questions. On the annual number of health statements received, this is about 1%. It is not a group that takes above average more or less capacity than for example diabetics or people with heart failure or other common conditions. Autists who want to take exams are first referred to a psychiatrist. Then they'll do a driving test. Of the total number of driving tests to be carried out annually, about 20% concern psychiatric problems. Only part of it relates to autism. This also applies to the fact that these groups of course have more room for manoeuvre if the coulance regulation for the 75-plussers comes into force. Mr Van Aalst has asked me to do so, and I would have expected him to do so if I could not draw a line through the code 95 directive. These requirements of competence are set throughout Europe. We in the Netherlands must and want to comply with this. Europe considers that we do not comply with the rules and, as you know, has already failed to do so for the administrative group. We have informed the committee about the implementation problems of the CBR and the planning of the legislation. They're following that very closely. However, the adjustment device has been done in such a way that the amount of work for the CBR is kept to a minimum. The group that does not need code 95 can exchange the driving licence with the RDW and therefore does not have to pass the CBR. That's okay. As you know, the people concerned have now received a letter saying that they must follow their further training if they want to keep that code in the driving licence. This also applies: if the administrative extension for the 75-plussers comes into force, there will also be more room for handling the 95-case code.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u103	I'd like to take the Minister with me in that sense. We are talking about 11,000 professional drivers. They had an exemption, because they were born before July 1, 1955. These are all kinds of professional drivers who have been working for years. That's weird, right? So we are now setting up capacity at the CBR to train 11,000 professional drivers, because Europe is determined to do so. Does the Minister agree with the PVV that we can now use this capacity differently and just leave Europe for a while?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u104	In that respect, we disagree. We have made agreements in Europe. Europe has already started an intergroup procedure. It's already cool in our direction and thinks with us, but we just have to meet it eventually.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u105	I have a second question for the Minister. Suppose we just don't do that before 2021, what will Europe do?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u106	I assume that the Chamber will act responsibly and that the legislative process will simply take place here, so that we can fulfil our obligations to Europe, the commitments we have made in Europe. Mr Dijkstra asked about the long run-through periods of re-examination that also affected SMEs. This also applies: if the administrative extension for 75-plussers starts, I hope that this group will get more air. Previously, a priority procedure has already been set up at the CBR for people who depend on the driving licence for their job or work. In the past, one of the MPs mentioned the example of someone who had his own plumbing company and had to take his own bus to work. Then you're such a case that for work, for income, depends on it. So we already had a priority procedure for that. Mrs Ploumen asked another question about the urgency procedure for lorry drivers. In fact, she asked whether it was true that people who need to be re-approved, such as the glasses and lens carriers and those with cardiovascular disease, are excluded from that emergency procedure. No, the criteria for this emergency procedure are separate from whether or not you have medical conditions and therefore require inspections. But the specialist has to make that assessment and that's why your procedure will always last longer than for someone who doesn't have any condition. But the fact that you can get into trouble as a professional driver and possibly lose your job makes that urgency equally valid in both cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u107	Mrs Ploumen, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u108	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. We are getting signals that in practice it is working slightly differently from the Minister's description and that truck drivers have to wait a very long time because they end up in a different pile. Perhaps I could ask the Minister if she would like to take an active look at this. It is, of course, very bad when people who depend on it for their bread are put at a disadvantage.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u109	Sure. Once again, the urgency procedure applies to all professional drivers who get into trouble. But it is also understandable, of course, that the urgency procedure does not go as fast as the others. But it shouldn't be the case that they end up on a separate pile again, which is why it takes longer. So I'd like to check that out. A number of questions have been asked about the CBR internally. Mr Dijkstra asks why we are not working day and night to catch up. I understand that you, Mr. Dijkstra, need maximum speed, but the people at the CBR are really working very hard. I myself visited there not so long ago, and I have seen myself that that is certainly true of the people who man the phones. That's really not fun right now! A lot of people, especially 75-plussers, send in their papers by post, and all this has to be processed by people who process the paper forms. There is not much use of the digital option yet and I would really like to make a call: people, you can't do it yourself, then ask your children or neighbors. Help people to request it digitally, because that really saves a lot of time! But the people who are scanning all those forms are working very hard. The doctors work very hard. So there is really hard work and of course you can't let people work 24 hours a day, because it's about road safety. That is why the content of their work must also be at the forefront of doctors. I know what you mean, Mr. Dijkstra, but don't worry. The people at the CBR who do the executive work certainly work very hard. The information. Mrs Van Brenk pointed that out for a moment. Of course, we've been receiving reports from the CBR for some time now, but I did ask the CBR to better organize that and to do more structured work, so that it gives more insight and you don't have to distil it out of a whole piece of information and so we can't get any more interpretation. Once the CBR has incorporated the revised prognosis, as I had to report to you last night, into that monthly report, I will be happy to share it with you as soon as possible. Mr Laçin asked if the Minister could do something to improve the OPUS system. That system is in use and now works as expected. The new system is also faster and will produce more decisions in the same effort than in the old system. I see you, Mr. Laçin, looking very suspiciously now, and I understand that, because why does it take so much to get those medical specialists into the CBR? Of course, they also need to learn how to deal with the new system, but it's mainly the fact that a doctor doesn't have the specialist knowledge to be able to assess what a medical condition does with the driving skills. That's exactly why you can't just let doctors flow in and get right to work at the CBR, so to speak. They really need that training first. It takes time and specialist knowledge to make that assessment. But the system is functioning.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u110	The Minister saw me look disgusting. The open system is indeed not my favorite system after everything I've understood, also from people who work at the CBR themselves. But I actually asked the Minister a question about what I had understood, namely that medical advisers who already work at the CBR need three weeks to master the system. So it's not like suddenly a random doctor joins the CBR, who apparently needs two months, like I said. No, a medical consultant who already worked in the old system of the CBR needs three weeks to master the new system. As far as I am concerned, there is some profit to be made, apart from the fact that decentralisation and 'Rijswijk' also cost some medical advisers. I understand that from people inside the CBR. Can the Minister respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u111	In order to satisfy Mr Laçin, I would like to ask the CBR if all this has been resolved by now. I've been wandering around the ward where those teams are. I think that change is now made and they can all just work with the new system. So now we only have to deal with the new ones that come in and that all have to learn at all. Anyway, I'll see if that's all rolling or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u112	When can the Minister come back to that and in what form?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u113	Yeah, what should we do? In a week or so? Before the end of the month? We'll take it with us in the first report. I'll send it to you anyway, so we'll have a logical hook. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to send you a loose note for this. That's a little crazy, too. Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u114	For this report is also an adopted motion on my part, so if that can be included, that is fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u115	Then that's what we'll do. "Does the Minister resign himself to the years that have been mentioned?" I have also had that tested independently for a reason, firstly because I do not have to come up with another worse scenario and secondly because I want to be realistic, but I also do not want to promise too much. That is why the Galan Group has also checked whether this scenario was really well substantiated and whether this information was correct. In their assessment, they indicated that this scenario is true. Now, of course, we are going to do everything we can to achieve the best result within the range of those scenarios and to improve that, if possible, by getting more doctors trained and so on. So I'm not gonna lie down... Someone asked, "Are you gonna fight to make things better?" Of course we do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u116	Mr Laçin, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u117	Yes, a very short question, Mr. Chairman. Of course, the Galan Group has looked into the CBR's progress, but in the previous debate a commitment was made or a motion was adopted on my part to examine the role of the Ministry in the problems that have existed within the CBR for ten years. That would be an external investigation. Has the Minister called in an external agency for this? What exactly is the assignment that that agency received? I'm really looking forward to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u118	The focus has now been on solving the problem in the short term. I suggest that I also inform you about this in the first report.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u119	That will be a progress report for Mr Laçin! I now give the floor to Mrs De Pater-Postma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u120	I would like to go back to those figures, so to the scenarios of 2020 if it is rosy and 2021 if it is not. In the report we could also read that they said they had actually assessed it quite risk-avoiding and that they had not yet included some of the things they could have done in the calculations. In my view, there were also doubts as to whether this was really the right information or whether there might have been some more. The Minister has already said that she was going to have it examined independently, but I would ask the Minister to formulate a little more ambitious than this one, in order to avoid this becoming her ambition. In fact, I challenge her to tell us what plans she will come up with to ensure that we will have everything back on track at the CBR before the summer of 2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u121	Of course, there are still a number of routes ahead of that. We are constantly working to get and train more medical specialists at the CBR. That's what the CBR does. They're the real evaluators. There's gonna be a bunch of them now. Any doctor who joins us can improve the scenario. I will certainly also be working on the suggestions they have come from the Chamber. I hope the Health Council will come up with solutions. Perhaps it is said, in Mr Laçin's example or in another case, that there is no need for these people to undergo medical examinations. These are all things that we are still working on, of course. Of course, we need a new CEO at the CBR. You never know what people there can do for efficiency. Mr Eringa went along with his operational experience to support the Supervisory Board. So I hope that we will use all the creativity to come up with something that might help us solve it a little faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u122	This sounds very nice. The word "hope" is beautiful, but hope can fade away very much. I notice I'm constantly looking for some concrete data. When is the meeting with the Health Council? When can we expect results? I think we all want results and we want to solve this as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u123	Sure. I think that, for example, the people at the Health Council are really aware of what is at stake here. I have good hope that they will feel this need with us and will not take longer than is strictly necessary in order to weigh up and clarify it, to give just one example. Mrs Ploumen had a very valid point about the treatment of people. People already feel incredibly vulnerable and are often desperate. We certainly at first also had people who were on hold for a very long time. A lot of extra people have been deployed at the customer service. I've also spoken to the leadership of that. They really try to train people as best they can to have these often difficult conversations. The CBR's commitment is also to do people justice, listen to them and try to help them as best they can. The people there are really trying to do as well as they can. But you're right: this is something you need to pay permanent attention to. New people who come to the customer service should always be reminded of this with a new training. The number of calls has also increased enormously. It's probably gonna stay that high. If the waiting period is too long, the CBR informs the customer. They therefore propose to call back at another time. I have heard from the CBR that the waiting period is now on average six minutes. That could be a lot better, but it's been different. Mr Van Aalst made a point that he made last time. I'm sorry he was forced to make it again. That was because he feels that people who report to MPs and then send their message to the CBR are being helped with priority. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Ik kan niet anders dan herhalen wat ik toen ook heb gezegd: dat van ons uit aan het CBR is aangegeven dat dat absoluut niet de bedoeling kan zijn.]] It can't be that someone is being helped because he happens to have written to a Member of Parliament or the Minister. I don't want that to matter. If you feel this is going on, I will return it to the CBR again. On the other hand, it is quite a step to write to us. That's what I said last time. Those people have been waiting for a very long time and are completely desperate. In itself, it makes sense that they will be helped at some point. Anyway, I fully agree with you that it should never lead to preferential treatment. Mrs. Van der Graaf asked: is the Minister prepared to help older people with the digital application for a driving licence? The CBR participates in the Digital Government Information Points and is also keen to support, for example in libraries, people who need extra help in dealing with the Digital Government. That is certainly one of the possibilities. Then she asked whether the process with the medical examiners could not be accelerated by doing the inspection report immediately with the application. I understand, precisely in order to prevent additional visits to doctors, that the CBR directly, together with the inspection report, provides additional questions to be answered by the doctor. That will only happen if the citizen has indicated on his application that something is wrong. This is precisely how we prevent people from visiting additional doctors when they don't need to, because anyone who fills in "no" can go straight through and doesn't have to go to a doctor at all. Mr Van Aalst has asked if the former director is really gone. The answer to that is yes. She said goodbye to the CBR on 1 August. In doing so, she has made room for the Supervisory Board to attract a new Managing Director. You have also been able to see advertisements of this in the national magazines this week. I hope we find a good new director very soon. Mr Van Aalst also asked if there could be a thick line through the CBR tariff increase in 2020. The CBR, of course, always strives for as limited a rate increase as possible. Let me say to you that I will consult with the CBR again and see what the plans for the coming year are. Of course, it doesn't matter what service is being provided. I propose that the report be not only for Mr Laçin, but also for the issue of how tariffs will be dealt with in the CBR by 2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u124	I don't know if that's enough. I'm starting to doubt it. I found the Minister's remark that the CBR always looks closely at the rates curious. I note that the rate for a health certificate has increased by 50% over the last six years. I don't know, but I'm looking for entrepreneurs who get that kind of profit margin. Does the Minister agree with me that these are not normal tariff changes? In an organization where it's such a mess, I can't really call it any other way. Can't you raise prices next year? Something doesn't make sense, does it? Clean up that mess at the CBR and leave the prices for what it is!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u125	I repeat my offer to respond to this when reporting. We also, of course, strive for cost security. And again, of course, it doesn't matter which product is delivered. Fortunately, things are also going well with the CBR; someone else had an example of this before. But let's take a look at the whole of the rates. Mr Dijkstra has asked a question which has been shared by many: what is the situation with the expansion of medical capacity? Mr Van Aalst said that a motion was adopted to increase the number of medical specialists. Why is that still so little results? I very much agree with you that there is the great bottleneck. You're wondering why. I asked the people who were working there: why do you work here with pleasure? Is it so hard to get good colleagues? Then you often hear that doctors become doctors to have contact with patients. They don't. But when I asked someone there why he was there, the answer was that he had been working in psychiatry and at some point was ready for something else. In that period of life, it was convenient not to have an irregularity and not to have to run services. At that time, I also told them that I was going to highlight the text that was calling for 'no irregularity and no services'. I hope that inspires people again. I got a letter from someone who asked why we couldn't hire retired doctors. They are perhaps quite willing to follow the training and, not for a lifetime or a very long period, but for a year or two, to work at the CBR to support the situation there, so that we can get through that mountain lag. The people who apply must, of course, do the training, because it is about quality, about specialism. Let's all keep doing our best to meet that shortage. So we will continue to do so. A number of questions have also been asked about compensation. Of course, it's incredibly annoying. Then you are already so duped and you also have to make extra or double costs due to those problems at the CBR. It has already been recalled that the CBR has several procedures to help people with extra or double costs: customer service treatment, complaint procedure or medical back office and through a claim for compensation. These costs include, for example, additional costs for a health certificate, an inspection report or taxi fee to go back to a specialist. However, given the number of people using the compensation scheme, the scheme does not appear to be sufficiently known. You also underlined that point. We have already discussed this with, for example, the KBO-Brabant, which Mrs Van Brenk mentioned. They intend to increase awareness of this. I will also discuss this with the ANBO and the PCOB. In addition, citizens whose driving licences are almost expired and who have started on time can declare the cost of the emergency procedure to the municipality for the renewal of the driving licence to the CBR. You know that, too. The DMV reminder letter will point out that they can do so. Mrs De Pater mentioned a number of other options that could still be considered: a free driving licence or a lump sum. I do not have a ready-to-use answer to that right now, but I am prepared to look into the possibilities mentioned, to look at them and to inform you about them in the report that comes anyway. Then it's gonna be another letter for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u126	I imagine if you're no longer mobile because you're no longer allowed to use the car, but you have to take care of someone you need to take to the hospital and the like, who might also be able to tell about transport costs on a failing government.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u127	I think I'll take that question with me. I understood you correctly. Others also asked what exactly is covered. If we are to communicate more, we also need to be able to describe what is and is not covered. I will take this question into account as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u128	When will we have that clarity?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u129	That is also what I am trying to do as quickly as possible. Let me try to include that in the first monthly report I am sending you, at least an initial appreciation of what might and might not be possible. In any case, we should be able to indicate what is covered by the current regime. By the way, until the end of August, the CBR paid around €84.000 compensations to 2.095 people who had registered with the CBR. Then I'm gonna come up with some loose questions. Mrs. De Pater mentioned the boatmasters' certificates. They're going over to the CBR. I understand very well that she asked whether that is sensible and whether this cannot be reversed. I will admit quite frankly that I asked that question myself. But it has been decided for me that the previous cabinet decided in 2014 to reduce the number of ZBOs and to invest the tasks elsewhere, following the De Leeuw Committee on the repositioning of ZBOs. This in relation to more efficient performance of tasks. It was then decided to position the tasks for recreation at the CBR. Reverting now is no longer an option, as the CBR has already made all the arrangements and has indicated that it is ready to start performing that task as of 1 January 2020. The people move from VAMEX to the CBR and will get the same exams at the CBR as at VAMEX. There were some Indian stories that would add a new practice exam. That is not the case. The exams will also take place at the same cost. There have been consultations between VAMEX and CBR and both organisations have informed us that it must be a smooth transition.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u130	This gives me a little more peace of mind. A very simple question. Can I be promised that this will be done without any problems and that it will not lead to additional waiting times for those who have to take the theoretical examination for their boating license at the CBR?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u131	Well, I've learned in this file that of course you can never give a hundred percent guarantee. But if both organisations, VAMEX and CBR, indicate that they are doing it in good agreement and that they are convinced that it must be able to move smoothly, I must be able to rely on it. Mrs Van der Graaf asked for a double inspection and made various suggestions for accelerations in the process. I don't see her right now. Let me say that we take this point into account in the report and then see if we can find any duplications that we could get out of it. As part of the management of expectations, I must say that you should not imagine too much of that, because we have already looked very closely at whether things can be done faster. But I'll do another check on it. Mr. Chairman. Then I'm through, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u132	I see a lot of enthusiasm. Not that you're through, but that there are still a few questions. First, Mr Van Aalst.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u133	In my view, there is still a little bit of an open question for me, namely in what capacity the Minister will use Mr Pier Eringa and what mandate he will be given.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u134	Mr Eringa will support and strengthen the Supervisory Board. Anyone who knows Mr Eringa a little knows that he is a free thinker. I asked him for that part, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u135	I'm very curious about that, too. The Minister has made clear what steps have been taken and what steps are to be taken. We may also want structural changes, in the sense of the medical examiners and the process. I have not had an answer to my question as to why at 75 years. It was 70 years old at first, but we've raised the age to 75 years. Why not raise it to 80 years or let it go, as happens in other countries? The general practitioner should then be given a more important role in dealing with this risk-based approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u136	I thought I'd answered this. We have asked SWOV to look at such a review and to make a comparison with other countries in this respect. There are countries without age limits and countries with. And what are the advantages and disadvantages of what age limit? There are also examples of countries that only have a reporting obligation, as is currently the case for people under 75 who suffer from a medical condition or something like that. Then you need to get checked out before you get back on the road. That is all put together in this study, because, as several have confirmed here, we are of course doing it from the point of view of road safety. Even now, all these inspections lead to a very small percentage of people who are no longer allowed to drive afterwards and a large group of people who are allowed to drive, but for example with the restriction that they are only allowed to drive in a vending machine or something like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u137	I had one more question about SWOV. Scientific research on road safety usually takes a long time. It is good that we know in October what the research plan is, but when does the Minister intend that it is completed?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u138	I think I really need to talk to SWOV about that. Once they finish the research setup, they will also be able to assess how much time they think they need until it's finished. The inventory of how things are done in other countries can be done before. But I will have to put the question of how quickly SWOV can do this. Because SWOV also sees that there is a need for haste here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u139	Can I count on the Minister to send this along when she sends us the research setup, so that we know how much time SWOV thinks it will take?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u140	I'm assuming that that research setup includes planning as well. If not, I'm gonna ask them anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u141	Then I would like to thank the Minister for her reply. I'm suspending for a single moment because I want to tune something with the MPs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u142	First of all, I give the floor to Mrs De Pater-Postma for her second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u143	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. What a beautiful warm welcome today; thank you for that! I have two motions I'd like to table. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that some of the victims have been without a licence for months due to persistent problems with the CBR;]] [[Considering that this is a problem for those affected, for example, when it comes to employment, family care, volunteering, social activities or shopping;]] [[Whereas the authorities are morally obliged to meet these victims;]] [[Considering that the current reimbursement of the additional costs or double direct costs, such as those of the emergency procedure, is insufficient given the seriousness of the problems and is not sufficiently actively highlighted;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibilities for more appropriate and active compensation and to send a proposal to the Chamber before the budget treatment Infrastructure and Water State,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members De Pater-Postma and Schonis. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29398-744]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u144	Then I have one more motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, on the basis of the CBR forecast, the worst case scenario is that the CBR will not recover its lead times until mid 2021 and this will be in the best case scenario in summer 2020;]] [[whereas they are conservative estimates and would have dramatic consequences if these forecasts were to become reality;]] [[Whereas it is the moral duty of the public authorities to ensure that the CBR is more effective and complies with existing rules;]] [[Calls on the Government to draw up, in cooperation with the CBR, a roadmap for the budgetary treatment of Infrastructure and Water State, which sets out in detail how and within what time limits steps are being taken to make every effort to ensure that by 1 March 2020 at the latest, driving licences will return to compliance with the Regulation on driving licences and performance agreements, and to reflect their state of play in the monthly reports,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members De Pater-Postma, Schonis, Van der Graaf, Laçin and Stoffer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29398-745]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u145	There is a question about Mr Van Aalst's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u146	Two small questions, actually. The first one to my colleague from the CDA is: why 2020? The CBR has once stated itself in a forecast to be up to date by the end of the year. Then there is the second question. You indicate: a roadmap for the infrastructure budget. The budget, I believe, is already scheduled for mid-October. What do you think changes to the prognosis that is now in relation to the roadmap that will come from the Ministry?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u147	In the letter that we received yesterday, I saw that a number of things are simply not in it or have been incorporated into it, which I do think will result in the achievement of the objective earlier. I would like to challenge the Minister and the CBR to take with them the new things we have and to come up with a more concrete action plan towards budgetary treatment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u148	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Laçin of the SP for his second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u149	Mr. Chairman. I think it is a good thing that we recognise Chamberwide and also the Minister that it really is a mess at the CBR and that a lot needs to be done. That wasn't quite the case at the beginning of the year, so that's already a profit. I welcome a number of promises made by the Minister, for example, that she will ask about the training of medical advisers and that she will include this in the report, as well as the commitment on medical conditions. That was an important point for me and I welcome the commitment. I'm going to table a motion on it anyway, so that it may be taken tomorrow. But I welcome the commitment, so I can also see if I can hold the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the currently proposed coulance scheme, specifically aimed at 75-plussers, should reduce workload for medical advisers;]] [[Whereas it is also necessary to periodically re-evaluate many people with a stable picture of disease, thereby contributing to the workload;]] [[calls on the Government to establish a similar coulance regime for people with stable disease/medical conditions as proposed for 75+]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Laçin. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29398-746]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u150	Then there is another important point on which Mrs De Pater has tabled a similar motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u151	You're almost through your time, aren't you? So if you still have a motion, I'd start.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u152	Well, I guess I'll just file it right away. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Minister acknowledges that the CBR fails to carry out its tasks;]] [[whereas many people get into trouble because of the failure of the CBR without doing anything wrong;]] [[calls on the Government to establish a generous compensation scheme for victims to recover additional costs and other suffering,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Laçin. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29398-747]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u153	I am tabling this motion because nothing has actually happened to my unanimous motion of April for additional compensatory measures. I hear the minister today mainly talking about measures already taken at the CBR, but I hear little news about what the government can do to compensate these people. Hence this second motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u154	Thank you, Mrs Van Brenk of 50PLUS will have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u155	Mr. Chairman. The points have already been addressed by colleagues, at least the coulance scheme and the additional fees. We are curious about the Minister's report and about how generous this government is, because this government is failing. It disappoints people and dipping a lot of people, people who are not mobile and can't go and stand where they want. Especially when it comes to loneliness among the elderly, it is precisely these transport opportunities that are very important. I would therefore like to make it clear in the following motion that 50PLUS is grumpy. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[expresses its disapproval of the chaos at the CBR,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29398-748]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u156	I see a minister trying hard to pull something that seemed like a dead horse until recently. I hope that its measures at least have a driving force. I hope that the former director of ProRail will get things back on track and that we will soon be able to see them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u157	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Schonis of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u158	Mr. Chairman. I just started reading an e-mail from Rieneke. Many different colleagues have also talked about it, about different stories. The Minister also calls it. We've asked for a coulance scheme up to three times. There may be a beginning of a solution in the form of the AMvB that will soon come. That is why we have tabled a motion with an effort to bring the solution into force as soon as possible. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that organisational difficulties at the CBR have caused a significant and sustained delay in extending driving licences of 75-plussers and those with medical indications;]] [[Considering that the advice requested by the Minister himself on this matter by the Galan Group concluded that a coulance regime is very welcome and even necessary to limit the customer impact of expired driving licences;]] [[noting that the analysis carried out by the Galan Group shows that introduction by 1 December will be too late to prevent the increase in the number of expired driving licences in the short term;]] [[calls on the Government to make every effort, for those who satisfy all the characteristics, to introduce the announced administrative renewal of the driving licence for 75-plussers as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Schonis and Mr De Pater-Postma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29398-749]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u159	Minister Grapperhaus was just talking about Abbey Road. The second side of that album starts with the well-known song Here comes the sun. That sounds like a very nice song and a very nice thought. Let us hope that the sun will indeed soon shine on this file. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u160	Thank you. What a musical commission this is. Then I give the floor to Mr Dijkstra of the VVD for his second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u161	I won't sing, Mr. Chairman. I'm not that musical, but it's nice to put on some good music tonight if we take it a step further here. The Minister has explained what she's doing. So we all see how complicated it is and how long it's going to take, the most feasible thing that's going to happen right now. I still find it difficult to understand that you cannot act in anticipation of legislation. That is a strange thing, but it is obviously legal that you cannot act in the spirit of it. Anyway, that has been made clear to us by Grapperhaus, the Minister of Justice and Security. I don't see much in all kinds of compensation measures. Of course, arrangements have already been made. I think that people will be most pleased if they simply get their driving licences quickly, and that should be the aim of all the effort rather than free of charge and all kinds of other variants that concern us all. So I hope that arrangement will take place as soon as possible. On behalf of many parties, Mrs Ploumen is coming forward with the proposal to get the AMvB, which we looked at this morning at the procedural meeting, to the Council of State as soon as possible with an emergency sheet. As far as I am concerned, therefore, we are going to vote on this tomorrow and we are going to take a step in this direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u162	Of course, I agree with the VVD that people prefer to have their driver's license as soon as possible, but the VVD also absolutely cares that someone with a small scholarship will have to pay big expenses if they can no longer use their own car and have to go to the hospital with a taxi or provide cloak care? That there's compensation for that isn't crazy at all, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u163	No. I think there are arrangements for that, but I will be informed in the near future. And there's a motion in the vein of a number of parties. I think there's a majority for that. Then the Minister is going to make that clear and I want to judge it. But I think the essence of today must be that we are moving as quickly as possible in the long term and in the short term, and that people are best served by the paper that means freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u164	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Aalst of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u165	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. Let me briefly say that it is time to clean up. The PVV has every confidence in a man like Pier Eringa. However, 2021 is unacceptable for the PVV. I would like to come back briefly to the dozens of cases that have already been resolved during this recess. Those weren't exciting stories in that sense, so I insist that it can be done better with the CBR. Then there are the two motions. The motion on code 95 involves 11,000 cases. If we can play that capacity freely, I think we have a good start. The Chamber, heard the debate, noting that the CBR is still at a standstill in the performance of its tasks; noting that compulsory continuing training on code 95 places additional pressure on the CBR; considers that postponing this obligation will free up time and capacity at the CBR to address the core problems; calls on the Government to postpone continuing training on code 95 until further notice, and goes to the order of the day. The President shall: This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Aalst. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She's getting No. 750 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u166	The second motion is about the tariff increases that the CBR has planned. It seems to me a fantastic signal to say unanimously as a Chamber that we are not of any use to it. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the CBR is in the process of setting the rates for 2020;]] [[noting that these rates will again be higher than the previous year;]] [[considers that it is incomprehensible that the CBR is going to charge more money for its services while it is still a mess with this organisation;]] [[calls on the Government to strike a line by any increase in tariffs at the CBR for the year 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Aalst. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29398-751]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u167	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for her commitment and the commitments, specifically for the commitment to check whether the procedure for lorry drivers is working as quickly as it should. Of course, the Chamber also wants everyone to get their license as soon as possible. One of the ways to do that is to ensure that this AMvB is taken into action as soon as possible, as Mr Dijkstra said. Hence this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas many people suffer from the chaos at the CBR and are therefore unable to drive without their fault;]] [[noting that the Temporary Decree provides in certain cases a solution for a group of injured persons whose driving licence is due to expire;]] [[calls on the Government to ask the Council of State for an urgent opinion on the temporary decision to extend the validity of the driving licence,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Ploumen, Mr Van Brenn, Mr Remco Dijkstra, Mr Schonis, Mr Stoffer, Mr De Pater-Postma, Mr Laçin, Mr Van Aalst and Mr Van der Graaf.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29398-752]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u168	The Minister has the floor to give her appreciation of the motions tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u169	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 744 belongs to Mrs De Pater-Postma. It calls on the government to examine possibilities for more appropriate and active compensation and to send a proposal to the Chamber for the budgetary treatment of Infrastructure and Water State. I don't know if this is your first motion, but at least she's getting judgment Chamber. The motion in part No. 745 is also by Mrs De Pater-Postma's hand. I have a few more questions. In fact, it is a request to the government to draw up a roadmap for budgetary treatment in cooperation with the CBR, which sets out in detail how steps are being taken within what deadlines to make every effort to improve. If I may explain that first part of the request in such a way that we will take dynamically in that regular report every time and will process what ideas we have because we don't know what steps we are going to come up with now, then I could give Chamber judgment on that section. In the second part, you ask for an extreme effort to restore the running times of driving licences by 1 March 2020. In the context of "don't promise too much," I would really like to stick to reality. Of course, I'm doing the best I can to do it as soon as possible. So if you change "1 March 2020" to "as soon as possible," you can be sure that we are really trying to do it as soon as possible. If you agree with my explanation of the first part and with "as soon as possible," I could give the motion judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u170	Let me take a look at Mrs De Pater-Postma to see if she is prepared to accept the Minister's suggestion. I do not see Mrs De Pater-Postma appearing, but it is fine if Mr Van Aalst wants to shed his light on that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u171	Let me make a brief comment: I think it would be complicated if all kinds of changes were made to that motion twice. I don't know what's left of the motion and if that's useful. So procedurally I would say: change the motion or come up with a new motion. Otherwise, I don't know what the judge Chamber is gonna be on, if it's up to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u172	The Minister has made two suggestions. Mrs De Pater-Postma states whether the interpretation is correct and whether she wants to accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u173	I told you, I really want to challenge the Minister to make the most of this. I really think the Minister and the CBR can do this, so I really want to leave the motion as it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u174	I'll ask the Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u175	Well, I'm sorry about that. I would urge Mrs De Pater to do so and ask her if she really wants to do so. Because that gives us the idea that we can make it to 1 March. I've just given hard figures from the Galan Group with realistic deadlines. I'm so afraid we're giving people hope again that we may not be able to live up to. You can truly be convinced that we will take all the steps we can. I also really offer to give you as precise a description as possible in that monthly report. But I just can't live up to this. I can't guarantee that, so I'd have to discourage the motion anyway. I regret that, because I wholeheartedly endorse it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u176	The motion in part No. 745 is therefore not recommended, unless amended. We have that category. Perhaps Mrs De Pater-Postma will think about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u177	Yeah, I hope so. Let's talk about that later. The motion at No. 746 comes from Mr Laçin and relates to the stable disease. The motion calls on the government to establish a similar coulance regime for this purpose. You probably feel it coming, and you mentioned it yourself: I would ask you to hold this motion until we have the response of the Health Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u178	I got convinced. I will, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u179	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u180	The motion in part No. 747 is also by Mr Laçin's hand. It calls on the government to establish a generous compensation scheme. That is, of course, very much in line with Mrs De Pater's motion, which asks us to investigate what can be done. I would therefore like to ask you to hold this motion until Mrs De Pater's motion has been withdrawn, because then we can see whether we are actually going to draw up something like this and what it should look like.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u181	I have a little more difficulty with that, because I also mentioned in the second term that I tabled a similar motion in April to look at additional compensatory measures. It was unanimously adopted by the Chamber. Today I hear from the Minister once again only a list of what is possible at the CBR. In my opinion, the time for research into additional measures is long past. I think we both think it's a mess and that it really needs to get right. As far as I am concerned, measures are now appropriate, including from the government. Can the Minister live with this lecture?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u182	It can't be both at the same time. I've given Mrs. De Pater's motion of censure Chamber. It asks us to investigate what is possible. A number of suggestions have also been made. I shall have to consider it carefully first, and if that motion is adopted, I shall have to report to your Chamber on that. After that, your motion could be cut.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u183	I shall look at Mr Laçin one more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u184	Very briefly, Mrs De Pater is tabling her motion today. My motion, which was adopted unanimously, was adopted on 17 April. So I expected that investigation to have taken place long ago. But I will think about it for a while, and then I will probably hold the motion before tomorrow's vote, if I can reach that conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u185	And if Mr Laçin does not hold his motion, what is your appreciation of the motion in part No. 747?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u186	Then I would like to advise against it until I have completed the examination of the various possibilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u187	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u188	The motion in part No. Mrs Van Brenn's 748 is not addressed to the cabinet; that is a ruling of the Chamber. So I don't have to say anything about that. The motion in part No. 749 is Mr Schonis's hand. It calls on the Government to make every effort, for those who meet all the characteristics, to introduce the announced administrative renewal of the driving licence for 75-plussers as soon as possible. Actually, that's a little along the lines of what Mrs De Pater is saying. Again, there's a date in there that I can't commit to. But this motion I can give judgment Chamber. The motion in part No. Mr Van Aalst asked the Government to postpone continuing training on Code 95 until further notice. I'd like to advise against that motion. That won't surprise him either. The motion in part No. 751 is also by Mr Van Aalst's hand. It invites the government to strike a line by any rate increase at the CBR for 2020. I have just promised you that you will include the rates for the coming year in the reporting process. I would ask Mr Van Aalst to hold this motion until we have mapped it out for him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u189	Let me take a look at Mr Van Aalst.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u190	I like that suggestion, but we're not gonna do that. I am counting on the support of the Chamber to simply send out the signal that we do not accept that the CBR raises the rates.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u191	If Mr Van Aalst does not hold up his motion, and it looks very much like Mr Van Aalst, what is your appreciation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u192	Then I dissuade her, especially since it says "any kind of tariff increase." Of course, there are also parts of the CBR that simply function well. For that reason, the motion is dissuaded. Then I come to the motion on part No. 752 by Mrs Ploumen. I'm only very happy about that, so I'm happy to give it to you, Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u193	Thank you. Finally, there is another afterburner by Mr Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u194	With your permission, Mr. Chairman, I would like to ask a question. I do not need a direct answer to that, but there is a young person in the gallery who has asked us a question via Twitter. It concerns emergency treatment, which is only possible with existing driving licences and not with the application for new driving licences, in his case for a driving licence. Can the Minister pass this question on to the CBR? Why can an emergency procedure only apply to existing driving licences and not to new driving licences? Can it come back to this in writing and indicate whether improvements are possible according to the CBR?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u195	This is a very innovative way of asking questions. But let's reward the diehards in the stands. I will also include that question in the report. Well, that seems the most practical thing to me. Yeah? Then that's what we'll do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u196	Very special and also nice that the Minister will do so. I thank the Minister for her contribution to this debate. We have come to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-11-tweedekamer-12.u197	I have agreed with the Members that we are going to vote tomorrow on the motions that have been tabled. I would also, of course, like to thank the Members of Parliament, the people in the public gallery and any viewers at home.
