ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u1	The next item is the debate on the prosecution of four suspects for involvement in bringing down the MH17. I would like to welcome the Foreign Minister and the Minister for Justice and Security and give Mr Van Dam the floor as the first speaker. I think he is also the applicant for this debate. He's nodding.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Let me begin with compliments on the MH17 once again. Last summer, we had five years of remembrance. I would like to thank the Cabinet for all the support it has given to bring about a valuable memorial. The policy towards the MH17 is characterised by persistence and courage on the part of the cabinet. That's fine. The same applies to the prosecution and prosecution decisions; there is a concrete date in March next year. I also refer to the King's speech at the United Nations General Assembly. All I can say is that those are the right signals. Unfortunately, I would also like to dwell on a number of other things by the nature of my position. First of all, that's the procedure around the witness or the suspect Tsemach. Can the Ministers reconstruct how that went in the months of June to September? Can we then begin with 20 May, the day when the new President of Ukraine, Mr Zelensky, took office? What activities has the Dutch government undertaken to get in direct contact with that new president, knowing that he might have a different approach to neighbouring Russia than the previous president? Did the Prime Minister or the Foreign Minister get on the plane shortly after May 20 to set the watches in Kiev? How did it go on June 27, when Tsemach was apprehended with a heroic action, an action where one command was killed and one command disabled? We owe them a big thank you. Was that Ukraine's or JIT's action? Did the Cabinet know about that? I do not get the impression, because a letter from the cabinet shows that the government was not informed of this until mid-August. Not before, in such an important international case? What about this suspect's status at that time? First he's called a witness. On September 5th, the national prosecutor writes a letter to Ukraine that Tsemach is still a suspect and that he should remain available. But he was already taken out of occupied territory by commandos, wasn't he? Is that what you do to a witness? Seems like you're gonna need a little more than that. What about the functioning of the treaty with Ukraine, which we have discussed extensively here in the Chamber, with agreements on prosecution? With the first best suspect we have in mind, that effect did not convince me directly, I can say. I would like to have a statement from the Ministers on that period. Mr. Chairman. A second point is the closure of Ukraine's airspace and its investigation. Ministers know my displeasure at not examining further the progress of the incomplete closure of airspace in the days preceding the shooting down of the MH17. The government's view is that further investigation of the facts has no added value, combined with the statement that there are currently insufficient grounds for holding Ukraine liable. I call that a catch 22 reasoning. I can see why the cabinet should deal with this matter with a certain degree of caution. Ukraine has so far been very well involved in the JIT investigation. Without it, we wouldn't have gotten this far. Should there ever be a question of state liability, that seems to me to be a very relevant point. However, the OVV report states that there were enough indications for the Ukrainian government to close the airspace above eastern Ukraine in the days before 17 July 2014. But that's all there is to it. Those indications have not been fully assessed on research data, such as radar data, or on statements made by data subjects, such as air traffic controllers. Time is running out, memories fade, data is lost. The importance of that real, complete fact-finding is about more than just state liability. I really don't want to talk about that today. It's about insight for next of kin, knowing if anything could have been prevented, understanding what happened. This includes justice and learning from situations of this kind for new, similar situations that may arise, war situations in countries that are overflown. I would like to know what the government is currently thinking about doing that more complete fact-finding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u3	Thank you, Mr. Van Dam. I now give the floor to Mr Van Ojik on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u4	Thank you, Mr President. I too had the privilege of attending this summer's commemoration which Mr Van Dam has already spoken about. I like to join his words. I was once again struck by the fact that the next of kin praised the way in which the cabinet operated on this issue from the very beginning. My group also shares that praise. I just want to say that again. With the Russian demand for Mr Tsemach to speak to Mr Van Dam there as well as about a Ukrainian being part of that recent prisoner exchange, Russia has shown the international community that it wants to conceal the true cause of MH17 taking down and that it does not respect the relevant Resolution 2166. It's a slap in the face of the next of kin. The Foreign Minister undoubtedly spoke to his Russian counterpart recently, perhaps even last week at the UN General Assembly. I was wondering whether this was still the case there and whether the Foreign Minister could tell us anything about the Russian response to the displeasure I believe the Minister expressed in the Netherlands. I was also wondering, perhaps, that a strange question to the Minister of Security and Justice, or such an extradition request, such a prisoner exchange issue, could actually be considered as some kind of implicit admission of guilt and, in that sense, could possibly play a role in the process beginning next spring, or perhaps in Russia's liability by the Dutch Government. But I'm gonna ask you that without knowing my own answer. I wonder what the Minister thinks of that. Does the fact that there is a new Ukrainian government lead in a certain way to a change of direction and a different approach? Could it lead, for example, to Ukraine joining the Netherlands and Australia when it comes to the question of liability? Has that been discussed with Ukraine? The Foreign Minister may be able to say something about that. A brief word about the unit of the Joint Investigation Team, or actually the lack of unity in the JIT. We all know that the Malaysian Prime Minister has made some very damaging statements, which he was also addressed to. He'll come back to that later. I would like to ask the Foreign Minister how he sees this. Is the unit of the JIT still proud of itself? In this context, are there any signs that the other countries within the JIT might now wish to join the liability procedure initiated by the Netherlands and Australia against Russia? Countries such as Belgium, Ukraine and, of course, Malaysia itself. Finally. At the end of last week, the Netherlands joined the governance of the ICAO International Aviation Organisation. This may once again create opportunities for achieving what we have been discussing here for five years since the terrible events in 2014, namely that every effort should be made to organise air safety in such a way that this can never happen again. In other words, it cannot actually be left to individual airlines or individual countries over which airlines fly, whether airspace is closed. That must be an international consideration and an international decision. ICAO is the appropriate organisation for this and the question is whether the Netherlands sees a chance to take a number of steps forward. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u5	Thank you, Mr. Van Ojik. I now give the floor to Mr Van Wijngaarden on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u6	Mr. Chairman. Five years ago, something so unimaginable happened, that everyone is still wondering how this could have happened today. Who is responsible for this? Why wasn't that airspace shut down? Why was it flown over? Why was the button pressed? "The next of kin to the 298 victims expect justice. We will not rest until justice is done. All countries should cooperate in finding the truth about MH17." With these words, a week ago at the UN General Assembly, His Majesty called upon the international community, in an impressive and powerful way, on behalf of all the Dutch people, to contribute to the goal that everyone in this room shares: the perpetrators behind MH17 must not escape their punishment. Diplomatic pressure on the Russian Federation remains necessary. Can Minister Blok in this Chamber, with due regard for all the usual restrictions regarding communications on diplomatic matters with the Chamber, share how he generally works to encourage Russia to act cooperatively? For example, what can we expect from the EU and our allies? Mr. Chairman. The VVD not only wants justice on paper, we also want the perpetrators to be physically convicted once they have been identified. That's gonna be quite a job. The now infamous prisoner exchange is a damper for all concerned. The jubilant international reactions to the exchange made me personally almost feel as if we were alone in the Netherlands: David versus Goliath. The fact that there was also an MH17 participant in the exchange was not very well noticed internationally, but is the case also lost? I'm not that gloomy and I don't think anyone has to be. We should keep our eyes on the ball and not be distracted. A few years ago, few people dared to hope that the MH17 criminal trial would begin on 9 March 2020. That shows two things. Firstly, that the path to justice is long and erratic and puts everyone's patience to the test. Secondly, the keeper wins. Step by step, the cabinet works towards the common goal: that those responsible should be accountable for their actions. The Netherlands cannot emphasise enough that Russia and Ukraine are also bound by the UN Security Council Resolution 2166. His Majesty's speech marks the government's maximum efforts to maintain international pressure on Russia. The Russian Federation is also a member of the UN and Russia is also committed to complying with UN Resolution 2166. The funding of the UN Charter does not stop at the Ural Mountains. From the Vliegramp MH17 Foundation, we were able to receive the results of a family survey, which shows a great deal of confidence for the cabinet and the other organisations involved, such as the Public Prosecutor. On behalf of the VVD, I would like to express our appreciation for this towards the cabinet. The same applies to the fact that this cabinet managed to hear the MH17 suspect involved in the prisoner exchange. It contributes to the truth finding that this worked. It shows what a small country can be big at and it shows once again that patience and perseverance can bear fruit. On behalf of the VVD, I hope that we will continue on that course in harmony. Finally, when it comes to what it was all about, namely truth finding, there are questions about not closing down Ukrainian airspace. Further research may help clarify why that airspace wasn't closed, causing the fatal MH17 flight to fly over Ukrainian territory. I understand CDA and SP are coming up with a proposal for this. The VVD will judge that with sympathetic feelings.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u7	Thank you, Mr. Van Wijngaarden. I now give the floor to Mr Sjoerdsma on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I, too, would like to dwell on the impressive commemoration we were allowed to experience this summer. What always stays with me most is the calmness, determination, strength and resilience of all the next of kin who show themselves there again. I believe that this should be an inspiration for all of us in this house, but certainly also for the cabinet. I would like to begin by thanking the Public Prosecutor and other organisations for all the efforts they make to provide relatives with information about the criminal proceedings and how they can get a place in the process. I think this is extremely important and it deserves a great deal of appreciation. Unfortunately, there are also less good things to report. A few weeks ago, we discussed the exchange of prisoners between Ukraine and Russia and the exchange of a suspect, Tsemach. Back then, I was angry, and in the meantime, I've only gotten angrier. This also has something to do with what Mr Van Wijngaarden suggested, the yelling around this prisoner exchange. They were prisoners who had taken Russia, even though they had no right to do so. They were Ukrainian sailors, who, according to the Law of the Sea, should have been returned long ago. Then, despite that determination, it feels as if it is getting a bit out of hand, as if the international community is not trying to solve that Ukraine conflict incomprehensiblely, which is just one tooth less priority. I would ask the Minister to confirm that this is not the case, that this is not the case, that we can continue to count on the support of our European partners, that there really was an MH17 suspect in that prisoner exchange and that we did not want to. Mr. Chairman. I say this also because we had a treaty with Ukraine and that treaty states that we have the opportunity to hear any suspects via a video connection and that the Ukrainian judge will follow a possible Dutch penalty. It follows from that that, if you have a suspect, especially if you have been brought in by special forces behind the lines, you will not then hand him over to the country that we, as the Netherlands, together with Australia, have made public. This minister says: that is not against the treaty. I wonder. It may not be against the letter of the treaty, but it goes against the spirit of the treaty. I would also like a response from the Foreign Minister, because it is simply very frustrating that we have lost this man for the time being. I would also like to ask the Foreign Minister what he did in New York. I saw that he met at least with the other MH17 countries and I am grateful to him for that. But what has he done to address Russia on these four suspects that have already been mentioned, but also on the extradition of this Ukrainian Tsemach? What was Russia's reaction to that? After all, Russia is bound by Resolution 2166 and I would prefer to see the Russian ambassador get a registration number here: UN 2166, because they do not seem to want to remember, our friends in Moscow, that they are kept to UN resolutions which they themselves have supported. I find that very frustrating. The one about Russia. Finally, on airspace. I support the questions raised by my colleague from the CDA. The OVV has previously stated that the airspace should have been closed by Ukraine. Further research is therefore needed and I think it is even more necessary after I saw what happened this summer when Iran shot an American drone off the sky off the coast of Iran. 'Cause what happened? If you looked on flight radar, you'd see those flights going on in intensity like nothing happened. Like nothing was learned from this whole process, nothing at all! Mr President, that cannot be done. There's no way. I would like to call on these ministers and the cabinet to ensure that there is also an organisation at European level that can force us to avoid certain areas and that we do not go there anymore. Let us use that seat in the ICAO International Aviation Organisation, as Mr Van Ojik rightly said, to really do something about this. For five years after that, we have not learned those lessons in the field of flight safety, and that is a disgrace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u9	Thank you, Mr. Sjoerdsma. I now give the floor to Mrs Ploumen on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u10	Mr. Chairman. The hit on the MH17 five years ago struck deep wounds. Of course in the first place with the next of kin, but also with all of us. All over the Netherlands, we felt this immense grief. It is therefore also a good thing that the cabinet is looking for justice with determination and determination. My group, the Labour Party, supports the cabinet in this. That is why, in Mr Van Ojik's words, it was a cold shower in our face or in the words of Minister Blok, when it appeared that the prisoner exchange that colleagues already talked about between Russia and Ukraine also involved the transfer of Vladimir Tsemach to Russia. I have a question for Minister Blok. Last week was the United Nations General Assembly. Has there been any opportunity to speak with Russia's foreign minister after our king's appeal? Has there been any contact there with the representatives of Ukraine, perhaps with the new President? Has there also been talk with the Prime Minister of Malaysia, who said to others that the research team, which is working with so much determination by different countries, has been regularly watered down? If the Minister could tell us whether these talks have taken place and how they have been conducted, my group would appreciate that. Mr. Chairman. The Labour Party also sees the government's efforts to shape preparations for the process. It recently became clear that the cabinet is making financial resources available for this purpose. That has our full support. We would also like to hear from the ministers what progress has been made on the preparations. It is very practical, but yes, it is actually much more than practical, and there is also the question: will there be room for all the next of kin who want to be present? Mr. Chairman. I agree with Mr Van Ojik's questions about the seat that the Netherlands can take in the international aviation authority and the possibilities it offers to never allow a disaster, an attack like this to happen again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u11	Thank you, Mrs Ploumen. I call Mr Van Nispen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u12	After years of research, it is a good thing that in the relatively short term, in March next year, the trial against the suspects of taking down MH17 will begin. It is very much to be hoped that this will lead to justice, which has been awaited for so long. How optimistic are the ministers about overall progress? Are we still getting closer to the truth? Do we go step by step to justice? In view of a number of negative developments which have already been mentioned, how do the Ministers see this? Three of the four suspects were to stay in Russia and the other in the rebel region in eastern Ukraine. Both countries do not issue their own nationals, which is well-known, but these countries must participate in the process. To this end, a UN Security Council resolution, Resolution 2166, is also required. Can the Minister indicate how the Netherlands has been calling for cooperation from these countries in the process since these four suspects became known? And how did you react to that? These questions are all the more important now that the Public Prosecutor's Office simply states that Russia has not responded adequately, incorrectly or not to requests for legal aid. That's a big deal. This is why diplomatic action has been taken, the Minister writes to the Chamber. I would ask the Minister to deal with this in greater detail. What steps have been taken and how have they been taken? Then the prisoner exchange, also mentioned, which caused another potentially important Ukrainian witness to stay in Russia, or indeed a suspect, rightly asked Mr Van Dam now to stay in Russia. It is very sad, and then I express myself very carefully, that Ukraine has agreed to this. The prosecution has requested the arrest of this person in Russia. Can the Minister indicate how this country has responded to this request and how has the Minister been able to strengthen this request from the Public Prosecutor? There were also statements by the Prime Minister of Malaysia, who questioned the independence of the criminal MH17 investigation. I felt that the Minister reacted rather soberly to this by stating that concrete Malaysian cooperation in criminal investigations and the official position of that country does not appear to be altered. But I find that worrying, especially because of that word "appears." How does it seem that Malaysia is still cooperating and that there is no change of opinion? Couldn't the Minister say whether it is or not? Why was it chosen to use this word and what did the Minister hear when contact was made with Malaysia? Can the Minister remove the ambiguity on this point? Then making Russia liable for the role this country plays in bringing down flight MH17. The Netherlands, together with Australia, has made Russia state-owned, and other countries have been invited to participate, for example Belgium, the United Kingdom and Malaysia, but these countries are still not participating. Can the Minister go into this again? What are the reasons for these countries not participating and are they still working on this one way or another, so that more countries join the Netherlands and Australia? Finally, a few comments on the possible liability of Ukraine for keeping the airspace open, but at least the further investigation that should take place. The SP hasn't been very satisfied with this either for a long time. In a letter from May this year, the Minister states that there was no convincing legal evidence for Ukraine's successful liability. Additional research is not necessary, the Minister adds. But in the same letter, the Minister talks about his own constant investigation. What does that mean? That remains unclear to me. In particular, the SP continues to find this unsatisfactory, as the Minister states that the Security Research Council did a good job when it published the report after the disaster in 2015. That report makes it very clear that Ukraine had sufficient reason to close down the airspace for civil aviation. That should have happened. I would ask the Minister, in the light of his conclusion that Ukraine cannot be successfully held liable at the moment, to re-examine this determination of the Research Council. In his opinion, does this have insufficient legal significance? Finally, I also call on the Minister to make every effort to maintain close contact with the relatives, to involve them and, above all, to keep them informed. That is going well now, for which we appreciate it, but it is very important that it stays that way and that attention does not slacken on this point either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u13	Thank you, Mr. Van Nispen. By way of derogation from the list of speakers, I shall first give the floor to Mr De Roon, on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u14	Mr. Chairman. The PVV supports the decision of the D.A. to prosecute three Russians and one Ukrainian. The criminal trial is getting closer to that. But a happy outcome, I fear, one that does justice to the murder of 196 compatriots, is getting further out of the picture. Russia is hardly cooperating, the anti-Semitic Prime Minister of Malaysia continues to cast doubt and Ukraine has now also failed to do so. As part of that prisoner exchange, Ukraine would have handed over an MH17 crown witness to Russia. Later, in a letter to Ukraine, the prosecution even talked about the extradition of a suspect. Can the Minister of Security and Justice confirm that this Tsemach was already a suspect at the time? Was and is Tsemach, the man I'm talking about who led an air defense brigade in eastern Ukraine, indeed suspect? What does the transfer of Tsemach to Russia mean for the relationship with Ukraine inside and outside the JIT? Can Ukraine still be trusted, now that it has turned out to have used a key witness or suspect as a means of exchange in 297 homicide cases in a transaction with Russia? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. 9 March next year, the MH17 trial will start, without suspects in the benches, without a key witness and without unconditional political support from initial allies. It is therefore beginning to look more and more like the case is slipping through the hands of this cabinet. And I must say that it also seems that the cabinet owes it to itself. Because nothing shows that the cabinet has taken everything out of the closet to prevent the transfer of Tsemach to Russia. The fact that this Tsemach is worth gold is demonstrated by the fact that Russia saw him as a crucial part of the exchange. Without Tsemach there would be no exchange at all, the Russian demand was. And yet our rulers were invisible and silent in the weeks preceding that exchange, even though they had knowledge that Tsemach should be involved in that exchange. Silent diplomacy seems to have failed. And I'm sure Tsemach wouldn't have been so stupid to give just before his extradition just as full openness to a rushed employee of the Dutch state's attorney's office, would he? I'd like a response from the rulers. Mr. Chairman. Where Russia and Ukraine have understoodably thought about their own interests with the exchange of prisoners, the PVV concludes that this cabinet has harmed its own interests. Why didn't the Netherlands play the case extremely high in August and look for support from other JIT countries, to prevent the exchange of Tsemach, and publicly threatened with counter-measures? I would like a reaction, because I still find that incomprehensible. Mr. Chairman. The PVV has previously indicated that for the full truth finding not only the cooperation of Russia but also that of Ukraine is indispensable. Now that both countries do not, or at least do not, fully cooperate, it is seriously damaging the truth. A call by the King at the UN for full cooperation cannot repair that damage. And why didn't the king alongside Russia also call for Ukraine to cooperate fully? I would also like to receive a response from the Foreign Minister. UN Resolution 2166 instructs countries to fully cooperate in criminal investigations. Ukraine has lapped that resolution through the exchange of Tsemach. Or do the ministers disagree with me? Finally, I would like to ask the Foreign Minister whether the talks with Russia on state liability are still ongoing. Is that gonna go well? Or is that actually dead in front of the closet? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u15	Thank you, Mr. De Roon. Finally, I give the floor to Mrs Van der Graaf on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u16	Thank you, Mr President. I will start with a quote: "If innocent citizens are victims of lawlessness and war violence, the international community cannot and must not just stand by and watch. Perpetrators must be tried." With these words, our Prime Minister spoke to the United Nations General Assembly five years ago. Today I want to make those words sound again when we talk about the prosecution of the suspects. We do this especially for the next of kin of this attack, which their loved ones have been missing for five years now. Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to express my appreciation for the hard, moving and complex work done by JIT. This has led to a criminal trial against four suspects on 9 March. I also express my appreciation towards the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Dutch Government. When I hear from next of kin how closely they are involved in the process, how well they are supported, also legally, I am grateful for that. I would like to hear from the Minister of Justice how, in the run-up to the trial and during the trial, the rights of the next of kin will be safeguarded as far as possible. Mr. Chairman. This is, of course, without prejudice to the fact that it does not yet appear that four suspects will actually appear in the dock in March. And that's incredibly painful. It is incomprehensible and insulting that Russia should protect this suspect. It seems that with the prisoner exchange, including the Ukrainian Tsemach, Russia implicitly pleads guilty. I'm asking for a response from the government. The Christian Union appreciates that in his speech last week at the United Nations, the King also drew attention to this. Can the Foreign Minister look back on the talks he had at the General Assembly on the MH17, and in particular the extradition of the suspect residing in Russia? Mr. Chairman. I expressed my appreciation for the JIT, but I am also very worried. This is due to the double attitude of Malaysia, which colleagues have already pointed out, and to Ukraine's kneel towards Russia when it comes to extradition of the suspect. The Christian Union wonders what consequences this has for the unity within the JIT. What impact does this have on cooperation? Can the effectiveness and independence of the JIT still be ensured? I'd like a response from the cabinet to that. Mr. Chairman. In addition to the prosecution of the four suspects, the question of Russian state liability arises. Mr De Roon has just asked. I agree with his question: what progress has been made on this? Any progress? Mr. Chairman. With regard to the complaint of the next of kin and the case they have brought before the European Court of Human Rights, the cabinet has said: we support this case; we also intend to intervene. I can very well imagine the question of the next of kin. That question is that the Dutch Government, before intervening in that case and putting forward the cabinet position, also shares the cabinet position with the next of kin. Can the Secretary of State undertake to do so here? Mr. Chairman. I agree with the questions that colleagues have asked about truth finding and how important it is for answers to be given to questions relating to closing Ukrainian airspace. I understand that there is a proposal on this from the CDA and the SP. The Christian Union can support that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u17	Thank you, Mrs Van der Graaf. That brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u18	I give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u19	Yes, Chairman, Justice and Security. Thank you. Finding the truth and justice for all 298 victims of taking down flight MH17 and for their next of kin remains the top priority for the Cabinet. On 19 June, the JIT informed the next of kin that the prosecution of four suspects will start on 9 March 2020 at 10.00 hours. It will then involve three suspects with the Russian, and one suspect with Ukrainian nationality. They're suspected of taking down flight MH17 and the murder of 298 people. For the next of kin this is an important step, but it is also a step that will evoke emotions again. Details that may be painful will be discussed during the sessions. I wish the next of kin good luck with that. In the meantime, the big question is whether suspects will be present at the hearing, or whether they will be represented by a counselor. It doesn't have to matter for the progress of the process. Suspects who do not wish to appear before a court and are not represented by a counsel may be convicted in absentia. As mentioned above, the process will start on 9 March 2020. There is not much to say about the duration of the process at the moment. The Public Prosecutor's Office has informed the survivors to take account of a duration of one to two years in default proceedings and three to four years in the event of a conflict of laws. I am confident that this process will take place independently and impartially. The trial is, in principle, an ordinary criminal procedure, which takes place in accordance with the rules of Dutch criminal procedure. Given the scale and complexity of the issue, it is obviously necessary to take specific measures. As I said during the debate with your Chamber in April of this year, we are ready. This criminal investigation remains, of course, a major challenge. The plane crashed into a conflict zone. As a result, it was not possible to secure the crime scene and to make full room for forensics on site. Your Chamber was informed by letter that the Russian Federation did not respond, improperly or adequately to requests for legal aid. There was the recent exchange of prisoners, where the Ukrainian Tsemach was made part of an exchange by pressure from the Russian Federation and thus out of reach of the search team. As has already been reported to your Chamber, the D.A. wanted to keep this person available to investigate his role and involvement in the offences in question. First of all, I would like to answer Mr Van Nispen's question on that point. Both the Public Prosecutor's Office and the government have done everything possible to prevent Tsemach from becoming part of the exchange for the reasons I just mentioned. The prosecution also sent an arrest request to the Russian Federation immediately after the exchange. Tsemach has Ukrainian nationality and can therefore in principle be extradited by Russia to the Netherlands. As soon as he is arraigned in the Netherlands before the judge-supervisor, the Public Prosecutor will inform the next of kin. I would now like to add a number of answers to questions relating to Mr Tsemach. By the way, this is the vast majority of the questions I will answer. Mr Van Dam asked how it went on 27 June, when Tsemach was arrested with a heroic action. That was an action by the Ukrainian authorities. They arrested and detained him for crimes unrelated to the taking down of MH17. This action created the possibility for the JIT, the Joint Investigation Team, to hear Tsemach, and so it did. The cabinet was not aware in advance of the action taken by the Ukrainian authorities, following Mr Van Dam's question. He also asked: what was the status of Mr Tsemach during that period? The D.A. has indicated that they were interested in Tsemach and that for that reason they would like him to be available in Ukraine. This was also the aim of the cabinet's diplomatic actions. The investigation into the role of Tsemach in bringing down MH17 is still ongoing. Mr Van Ojik asked: is this exchange of prisoners an implicit admission of guilt? Such a prisoner exchange between Ukraine and the Russian Federation is primarily a matter between those two countries. To the motivation for the Russian Federation to make Tsemach part of that exchange, we can only guess. Of course, we don't know that officially. The Dutch Government regrets that Tsemach was made part of that exchange by the Russian Federation. It is clear that the government insisted that the Public Prosecutor's Office should have the opportunity to keep Mr. Tsemach at the disposal of the JIT, the Joint Investigation Team, also in the context of the further investigation. Mr Sjoerdsma asked how this now relates to the bilateral MH17 treaty between Ukraine and the Netherlands. That bilateral treaty regulates the transfer of criminal proceedings and provides for the possibility for a Ukrainian suspect who is in Ukraine to participate in the criminal proceedings in the Netherlands via a video connection. The Convention also provides for the enforcement of a judgment imposed in the Netherlands. However, in this context, the Ukrainian authorities have not infringed any obligations arising from that bilateral agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u20	That's the letter of the treaty. I think the purpose of the treaty was to make sure that's my guess, but that's how we handled it in this Chamber to make sure that if there were suspects in Ukraine, who couldn't avoid their rightful punishment and that they would be involved in the criminal proceedings. This is particularly inconsistent with the extraditing of such a suspect to the country that we have declared to be responsible for the state. Of course, I know the literal text of the treaty, but I would like to ask the Minister this: does this not fit in with the spirit of that treaty?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u21	That is, of course, difficult in so far as this kind of international treaty is concerned. These kinds of treaties don't come into being overnight. I think it is quite clear that the Dutch Government is disappointed and displeased with the fact that this exchange of prisoners took place and that Mr Tsemach was part of it at the request of the Russian Federation. That may be very clear, but then, as Minister for Justice and Security, if that question is asked, I must make sure that there has been a breach of that treaty. That is not the case in the letter of that treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u22	'Not literally the case'... Let me put it this way: at least it is not entirely in accordance with UN Resolution 2166; I think that resolution is also well known to the Ukrainians. We're actually at the start of the criminal trial and we now have four suspects and this gentleman, who may or may not be a suspect; that would bring the numerator to five. And there could be more suspects just like that. If this is not a breach of the Treaty, then the question is whether or not this loophole should be mentioned in this Treaty. Should we not prevent this from ever happening again in the future? That would now be my question to the Minister of Justice: should we not, in view of what has happened here, amend this treaty to ensure that this cannot happen again?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u23	As I have just said, the point is that the Dutch Government and, in addition, the Public Prosecutor's Office, of course, are disappointed by the fact that this has taken place. That's one. Two: it was ultimately a trade-off that the Ukrainian Government has made and, once again, the letter of this treaty does not offer any possibility. Three: the Ukrainian Government will, in turn, make that assessment again in the context of something that we say we place our interests in a very different place, namely in the case of the MH17 trial. This also applies to a possible extension of that treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u24	Finally, Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u25	What the Minister is saying now is disturbing to me. In fact, he says: prepare yourself for these cases to occur again, because Ukraine's interests will not necessarily be in line with those of the Netherlands. I get that to some extent. I am aware of what is happening in Eastern Ukraine and of the importance that Ukraine has in bringing stability there, but that carries the risk that the importance of justice here will be crushed by geopolitical interests. Then I have a question for the Minister of Justice, but I also think the Minister of Foreign Affairs: how are we going to ensure that this does not happen in the coming months?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u26	As Minister of Justice and Security, I continue to stress that what has happened here, namely a prisoner exchange involving Mr Tsemach, who was detained in Ukraine but which is important for the MH17 investigation, was certainly a disappointment for the JIT, for the Public Prosecutor's Office and for the Dutch Government; I think that is a cautious expression. Let me start with that. You cannot infer from my words that this will happen again in the future. I do, however, believe that Mr Sjoerdsma did so in his first term too, which seems to have been set by the Ukrainian Government as a geopolitical priority, which we find incomprehensible here at least. But that is a reality that exists. The letter of that treaty also leaves no room for anything else. We still have to remember that the treaty is about the possibility of a Ukrainian suspect participating in the criminal proceedings in the Netherlands via a video connection. That treaty does not regulate the possibility of extradition of a Ukrainian national, as Ukraine does not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u27	In his speech, the Minister explained the tradition of Tsemach by Ukraine to Russia by saying: he did end up in Russia, but he has Ukrainian nationality; so it is still conceivable that he will eventually end up in the Netherlands before the criminal trial, because he can be extradited by Russia. Theoretically, that is possible, but I have clearly explained in my own term why Tsemach is apparently worth gold to Russia. But apart from that, any East Ukrainian, anyone who has fought on that side or lived or lived there, can obtain Russian nationality, if he so wishes. I think applying for that nationality is the first thing Tsemach does. So I ask the Minister: is the thought that Tsemach will ever be extradited by Russia for a trial in the Netherlands, not entirely imaginary?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u28	The fact that that possibility exists, as Mr De Roon actually puts it in his question, means that it is not imaginary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u29	That's an unsatisfactory answer, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u30	I can't help it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u31	I'm just explaining why the odds of that are extremely low. That chance is about as small as when you think a camel can crawl through the eye of the needle. That's how small the odds are. Can't you just say it's imaginary? It is theoretically possible, but in practice it is imaginary. Does the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u32	I should repeat the answer I just gave. That is not because of me, but because of the way in which the question has been asked. But I still want to fly it in another way. I think that this exchange of prisoners is salt in the wound of the Netherlands and especially in that of the next of kin. Let me make that very clear. I am also honest in saying that this is extremely frustrating for the Public Prosecutor's Office, for the JIT and for this government. I think the salt in that wound is enough. The House of Representatives, with the exception of one party, was very united in its support for us in the debates we had on this last year, for which Mr Blok and I very much appreciated. So I think we should also say to each other: we still want to try to do what is possible to get suspects or witnesses to the trial in the Netherlands or to involve them. All these possibilities must be put to the best possible use. The fact that we have encountered the bitter reality that the Ukrainian Government, under pressure from the Russian Federation, has made a different geopolitical choice is salt in the wound, first and foremost for the next of kin and, second, for all of us in the Netherlands. But I think we should then look at what we can do best to get it as well as possible. I keep repeating it: the possibility is still there. And if it turns out that there are also obstacles to this possibility, i.e. the possibility of an extradition request being granted by the Russian Federation, then I am sure that we will discuss this again as a Chamber and a Cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u33	That about the salt in the wound for all of us, I agree. But the Minister should not stick the patch on that wound that it is still realistic that this Tsemach will ever be brought to justice in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u34	The Public Prosecutor's Office and the JIT have shown a great deal of perseverance in this case. That is what they continue to show, and that is what should at least be done in that case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u35	I want to stay away from terms like "salt in the wound." I would particularly like to look forward. Let's face it, in the case-Tsemach there were also interests on the Ukrainian side, which... Well... What strikes me so much about this case is this. That Tsemach himself stated on media footage that he was involved. So I can't imagine he wasn't on the JIT shortlist. Then he's arrested. The contacts between the JIT and the Ukrainian side are fantastic; there are also Dutch policemen in Ukraine. You must know from day one that he's in there. You can still put down, even if someone else has been arrested for something else: he's a suspect, I want him? I have the feeling that it was only at a very late stage and that it also came through to the cabinet at a very late stage. In the Tsemach case, so be it, but I am looking to the future. How's that gonna go next time? Are we all sharp enough? Is that good enough for you? There is my concern when I look at how this case has gone, with all due respect for the commitment of everyone involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u36	I think that I should throw away the idea that I did not act adequately or too late. I think that it was central here that at some point there was a wish for a prisoner exchange between the Russian Federation and Ukraine. I believe that Mr Sjoerdsma or Mr Van Dam himself has also given some consideration to the qualification of that exchange of prisoners on the side of the Russian Federation. I am not going to go into that further, but I think that the fact that the exchange of prisoners was there in a perhaps rather short period of time is something which, as it has been shown, was no longer possible to influence, although it has been tried with all its power. As Mr Sjoerdsma pointed out earlier in the interruption, it is because it has clearly set a geopolitical priority above the priority of justice in the context of MH17.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u37	I think it has certainly had a very important influence, but if I look at the letter from the chief officer of the national parquet on 5 September, then I think Tsemach has already been released; two days later he is exchanged, then last minute the label "suspect" is still attached to it. That's very strange to me. That's especially the point I'm talking about and thinking, guys, how's that going and how's that gonna go next time?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u38	Then Mr Van Dam wrongly does not refer to what I just said to him: the JIT was given the opportunity to hear him when he was arrested and that has happened. The suggestion that there would have been no active action in this area seems to have been contradicted. Again, the fact that at some point there was a clear plan for a prisoner exchange, especially from the Russian Federation, is not a circumstance on which the JIT or the Public Prosecutor's Office has, as it turns out, had any influence. That has nothing to do with the inappropriate response of those authorities. Mr. Chairman. I think I have answered Mr De Roon's questions as well. I just want to point out that we should not make Mr Tsemach's position like there is nothing else. There are, as has been said, four suspects who were prosecuted in June of this year. It does not depend on the situation with regard to Mr Tsemach. Mr. Chairman. This is the last question I wanted to answer. Mrs Ploumen asked about the state of play regarding the preparation of the criminal trial. In July 2017, the decision was taken that a prosecution can take place in the Netherlands and according to Dutch criminal law. The necessary preparations began immediately. As far as possible, account will be taken of the interests of the next of kin; Mrs Van der Graaf also asked for this. There is also close coordination with all relevant parties. Plenary sessions are about to take place at the Justice Complex Schiphol, the JCS. That's an extra secure courtroom and location. All kinds of additional safety measures have also been taken. The case law will ensure that the sessions can be monitored via a live stream, so that the next of kin, as well as other interested parties, can follow the process live all over the world. In this context, a special website was launched on 19 June, including information on the criminal case and on which the sessions will be broadcast via a live stream. The next of kin can thus follow the sessions via the livestream. There is no courtroom in which all relatives, media and other interested parties could sit. The court has stated that on each hearing day a limited number of places are reserved for the next of kin. My ministry will ensure that a so-called satellite location is arranged on busy session days, where next of kin can, if desired, follow the sessions together and shielded through an extensive live stream with more camera positions. There will also be employees of the Public Prosecutor's Office, Victim Help The Netherlands and the court to provide explanations and assistance if necessary. And yet a question from Mrs Van der Graaf, who asked how the next of kin are being prepared. There is, of course, information taking place. That's what the D.A. is responsible for. There are also a number of meetings; there was another one on 21 September. There are also presentations provided by Victim Help The Netherlands. Information is therefore shared on how it works with the right to speak, legal aid, attending hearings and the right to access the case-file. The questions that live with the next of kin are also answered as fully as possible. The Public Prosecutor's Office also provides guided tours of the JCS at Schiphol. Personal victim interviews with experienced prosecutors will take place in the autumn. Mr President, I have come to the end of the answer to the questions in my area.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u39	Mr Sjoerdsma had another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u40	I was still chewing on what the minister said about Ukraine and geopolitics versus justice. He claims that they have done so at the highest level, so I assume that the Prime Minister himself has also worked for this. The question is: has the cabinet, has this minister, asked Ukraine for guarantees that this will not be repeated?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u41	Mr Blok will deal with all the diplomatic activities that have taken place. I've spoken from the point of view of responsibility for the JIT and the Public Prosecutor's Office about what's been done from that side. I have indicated that we have no misunderstandings about the fact that the Ukrainian Government has apparently given a higher priority to geopolitical considerations than to justice in the context of the MH17.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u42	Then I await the Foreign Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u43	Okay. I now give the floor to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank Members of Parliament, who, in fact, are all very grateful to the people who are working on this issue either at JenV or at the Public Prosecutor's Office or at the Foreign Office. It is always good to hear that appreciation from the Members of Parliament. I will answer the questions raised in the prisoner exchange, airspace, state liability proceedings, contacts with Russia and contacts with Malaysia. First of all, the prisoner exchange. This also includes, of course, direct contacts with Ukraine. Mr Van Dam asked how this went in time. President Zelensky was elected on 24 April. Soon after, the Prime Minister called to congratulate him. In that conversation, of course, he also emphasized the good cooperation around the MH17. The cabinet was informed in August by the Public Prosecutor about the possible prisoner exchange in which Tsemach would be involved. Then there was contact at all levels, including myself, with an acting Foreign Minister at that time, because the final one had not yet been appointed. That was August 22nd. Prime Minister Rutte spoke to President Zelensky again on 30 August. Those conversations then resulted in extradition being postponed for a week, so that the hearing could take place by the Public Prosecutor's Office. When the new Ukrainian minister, Prystajko, had taken office, I called him. In the meantime, last week I spoke to him extensively at the United Nations. As Mr Grapperhaus has also pointed out, we have always made it clear from the Dutch side that we felt it was completely undesirable for Tsemach to be extradited. The Ukrainian President and Minister for Foreign Affairs, both in talks with us and later in public, stated that they felt that they were in favour of an impossible choice, namely the realization of a prisoner exchange. Mr Sjoerdsma rightly pointed out that these were prisoners who had been imprisoned in violation of the law. They were sailors, and the Tribunal for the Sea has now established that they should not have been imprisoned at all. It was very important for Ukraine, for the government and for the people, to allow that prisoner exchange to take place. As the Chamber noted, it was evidently very important for the Russian Federation to get Tsemach extradited, who had been imprisoned by Ukraine with great difficulty and even with loss of human life. The Ukrainian Government made this choice when it was in favour of this trade-off. I have discussed it extensively with the Ukrainian colleague. I'll see him soon. For the future, I want to frame as much as possible that we are going to surprise each other again. While I am saying this, I always realize how complicated it is, because you can never predict whether there will be another capture with associated situations, but it will certainly be on the agenda of my follow-up talks. Mr Sjoerdsma asked whether we should deduce from the reactions to the prisoner exchange and the relationship it may have with restarting the talks between Russia and Ukraine on ending hostilities that there would be no international support for the Netherlands in our opposition to the prisoner exchange and the commitment to the trial of the suspect. Fortunately, that's not the case. Mr Sjoerdsma undoubtedly saw international organisations, namely NATO, EU and OSCE, expressing their views on the importance of this trial. I also raised it once again at the General Affairs Council, and individual European countries also raised the importance of this trial. So it is still a cold shower, but it is not the case that this has lost the very important support of international organisations and other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u45	Of course, that's always good to hear. I have certainly seen these general statements and those voices hopefully, but at the same time I have also seen the specific statements made by, for example, the French President Macron, who saw, in the exchange of prisoners, a fantastic step towards reopening the talks in Normandy. I understand, of course, a step towards peace is beautiful, but my specific question is the next. Did our European allies support us in preventing Tsemach from being traded out with Russia or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u46	Also with allies has been in contact during those crucial weeks, and that has not led to the success we have sought. We are all saddened by this, but I cannot say that there would be no such support at that time or afterwards. It has also been expressed in public, but Ukraine has been in favour of this balance as I have outlined it and has come to this conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u47	I understand that devilish dilemma for Ukraine. This has been a terrible action. They also faced another devilish dilemma at the very beginning of this disaster when they had to decide not to fight back against Russia temporarily to allow us to bring our Dutch compatriots back to the Netherlands. That has also been a great sacrifice on their part. So I understand how difficult it is for Ukraine, but my question here is a little more specific. The issue is whether we can count on the support of our allies when it comes to it. And here it was about whether an important suspect would be extradited to the country that we have declared to be responsible for the state. So that's when we had support? Did France, Great Britain and Germany put pressure on Ukraine and Russia not to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u48	We had that support, but we didn't get the outcome we wanted.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u49	The Minister understandably said that he had had contact with Ukraine about how this could have happened and that we should avoid surprising each other as much as possible in the future. Mr Tsemach has been mentioned. I do not mean naive because I share the pessimism that Mr De Roon has also mentioned, but I am going to ask the question. Since then, has the Minister also spoken with his fellow minister in Russia after the exchange of prisoners?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u50	I haven't spoken to him since. However, the Russian defendant was summoned in September, so shortly after the prisoner exchange, but I haven't spoken to Lavrov since.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u51	I am not under too much illusion in this respect, but I think it is important to hear it from the Minister here. Is he still planning on doing that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u52	Sure. I'll talk to him at regular intervals. If there is a direct cause, for example a request from OM or JIT, I will do so again immediately. That doesn't necessarily have to be a physical encounter, that could be a phone call. I come to the questions that have been asked about airspace.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u53	In addition to Mr Van Nispen's questions. In fact, I expected Minister Blok to speak with Minister Lavrov at the United Nations General Assembly in New York. Can you explain why that didn't happen? Wasn't he there? Didn't he agree to the request? The request wasn't made?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u54	As Mrs Ploumen knows, it's always a matter of full ball books in that UN week, so we didn't have an appointment there. I've spoken to him a number of times this year. As soon as there's cause, I'll call him or meet him, as I indicated. But there was no meeting there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u55	Can I say, with all due understanding for the full agendas, that I find that very regrettable? Because that would have been a time to have a meeting and not just a phone call, especially since the presence of our King and of the Prime Minister could have given weight to that meeting without having to participate in it. Let me say on behalf of my group that we are very sorry that this meeting did not take place there at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u56	Of course, it does not rule out the possibility that these meetings will take place again; they will also take place. But at those meetings it is a coming and going of people and a fitting and measuring of agendas, as Mrs Ploumen knows.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u57	A brief question from Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u58	I was actually on the same assumption. We spoke here a few weeks ago with Minister Blok during oral Question Time. Then it was about the prisoner exchange. At the end of that oral question, I had a strong impression that this would be brought to the United Nations General Assembly, after which we would have this debate to discuss what it would have resulted in. I don't need it physically at all and a call is fine too, but if Russia were to remove an important suspect from our jurisdiction, albeit remotely, a call might have been in place. So I understand the frustration.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u59	There has been a summons of the defendant, directly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u60	Okay, about the level you're doing this, you can argue. I was quite upset about this myself and so often the Foreign Minister does not talk about 'a cold shower' either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u61	You're not a minister either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u62	No, I wouldn't want to be either. I'm a Member of Parliament. That's the highest office in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u63	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u64	And I hope to be a while, too. In fact, the highest office is, of course, President, Madam President. The question is, of course, what response do we get from Russia if the temporary agent is summoned. Doesn't that reaction from Russia give us cause to look a little higher up? Because I just suspect it's just being rejected by Russia: we're not gonna do anything with this, you go on, forget it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u65	If I get the message from the Public Prosecutor or the JIT that there is such a final reaction, then I will, of course, immediately contact them myself; I already indicated that. Your question was whether there was such a final reaction. Not now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u66	Finally, Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u67	There is such a conversation with the temporary defendant, who is summoned because something very serious is happening. Then the question is... Let me put it this way: does the reaction of the Russian charger give cause for optimism that Tsemach will return to Dutch hands?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u68	I'm not gonna talk about optimism after everything that's happened, but we don't have a definitive no.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u69	When Mr Sjoerdsma asked his oral question on this matter a few weeks ago, I asked the Minister, among other things, how are you going to convey this message to Russia? I do not have his answer literally in front of me, but the Minister said at that time: we have very regular contacts with the Russians. Now it turns out that that contact has been limited to the one-off summoning of the Russian defendant. I'd like to know if that's true. If that is true, how is the Minister going to ensure that in the coming period he spoke of a cold shower, a slap in the face, that this message is clearly coming across to Russia?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u70	That wasn't the only contact. The arrest request of the Public Prosecutor was also transferred to Moscow by our ambassador. I indicated to you: as soon as I receive a request, I will contact you immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u71	I believe so, but we have just spent part of the time in this debate speculating about Ukraine's motives for participating in this prisoner exchange. Geopolitical perhaps over justice, said the Minister of Justice and Security. That is possible, but we do not have to speculate about Russia's motive, because we know that. That can only be one motive, namely frustrating the investigation and not carrying out it and thwarting Resolution 2166. That message must be sent to Russia at every opportunity and as much as possible. The question remains what else we have done, except for the one-time summoning of the defendant here. That remains the question. If that was not possible at the General Assembly last week, I would ask the Minister to convey this message directly to his colleague, Mr Lavrov, as soon as possible and not to say: I will see him again sometime soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u72	I think it is important that I do so in consultation with the JIT and the Public Prosecutor, because the timing is of course important. But I have already indicated to you: I will do so in consultation with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u73	I think we can agree that Ukraine, by handing Tsemach over to Russia, has driven the criminal investigation into the wheels. A few weeks later, the king made a speech at the UN, in which he also raised the issue of MH17, and then the king said he called on Russia to participate in the criminal investigation. My question to the Minister is: why didn't the King also call on Ukraine to participate in the criminal investigation and not to drive it in the wheels again?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u74	Because we work well with Ukraine in the JIT.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u75	If Ukraine has indeed been involved in the criminal investigation, and we agree on that, has Ukraine violated UN Security Council Resolution 2166 by handing over Tsemach to Russia?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u76	I don't think you can bring it that way. Ukraine was faced with this impossible task, as outlined by President Zelensky himself and reflected by me in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u77	It's not about the motives behind that prisoner exchange. That's not the point. The question is simply: has UN Security Council Resolution 2166 been legally violated by Ukraine by driving that criminal investigation into the wheel?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u78	Since there was a situation of coercion here, I don't think you can put it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u79	I think you can say that. Ukraine has violated that resolution and I will put it to the Chamber in a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u80	I would like to return to the contacts that have been there and are with Russia. I think it is important for us, however, to understand that perhaps not everything can be shared, to know how these contacts are going. Mr Van Nispen gives me the report of the discussion we had on this subject in connection with Mr Sjoerdsma's oral question, in which I asked the Minister: is he prepared to say that he will make contact with his Russian counterpart at the United Nations General Assembly? Then the Minister replies: the messages are sent; it is always exciting if another minister always chooses a different course or chooses the same course, but I will look for that course, yes. The question is: how did it go? Has the Minister made any active contact with his fellow minister? Didn't that colleague want to make that contact? That is just as important, especially in view of the genuinely common promise made by the Minister at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u81	Sure. I walked by him briefly once and that indeed became a very fast movement. As I indicated to you, I would like, in consultation with the D.A., to find the logical moment to establish that contact directly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u82	I can understand that. I would ask the Minister next time to bring the argument that it is going to be in consultation with OM and JIT into the debate earlier. I'd appreciate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u83	That can't be a very surprising argument. The contacts are, of course, always in consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u84	I actually wanted to wait until the Minister was ready for Russia, but we are already working on this subject so much that I am now determining the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u85	The cube is still coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u86	Yeah, well, then you've probably had this. Of course, something has changed on 19 June. At that time, the chief officer of the national parish specifically appointed someone in the Kremlin, Mr Vladislav Soerkov, who is explicitly referred to as a person involved in organising that Buk to the east of Ukraine. Mr. Surkov has been active as an assistant to President Putin since 2004. He was the first deputy prime minister. He's a Kremlinideologist. He is called the Grey Cardinal of the Kremlin. If such a person has such a direct involvement with Putin and that is said by the Dutch authorities, I suppose, independently of the cabinet, then the prosecution has its own considerations to bring things forward. What is the chance that the minister in any corridor, in whatever building in New York, will come into contact with Russia? How do you estimate that? I think that is a serious dilemma, but it is important to have a look at how contact with Russia is going to be conducted in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u87	I've had regular contacts with Lavrov over the past year. That was in the form of a visit to Moscow, which was bilateral a number of times, indeed on the occasion of international meetings, and also by telephone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u88	I interpret the previous answers in such a way that it was at least before June 19th. My question is to what extent there has been a change in the relationship between Russia and the Netherlands after 19 June. Let's face it. I have no objection whatsoever to the fact that this has been so explicitly mentioned in the public prosecutor's presentation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u89	I have no indication that that contact could not be made now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u90	Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u91	I came to the questions raised by Mr Dam and Mr Van Wijngaarden on the closure of airspace. Mr Van Dam raised the question raised in the OVV report: should Ukraine have closed its airspace and should the country be held liable on that basis? The cabinet has always indicated that, on the basis of the information we have, there is no legal basis for state liability towards Ukraine. Mr Van Dam adds: should a follow-up study be carried out, partly in view of what the OVV says about this? Legally, we see no reason to do so. It would also be a particularly difficult study in practice, because it concerns Ukraine's airspace, but inevitably also that of the Russian Federation. What we know about moving that rocket is the airspace of the two neighbouring countries. Then you must also realize the cooperation of those countries. The practical questions surrounding such an investigation do not make this an easy task. Mr Van Ojik asked whether the forthcoming membership of the ICAO Council would allow for international agreements on the safe or unsafe clearance of airspace. As Mr Van Ojik knows, the Netherlands has previously been committed to international agreements on this subject. Unfortunately, this has not led to success. Of course, we will certainly continue to look in this new position for ways of making agreements. Mr Sjoerdsma pointed to flights that also took place around the Persian Gulf, also in an area where you can ask questions about security.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u92	I know that the Netherlands has been committed to this for five years, unfortunately with a terrible reason. You'd almost say, "Who could be against that?" How is it that we are still in a situation where airlines decide whether an airspace is safe enough to fly through and that countries are still allowed to decide individually whether or not to close their airspace? That is so contrary to all the ideas about international cooperation in the field of aviation safety that you are almost wondering who might be opposed to it. That it is complicated and takes time, I understand that, but I understand that there is also political resistance in some Member States. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u93	Sure. I don't do those conversations myself. This is covered by IenW, but the core of resistance lies in giving him out of the hands of sovereignty, because it is not the country itself that indicates whether the airspace above that country is safe, but an international organisation. That would be reassuring for us, but a number of countries see it as giving away sovereignty.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u94	I assume that I do not know to what extent I actually heard the Minister say that we do not give up and that we also have many allies in it. Surely there will be, I suppose, a lot of countries that support us in that fight? There will be countries that do not want to give up their sovereignty on this issue, I believe, but it is almost impossible to do so unless there is a large majority of countries in such an organisation that say: that is what we have to agree on. Is that a picture?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u95	I don't know the numbers because it's not under my ministry. I can check with IenW for you, but I do not know whether this will work during this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u96	I would actually like to give the Minister the opportunity to answer the rest of the questions as well. The Minister still needs to answer further questions on airspace and on state liability.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u97	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u98	Mr. Sjoerdsma, I see you standing by the interrupting microphone, but the minister is still at hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u99	I finished the chapter on airspace. I moved on to the state's liability.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u100	Well, then you've been paying attention, Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u101	I'll do my best, Madam President. This is really a frustration for me. It is a very great frustration for me to see it was also just recited that an American drone is being shot by Iran in the Persian Gulf. It happens at night. And then when you look on flight radar the next morning, you see that there is no difference in the flight movements by the day before. Zero! While the threat may be very large, if you can see how drones can be shot out of the sky. Then my question here, not only for ICAO, but also here, for the European Union, for EASA, is that we should not give EASA, the European Aviation Authority, the authority to say: 'Dear airlines, you simply cannot fly above this anymore'? Is that the commitment of the Netherlands? Because I think that would be new, and I think it would be good after five years in which nothing seems to have been learned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u102	For this, I really need to speak with Mr van IenW, because this also raises the question of how the relations between different countries are, and I do not have that overview.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u103	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u104	I would be happy to return to both questions in writing, but it will take a few minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u105	Well, that's the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u106	Mr. Chairman. That would be nice, because I think this commitment would be justified after five years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u107	Clear. The Minister will return to that in writing. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u108	The state's liability. Both Mr Van Ojik and Mr Van Nispen asked why, apart from Australia and the Netherlands, no other countries have joined our state liability proceedings. We have offered this opportunity. Moreover, Ukraine itself has initiated a liability procedure, another but a liability procedure. We have offered this opportunity, and I never think it is up to me to say what their considerations are for another country. They have to answer to their parliament themselves, but the offer is open. Mrs Van der Graaf asked about the procedure initiated by next of kin at the Human Rights Court in Strasbourg, in which we indicated that we were intervening, or that we were making it public. This is not done by us, because it is not the way in which proceedings are conducted at the Human Rights Court. They make it public themselves at the time they found it appropriate. We cannot break this procedure. I have already answered the questions about Russia in the interruptions...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u109	Can I ask a more specific question about that? Will the Dutch commitment in response to the Russian reaction be shared with the next of kin in advance? Or does the government keep that to itself and should the next of kin wait until the Court has published it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u110	The latter is the case. I understood that you asked if the Dutch Government could make that known in advance. We cannot do that because it violates the procedure before the Court. The Court shall make that known at the time of their decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u111	Has the government also consulted the next of kin before sending a response to the Court in the proceedings? Or are the next of kin really just...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u112	I'd like to check that out, because I don't know that procedure by heart. We have a lot of discussions, but your question is whether we have any consultations on this procedure. I'll come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u113	In the second term or in another way?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u114	I hope in second term. I'll have to check it out. Then I come to the questions that have been asked about Malaysia. I spoke to the Malaysian Minister Saifuddin in New York together with the other ministers from the JIT countries. Moreover, after the statements made by Prime Minister Mahathir, who led to a lot of negative reactions, I called him and indicated that this was really bad for the next of kin. The Prime Minister also spoke with Malaysian Prime Minister Mahathir in New York. Malaysia has confirmed its support to the JIT on these occasions. Cooperation in the JIT is still going well at the moment. Mr. Chairman. With this I hope to have answered the questions I have been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u115	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u116	It's not entirely clear to me. Perhaps it has escaped me: the talks with Russia on state liability which the Minister announced a while ago. Is that trial still going on or is it dead in front of the closet?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u117	It's running.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u118	Thank you. Then we have now reached the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Van Dam on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u119	Mr. Chairman. I thank the ministers for their answers. In the second term, I will concentrate on that further fact-finding. I have heard Minister Blok say that it will not be an easy task. But, yes, all life consists of all kinds of tasks that are not easy, but can be accomplished. That's why the next motion. The motion has actually been signed by all the political groups present, except those of the PVV. But I understand that there is a positive basic attitude there. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas further fact-finding is necessary in the context of clarity regarding the closure of airspace above and around eastern Ukraine;]] [[calls on the Government to identify and inform the Court of Justice of options for a more complete investigation of the facts,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Dam, Mr Van Nispen, Mr Van der Graaf, Mr Van Ojik, Mr Van Wijngaarden, Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Ploumen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33997-145]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u120	Mr President, thank you. Thanks to the rulers. After this first round in the debate, I assume that the Minister of Foreign Affairs, after consulting the JIT and the Public Prosecutor and at an appropriate time, in contact with the Russian Federation, will once again convey the Dutch displeasure to the highest political level. I also assume that this will not take too long. I have once again read the answers in Question Time, and I noticed that the impression was created that there was very intensive political contact on this issue. In fact, it appears that so far it has been limited to summoning the defendant. As far as my group is concerned, this must be restored. Mr. Chairman. I have a motion on the issue of airspace. I understand that the Foreign Minister says that that is not his portfolio immediately. However, I am submitting the motion now, because that is a good time, given that the Netherlands has been given a seat in the ICAO Council. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Security Research Council recommended that ICAO should take a greater lead in improving the safety of flight routes over conflict areas;]] [[considers that the current practice, which leaves decisions to individual countries and airlines, is too dangerous and non-binding;]] [[noting that the Netherlands has a seat in the UN ICAO aviation organisation over the next three years;]] [[calls on the Government to work within the ICAO UN Aviation Organisation to ensure better security of flight routes over conflict zones and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Van Ojik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33997-146]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u121	Mr. Chairman. I think this cabinet needs little or no encouragement to commit itself to the next of kin of the MH17 and the quest for justice. As Mr Van Dam said, it is not an easy task, but all life consists of tasks that are not easy, and this is one of them. If this debate shows one thing, it is that our disappointment about this prisoner exchange is great, including a lot of frustration. But I think our will to come to justice is many times greater. I can only wish the Cabinet every success in the search for justice. I agree with the concerns about the deployment of civil aviation companies and their progress. We have discussed this before. I did not just interrupt the question of what the Minister of IenW thinks. Actually, I'm still curious about that. But it cannot be that airlines continue to muddle on that point. What happened is far too serious for that. Mr Sjoerdsma also mentioned a recent example. So that does require thought, also on the side of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u122	Thank you, Mr. Van Wijngaarden. I now give the floor to Mr Sjoerdsma on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u123	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank both directors for their reply. The MH17 issue calls for determination and optimism as some kind of moral duty. Optimism that we can achieve something in the face of great setbacks that many people might say in advance: that seems unlikely to me. Mr. Chairman. I say that because I end this debate with three great frustrations. The first is that there are no guarantees that Ukraine will not extradite suspects again, either to Russia or to other countries. And that's painful and annoying. This has to do not only with the fact that it is not in a treaty, but also with priorities. The second great frustration is that Russia has not been questioned at political level on what has happened here. I had a strong impression that was the intention. I wonder why that didn't happen now. My third frustration is that nothing has been learned in civil aviation. That is also why I will wholeheartedly support Mr Van Dam's motion, but also why I believe that we should ensure, together with my colleague in the field of civil aviation, that we reopen this discussion. We've talked about it for five years, we've tried five years of everything, but now it's really time for serious action. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u124	Thank you, Mr. Sjoerdsma. I now give the floor to Mrs Ploumen on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u125	Thank you, Mr President. I thank the Cabinet and all those who are engaged in the search for justice and the desire to allow justice to take place. Mr. Chairman. I echo Mr Van Ojik's call on civil aviation. We will support his proposal. I also echo Mr Sjoerdsma's frustration at the progress and level of contacts with the Russian Federation after the exchange of prisoners. I would like to ask Minister Blok once again to give us an idea of why we have only been in contact at the level of the Russian Charger, and not at the level of the Foreign Minister or at the highest level, because there would certainly be opportunities for that. That is certainly the impression given not only to me but also to colleagues. So I would like to have a further explanation of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u126	Thank you, Mrs Ploumen. I now give the floor to Mr Van Nispen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u127	Mr. Chairman. I share the view that this must be about truth and justice, and that we must act with determination and unity. I am not a pessimist, but I am, in part, really concerned about Russia's lack of cooperation in the criminal proceedings, the confusion that has repeatedly been sown by the Prime Minister of Malaysia and the fact that Ukraine has given an important witness to Russia. I too do not think it right to understand that Russia has not yet been addressed at the highest political level. I also had the impression that the Minister was suggesting different things very recently in Question Time and that he was planning to do so in different ways. That seems to be something else today. So I'm very concerned, but it doesn't make us any less determined. It does require constant sharpness, bearing in mind the ultimate goal. Let me conclude positively. The step that is going to be taken tonight is that further fact-finding will have to take place in Ukraine and the non-closure of airspace. The proposal of the CDA and the SP has now been broadly signed. That seems to me to be a good thing and I consider it very important in the light of a possible liability in the future. That's gonna have to prove it. But above all, it is very important, I say that Mr Van Dam is following because this must not happen again. All this is in the interests of security, truth finding and justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u128	Thank you, Mr. Van Nispen. I now give the floor to Mr De Roon on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u129	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Dam and Mr Van Nispen's motion naturally has my sympathy for further research into how Ukraine can be made public. I think that's possible, regardless of whether it's left, right, upper or lower. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the position of the Security Research Council;]] [[Whereas there was reason and also the possibility for Ukraine to close its airspace above eastern Ukraine for passenger flights prior to the time when flight MH17 was shot down;]] [[calls on the Government to take steps to make Ukraine state-owned,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Roon. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33997-147]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u130	Then to the Tsemach case: did Ukraine violate Resolution 2166 by handing that man over to Russia? The Minister says no, but I say yes. That's what I'm doing on the basis of the following. 2166 contains a rule: everyone must cooperate in that criminal investigation. So first the question arises as to whether that rule has been violated. If the answer is yes, then the question arises as to whether the person who violated that rule is to blame. Can you blame him for that? Are there perhaps mitigating or justifying circumstances? But that question doesn't come until after. That is why I have tabled this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to declare that Ukraine has violated UN Security Council Resolution 2166 by handing over Tsemach to Russia,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Roon. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33997-148]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u131	I have an enlightening question about the first motion. We, too, have always asked questions about possible liability and further investigation, which we believe should take place. But if I heard correctly, the motion was formulated in such a way that steps should be taken towards liability. Does Mr De Roon think that this could also be further research in order to obtain evidence to that effect? Or are those the formal steps required in the procedure for taking responsibility?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u132	That could be anything you call it, yes. Mr. Chairman. If I may, I have a very brief question for the Foreign Minister. The Prime Minister is going to Australia next week to talk about MH17 among other things. That is even at the top of the agenda. My question is: what can the Minister say here about the Prime Minister's commitment to those talks in Australia about MH17? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u133	Still a bit along the lines of what my colleague Van Nispen asks. I know Mr. De Roon as a solid lawyer. I think the question is whether you should hold someone liable for a prior investigation into the facts of the situation. So I've lost Mr. De Roon. You also support the investigation of the facts, although your name is not included in that motion, but you are sympathetic to it. But you are also immediately making the move to "and let's assume responsibility" immediately. What I have difficulty with is that we, as the Netherlands in particular, I am extremely proud to have held Russia liable only when the fact-finding was finished and when that was hard. What you are doing, I simply find the substance to be the wrong steps and some kind of objective reasoning, which you will ultimately not be able to understand in this whole investigation. Please respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u134	Then I think that Mr Van Dam is wrong about my motion and what I have said about it. Because, of course, you have to look into the matter thoroughly in order to make it public. I have already said that I think that this is possible in the end and that there are also a lot of indications that point towards state liability. So I'm going a little further than your motion, because it says, "Go see what's possible." I'm saying you definitely need to do research, and I think it's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u135	Mr Van Dam, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u136	I think you're doing it differently. Let me run it against criminal law; we both know how that works. You're actually saying, go first and see what kind of punishment you might impose on this suspect, and then we'll go back and see if he did it and what the facts are like. I think it makes us vulnerable when we do it that way, because until now we have done it exactly the way it should in a rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u137	Then Mr Van Dam still misunderstands. I also say that you have to take steps, and I hope, in the end, that is what I expect too, that those steps can lead to state liability. If that's the case, we'll talk about it again later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u138	Thank you, Mr. De Roon. Finally, Mrs Van der Graaf, on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u139	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll be brief. The Christian Union thanks the rulers for their response in the first term to the questions asked from the Chamber and the concerns underlying them. It remains a quest for truth and justice. The Christian Union believes that this government is motivated to further develop that search. We have no doubt about that. Like my fellow Members, we were also under the assumption that the General Assembly would have entered into talks with Russia. I would like to take this opportunity to urge the government to find the right time to address the Russians on the exchange that has taken place. I wish the government, as well as the people of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the JIT, every success in the preparations to be able to actually start the process at the beginning of next year. I'll leave it at that. Thank you. I await the response to my question about the European Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u140	Thank you, Mrs Van der Graaf. Four motions have been tabled and some questions have been asked. I'll see if there's any need for a brief suspension. That is not the case. The ministers can answer right away. I now give the floor to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u141	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, the motion in part No. 145 by Mr Van Dam and a large number of others. This motion calls on the Government to consider the options available for a more complete investigation of the facts and to inform the Court of Justice accordingly. I indicated in my first term that if you want to do such a fact-finding work properly, you need not only cooperation from Ukraine but also from the Russian Federation, especially about what happened in airspace. But I want to work for that. That is also what the motion calls for, so I shall leave this motion to the House to decide. Mr Van Ojik once again asked, because it was not possible at the UN General Assembly to speak to the Russian Minister, whether I will do so after consultation with the Public Prosecutor. Yes, I will. He also served the motion in part No. 146, which calls on the Government to work within the UN ICAO to ensure better security of flight routes over conflict zones, and to inform the Court thereof. I would ask Mr Van Ojik to hold this motion. I had already promised him that I would discuss with my colleague at IenW his other question, whether there is anything more known about relations, both worldwide and within Europe. As this relates to her area, I think it is only right that I should include her opinion in this motion. I said "probably," but I would therefore request that the motion be held until at least the cabinet has been able to respond in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u142	I understand. I'm willing to do that, but I don't suppose that's gonna take very long.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u143	That's right. I'm speaking for someone else now, too, but I'm assuming so, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u144	I assume that the Minister will then endeavour to send that reply, or at least the opinion on this motion, to the Chamber within a week. At least I'll hold the motion for a while. It's got to be possible, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u145	I think so, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u146	Yeah? Then I'll hold her, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u147	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u148	Then I come to Mr De Roon's motions. The first motion, in part No. 147, calls on the Government to make Ukraine state-appointed. We have also indicated in previous debates that the government has no information to support this, so I must advise against this motion. Mr De Roon's second motion, No. 148 calls on the Government to declare that Ukraine has violated UN Security Council Resolution 2166 by handing over Tsemach to Russia. I have already indicated that this was a situation of coercion and that I do not therefore agree with this statement. So I'm not suggesting this motion. Mr De Roon asked what the mp on MH17 will discuss with Australia. As Mr De Roon knows, contacts with Australia are very good. Last week I myself spoke extensively with fellow Minister Payne, along with all the other JIT ministers. The mp will also discuss the progress of the investigation and procedures towards Russia with the other JIT countries with its fellow mp from Australia. Mrs Van der Graaf did indeed have another answer to the question of whether consultation with survivors will take place when preparing for the contribution of the Dutch State to the European Court of Human Rights. There will be consultations with the lawyers of the next of kin. Mr President, I hope that I have commented on all the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u149	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-28.u150	I would like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Minister for Justice and Security, the MPs, the people in the public gallery, the people who have followed this debate in a different way and the staff. We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday.
