ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u1	The next item is the debate on a jihad lecture by Turkey in the Netherlands. I would like to welcome the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. I miss the Secretary of State. Where is he? Oh, he's coming in now. Welcome. I give the floor to Mr De Graaf as the first speaker. He speaks for the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today is Valentine's Day. Saint Valentin was beheaded 1,749 years ago because he preached love and released Christians in Rome. Valentine's Day is also the day when many of my peers, the 50-year-olds, first became acquainted with the existence of Islam and, above all, with the cross-border influence of Islamic law, Sharia. Mr President, first of all, let me give you a brief introduction. Today is also the 30th anniversary of the fatwa, the death sentence, that ayatollah Khomeini of Iran sent out towards Salman Rushdie. Since Valentine's Day 1989 Rushdie no longer lives in freedom, he always has to look over his shoulder when he goes out on the street and is protected. Those who think that the rules of Islam, the Sharia, only affect Muslims, are thoroughly wrong. Paul Witteman and former CDA Minister Hans van den Broek will remember Rudi Carrell's 1987 panties affair. From 2001 there is also an example: the canceled opera Aïsha in Amsterdam, because it is too insulting for Islam. We also know, of course, the Danish cartoon crisis, the attacks by Al-Qaeda and IS, the infiltration from Islamic networks and states into the administration in Western Europe. We talked about mosque funding from strict-Islamic countries, threats to, among other things, my party leader. The list is endless, Chairman. But there's always one constant in the whole thing. This is because our open, democratic and tolerant society is always opposed to totalitarian, undemocratic and intolerant Islam. Why does that happen, I wonder? Right away, the answer. It happens just because the threat of death from Islam is sufficient to force the West to adapt and therefore a little more surrender. Islam lives on death and also kills human life. Today's subject has everything to do with that. Turkey's influence, triggered by a jihad sermon in Hoorn, about a year ago, but also because of the fact that Mr Kuzu of party DENK a number of MPs with, among other things, a Turkish passport, also a year ago, betrayed his bosses in Ankara and also because of the establishment of Turkish weekend schools in our country. I'll try to explain what's going on. It starts with President Erdogan of Turkey. He wants a great Turkey, which is completely Islamicized. To achieve this, he does not want criticism, of course, but support from abroad. Well, that could help, of course. The more Turkish and the more Islamic Western countries are, the less resistance there will be towards his goal. That's the basis of the story. That influence goes roughly through four lines. It runs through the Islamic influence, through the social organisation, through education and through administrative influence. I smell an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u3	Let me make a point of order. I notice that parliamentarians De Graaf is Mr Kuzu's traitor when betraying fellow chamber members to his boss in Ankara. I take offense at that. That's what he just said, and I wish he'd take those words back.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u4	Play for "traitor"? No. Yeah, you might be able to take it that way. Mr Azarkan of DENK may take this view in this way. But it's what literally happened. If you go against a government channel in Turkey in a devious manner, you will report five of our colleagues. That was in a transferable sense, but it did happen. If you report it, what else should I call it? Shall I call it "snitching"? It's snitching.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u5	We had a debate last week in which Mr Öztürk suggested in the newspaper that Mr De Graaf was suspected of fraud. Mr De Graaf's suggestion is that Mr Kuzu has bosses in Turkey. Mr Kuzu is a parliamentarians of this country. He was elected by citizens in this country. I find it really unbelievable and I find it offensive that Mr De Graaf should say this and that the President should let this be said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u6	No, Mr. Azarkan, you can't bring in the previous debate. I chaired it myself. Everything's on camera. This applies to everything that both Mr Öztürk and Mr De Graaf have said. We talked about that. Now Mr De Graaf has made his contribution. That's what you're criticizing. You said that. I suggest that Mr De Graaf move on now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u7	Okay, I'm gonna do that. Mr. Chairman. Firstly, I mentioned four lines. The first line is via Diyanet, the Turkish Directorate for Islamic Affairs, reporting under Erdogan. Diyanet has more than 150 mosques in the Netherlands and the imams and many of the sermons are delivered by Ankara every week. The imams are replaced every three years to minimize the assimilation risk of the imams and thus also of the, transferable, herd. Milli Görüs, Süleymanci and also the competing Fethullah Gülen do so. Whether or not competitive, I said, but with the same purpose and result: Islamization of the Netherlands. Then there are the Turkish workers' associations, which are not all Islamic. That's what I'm saying. But next to the mosques, they maintain the fine-mashed Turkish social fabric in the Netherlands. Third, there are Turkish Islamic schools for regular education and Turkish boarding schools. Now there are Turkish weekend schools for non-regular education, but they are funded by the Turkish government for the purpose of reading this in the letter.......................................................................................................................................................................................... In this way, the herd stays very well with the Islamic-Turkish lesson, through those three lines.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u8	Before you continue, Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u9	Mr. De Graaf is very straying. That is a huge extension to everything. He is now a specialist in Islam and everything in it. The next item is the sermon, and I note the following. The mayor writes that with a team of experts, consisting of specialists from the Public Prosecutor's Office, the police, the Security House and the Municipality of Hoorn, he has listened to the recording with an arabist and an Islamologist. The conclusion is clear: this is not a war speech. In addition, the mayor says: "I have spoken extensively with the people of the mosque in recent days and see a government that is open, seeking the connection and is really part of this society." So I do not know what Mr De Graaf is talking about: there is no talk of war at all. Does Mr. De Graaf now believe the mayor with a team of specialists or does he have his own truth?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u10	Part two of Mr Azarkan's comment is not really relevant, because that is not about the sermon itself. That's more about how the mosque says to stand in the debate or in society. So we don't have to talk about that. You can have a whole semantic discussion about the first part. Indeed, a team of people called Mr Azarkan "specialists" has been working on it. Those who say, "It is not a jihad sermon." Yet there are also people who say: it is still a jihad sermon. In any case, there are elements to be discovered that people who have listened to that sermon could regard as part of the call to jihad or at least encourage that direction of thought. We asked for a debate on this at the time. That debate has been extended. That is the debate we are having and so I shall name it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u11	I do not know which side Mr De Graaf is squirming or talking to, but I note something very simple, namely that a mayor, who has been appointed by the King and who deals with security, says: I take what is happening seriously, and so I am going to talk to that board. That's perfectly normal. He is looking for all kinds of specialists, people who know the language, perhaps even more than Mr De Graaf, although he is a connoisseur in the field of Islam; he could also be involved. The mayor concludes that there is no question of a war speech. So I do not understand very well why Mr De Graaf undermines the position of this mayor and of all those specialists and thinks he knows better. Mr President, on this basis we cannot have a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u12	Mr President, I have to say that Mr Azarkan has literally not listened to a word of my reply, because I have said something completely different. I understand that DENK wants to put another frame towards the PVV and towards De Graaf. That's all nice for the movie again, but I answered. I'm not going to repeat the answer either, because I was clear. If you do not listen then it is a choice of your own.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u13	No, no, no. I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u14	Yeah, I think that's a really good idea, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u15	No, Mr. Azarkan, I suggest Mr. De Graaf proceed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u16	Then I'll stand, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u17	You're welcome to stand forever.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u18	Finally, the infiltration into governance and politics. In 2017 Erdogan already had 70 people in the Netherlands, 70 Turkish people in the Netherlands, trained to go into politics here. I think that's a big deal. But I am also referring to Mr Azarkan's colleague, Mr Kuzu, who is still in our memory. I told you he snitched on five of our colleagues in that newspaper because those colleagues recognised the Armenian genocide as genocide committed by the Turks. Threats and insecurity became part of these colleagues. I think that's outrageous. Kuzu also said last summer that Dutch people who don't like multicultural society should get the hell out of the Netherlands. Meanwhile, he asks for a debate about the fact that someone has thought that Dutch people are suspicious of Islamic foreigners in our government and municipal government. How would that happen after that kind of comment? As far as I'm concerned, he's gonna figure it out tonight with his charade. Mr. Chairman. The relationship between Erdogans Turkey and the Netherlands is not reciprocal. The Netherlands pays very often, but Erdogan determines very often. He, Erdogan therefore, calls the Dutch government "leftovers of Nazism" and has repeatedly called the Netherlands "a fascist country." Never there were excuses, but our foreign minister, our VVD minister, went to Ankara to have tea after all the insults. Mr. Chairman. An old Turkish proverb says: "Turkey has no friends" or "the Turkish people have no friends." Erdogan is doing everything in his power to live up to that proverb and the Turkish people of the Netherlands support it. Two consecutive elections voted more than three quarters of the voting Turks in the Netherlands on Erdogan. Three quarters, Chairman! We do not just have "a problem" but a real problem with Turkey. And problems require a solution. That's why we were chosen here. But what does this cabinet do? It reacts apatically, with texts such as: unfortunately, we cannot do anything about foreign mosque financing. Or, unfortunately, there's nothing we can do about these weekend schools. Or: it makes me uncomfortable. In Ankara they laugh at this kind of lyrics. The cabinet is Erdogan's toy ball, soft clay, formed wildly by Turkish hands. That is not what we need in the Netherlands. It is true that many Dutch people feel very uncomfortable about this Islamization and Turkish influence in the Netherlands. The cabinet has to do something about that. It has to say: to here and no further. We need leaders to prevent the Turkish undermining in the Netherlands from continuing, leaders to reduce Turkey's influence rather than accepting and facilitating it patiently. I therefore call on both ministers to come up with urgent legislation to stop this process of undermining. Don't give Erdogan and Islam any more space. Make sure that weekend schools are banned. And dismantle Diyanet and all other Turkish Islamist foundations. Close the mosques and the Islamic schools. Of course, I want a response to my input later, but above all I demand rapid and effective action. I'm almost done, Mr. Chairman. It's two more lines.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u19	Yes. I also have a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u20	Finally. Has the Netherlands become more fun, cozy or tolerant since Valentine's Day in 1989? No. The Netherlands is still equally tolerant, but a lot less cozy. But it's very tolerant to a country that doesn't want friends. It's time we traded our tolerance for realism, for more PVV. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u21	Before I give you the floor, Mr Segers, I have one more question for you, Mr De Graaf. There is uncertainty as to whether you used the word "land treason." I'll let the Acts again...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u22	I didn't use "treason." Definitely not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u23	Okay. Then it's obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u24	I think that's kind of a tough one, actually.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u25	Yeah, I just heard. But I'll check it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u26	No, I certainly didn't use that word, Mr. Chairman. I wouldn't dare.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u27	Okay. Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u28	Mr De Graaf says that the cabinet cannot or does not want to do anything about foreign financing. Where did he read that? What does that claim go back to?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u29	I do not know whether Mr Segers of the week has read the newspapers. I get it. Mr Segers was, of course, very busy this week with the conference of the Christian Union and with my fingerwatching without being present himself last week. Okay, but that aside. In the newspaper the week has literally stated that we have little influence on that influence, one time it is mosque financing and the next time there is again the next problem, the weekend schools are able to do so. I believe that Tuesday, two days ago, a letter also came. That's a five-page letter. The VVD called it "a breakthrough." Well, I haven't seen that breakthrough in dealing with mosque funding from what the Christian Union calls "unfree countries" because it doesn't dare call it "Islamic countries." I read that letter. It's really bullshit. You really have to do your best to discover some logical line that leads to a certain approach. It's just not in there. It's really a bullshit letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u30	I am a little surprised that Mr De Graaf calls for legislation, whereas that letter announces legislation. It cannot be both true: that the letter is nothing at all, is nothing at all, and that it does what Mr De Graaf wants. He's served at his beck and call.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u31	Well, I'm certainly not being served at my beck and call, because this cabinet is master in pushing forward problems, especially when it comes to integration and assimilation. Every time an investigation is done and then another investigation comes about, and then another investigation comes about. And at the end, legislation will be announced. At the burglary debacle, it was exactly the same. For a year and a half we have been bombarded with letters, in which every time it is announced that something is coming. Now we have received a letter a while ago stating that the new policy should become effective by June 2020, I believe. Well, that's with integration. That's what we're gonna talk about next week in an AO. But every time it's: something's gonna happen, something's gonna happen. But I want something to happen now. Action could have been taken much sooner, much faster. Emergency legislation can also be used once. It doesn't have to be put on the long track every time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u32	It's true it takes a very long time. I started working on that foreign financing about six years ago. I have always encouraged legislation. Now comes the announcement that it will come to legislation. I'd say pick out the good enemies, the good opponents. You can only say: it has to be fast, I want it to be speeded up. I can understand that. But you cannot call for legislation and then address a government that is going to come up with legislation. That's very strange.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u33	Mr Segers may have started six years ago, but then we, as PVV, had been working for about ten years, or a little shorter, but at least for years now, to denounce that problem. The Christian Union got in there late, but it got in. Better late than never, I must say to Mr Segers, through the President. It is true that legislation is being announced, but I think it is all too slow and too slow.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u34	I believe that Mr Segers' motions in this area were the first to be adopted in this House a number of years ago. Following on from the question just now, does Mr De Graaf really say that the cabinet is not doing anything, that nothing is happening? Or does he say that legislation has been announced, but we are not fast enough? Which one is he saying?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u35	I just made myself clear, didn't I? I think the cabinet is doing nothing for too long and then announcing for too long that something might be coming. It was indeed a motion by Mr Segers, which is true, after his party rejected dozens of motions from the PVV in the same area.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u36	I think Mr De Graaf said at first that nothing is happening. I am glad that after interruptions he indicates that things are indeed happening, but that his group would like to see it happen more quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u37	Until there's something down there, nothing's gonna happen. Isn't that right? We've been seeing that for years, haven't we? We see this in other areas too, and I have explained this in detail. As I said, something may happen, but again, I do not want to be concerned with a letter stating that something will happen in the future. I've seen that too many times, and then nothing happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u38	I now turn to Mr Paternotte, on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u39	Thank you, Madam President. Let me begin by saying something binding: I am speaking today on behalf of the Labour Party. If my voice sounds a bit nasal, that's true, but I hope you don't resent it. As far as we are concerned, this debate is about the increasing influence of the Turkish government in the Netherlands, on Dutch people of Turkish origin. The attack by the state-minded Sabah newspaper on Dutch MPs, because of their vote in the Dutch parliament, is an example, as is the arrival of weekend schools that should give Turkish youngsters a stronger bond with the Turkish homeland. Or Turkish Dutch who have unsolicited and have never shared their address, get political calls on the mat. Or parents who get pressured to take their kid out of school. And the habit of moving Turkish election campaigns to the Netherlands. Let me start with Sabah's attack on Dutch House of Representatives, because it is not for me and 144 colleagues to imagine what you get when you are called "traitor" by a state-owned Turkish newspaper and what kind of message that gives to family and acquaintances. It is unacceptable for MPs with Turkish backgrounds to be attacked in this way. Our President made that very clear at the time. I have the following question to the Foreign Minister: at the time there were no diplomatic ties, but they have now been brought back to normal. Since then, like the President of the Chamber, has he made it clear to the Turkish Government that this intimidation is unacceptable? If so, I'd like to hear the answer. If not, I'd like to know if that's going to happen. First of all, the weekend schools, a project announced by President Erdogan at a rally in Sarajevo. It is aimed at Turkish-Dutch children, to strengthen their bond with the Turkish homeland and to convey religion and culture. As far as we are concerned, it is a huge step backwards, because Turkey is increasingly moving away from a particular democracy to an intolerable dictatorship, with 80,000 suspects in prison who do not get a trial, 150,000 officials and soldiers who have been dismissed, increasingly pressure on newspapers, journalists and NGOs, who have less and less freedom of assembly and freedom of expression. A culture of fear. The bond with that country needs to be strengthened with the weekend schools. That's not helping these kids. Their future lies in the Netherlands. A dictator who regards them as a subject gets in the way of their freedom. That's why D66 thinks that we should be on top of this project, to make sure that the weekend schools are not stages for intolerance, which gets in the way of participation in Dutch society. It is good that both ministers have already put pressure on openness about this project, that we know what money goes where, so that parents also know who pays for the schools. It is also good that the teaching materials become public. My question to the Ministers is when this is going to happen. It is good that the Turkish Government has promised maximum transparency. We say: let us also fulfill that promise, by setting up committees as soon as possible, or by finding another form, of people who are going to visit these schools to see what is happening. Let the doors be open. Then we know what is happening. Do the Ministers also consider that maximum transparency means that the doors are open, including for monitoring and visitation? Are they prepared to find a form for this? For example, we are thinking of a form of peer review, such as between and within school boards in many municipalities, especially in large cities, is already common practice. Are they willing to discuss this with the municipalities where the weekend schools come? As I said in general consultation, sending the Education Inspectorate along would be the easiest thing to do. Eventually, her job is to guarantee the core goals of Dutch education, exactly why it is going on here, so that children do not learn something on Fridays and learn it off on Saturdays at the weekend school. I am thinking, for example, of the history lesson. This cannot be done now, because the tasks of the inspection must be carried out entirely within the legal framework. The Minister is going to explore. Could the outcome of that exploration also be that it would be good to extend the tasks of the inspection in this respect?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u40	I have a question about the role of the inspection, because it deals with funded education and checks on the basis of robustness requirements, i.e. legal requirements. Weekend schools do not have funded education and there are no legal requirements. It is therefore difficult to give the inspection a role. On what basis can the inspection monitor?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u41	That's what I'm saying: the inspection can't do that. What the inspection does now has to take place within the legal framework, which is indeed fully focused on funded education. But it would be easy, of course, because the inspection is equipped with a supervisory task and is concerned with ensuring the core goals of Dutch education, which I would also like to see with regard to these Turkish weekend schools. But indeed, the inspection cannot. That's why I call it. For this, the law should be amended. The exploration focuses on what should then be taken for action. With regard to the foreign financing of mosques, for example, this will lead to a legislative amendment. That's what you just named yourself. In the end, this could be the case. My question is whether this could be a result, but it is not possible at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u42	At the same time, we have received a letter from the cabinet seeking a broad exploration of informal education. Wouldn't it be wiser to wait and take that step first? It would be a completely different role for the inspection. I understand the tension. I understand that there are concerns, especially in relation to what has happened in Turkey and to the influence that is being exerted here. These concerns also live with the Christian Union Group. At the same time, the inspection has a statutory task for funded education. I find it a complicated task to combine this task with monitoring informal forms of education and training. Would it not therefore be wiser to wait for the broad exploration and see if new steps should be taken afterwards?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u43	That depends on how you mean the question. Are you asking if it wouldn't be wiser to wait for the reconnaissance before we order the inspection? Then I'll say yes, because the inspection can't do it right now. We should therefore first conclude that it is indeed best to give the inspection this task and then the law should be amended. That could be the outcome of that reconnaissance. But if your question is whether it is wiser to wait for what happens at the beginning of the weekend schools, then I look at the intention with which they come about: to present the connection with the homeland, to share culture and religion in a way that I simply am not comfortable with. If maximum transparency is promised, I say: let us also use it by watching, in the interests of the children. This does not, therefore, mean that the inspection could now assume that role. But that can be organized differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u44	It is nice that Turkey promises transparency and that we ask for things and they are promised, but of course none of that is going to happen; I have little faith in them. Is it not time that Erdogan apologized for calling our Dutch government remnants of the Nazi regime, that he called our country fascist and that he said that our country resembles Germany before 1939? Is it not time to normalize relations before we trust a government under his leadership in the beautiful brown eyes and on the promise that there will be transparency?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u45	I believe that with my entire speech I make it clear that I look with quite healthy distrust at the intentions that result from Turkey here in many ways in which the Turkish Government is trying to get a grip on Turkish Dutch, which I find unhealthy. That's why I'm here arguing that we should watch. If you say "maximum transparency; I have no confidence in it," I think you may find that, but let's test it. Then I hope you agree with me that we should indeed ask them to open the doors to see if that promise of transparency is being fulfilled.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u46	We have had problems in the past with ordinary Turkish schools and Turkish boarding schools. Of course, we have the Diyanet mosques. These are all forms of influence that already exist in the Netherlands from Turkey. There have often been debates here in the House of Representatives, but every time what Erdogan wanted came about in the Netherlands. You can also see in the studies that Erdogan's policy works in the Netherlands, because more and more Muslims in the Netherlands are becoming more religious, more and more Muslims wear a headscarf and more and more people lock themselves in their own circle and do a little volunteering there. We've read that in the SCP report over the past year. So that policy works. And 77% vote for that man.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u47	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u48	The question is the following. It's a salami tactic. Every time Erdogan cuts off a piece of the Netherlands. And now D66 again allows a piece of the Netherlands to be cut off.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u49	Mr. Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u50	Why does D66 do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u51	I think what you're saying is bullshit. I disagree with the PVV for two reasons. You just called again for the closure of all mosques. You have, I believe, argued in favour of cutting all diplomatic ties. You have argued that everything should be banned. These are all things that you are advocating, for which the Constitution needs to be amended. That means it's going to take a very long time. This means that we must dissolve this Chamber, that we must hold new elections and that there must be a new First Chamber. I'm in favour of doing something right now. Secondly, of course, I am not in favour of it either, because what you are doing means that of all those people who go to a mosque, who do so in a peaceful way, simply to profess their faith, a faith they have freely chosen in the Netherlands that takes away freedom of faith. Those are two reasons why I absolutely disagree with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u52	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u53	That last point is, of course, a fundamental difference of understanding that we have about how Islam works. The PVV understands that better than D66. That's why we see what happens. That is why I call on Mr Paternotte to be more active and to understand what is going on with the Netherlands. He's always pleading for integration. That's what his party does. But what's happening here is a strong segregation force that's going on here under the leadership of Erdogan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u54	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u55	It needs to be dealt with. So I call on him to be firmer and firmer. Otherwise, we'll lose the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u56	I note that Mr De Graaf of the PVV Group is calling for me to be stricter, but he has no answer to my objection that the severity he is proposing will take a lot of time, apart from the fact that it is not a good idea. So I am putting forward a concrete proposal for something that we can start with today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u57	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u58	Mr. Chairman. Minister Koolmees will explore widely whether there is more informal education in the Netherlands that undermines the value of our rule of law. We think that's very good. The question is what exactly it can lead to, but we are looking forward to the exploration with great interest. I would like to use the time I have left to ask a few more questions about the so-called jihad sermon that has just been quoted. The Islamic Foundation Netherlands prepares sermons for Diyanet mosques in the Netherlands. And sermons prepared by ISN are for use in the Netherlands. At the time, ISN promised the Minister of SZW to change the organizational structure to avoid unwanted mixing of religion and politics in the future. My question to the Minister is: has that structure changed at ISN? To what extent do these agreements stand and what does it yield? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u59	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Becker on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u60	Mr. Chairman. This land is built on doers. Fortunately, there are plenty of people, also with a different cultural background like the Turkish, who participate fully, who are proud of where their parents once came from, on the language and on the culture, but who do feel more Dutch and who often also realize that the freedom they have here, in their country of origin, had not been taken for granted. These Dutch people with a Turkish background have nothing to do with the profession that President Erdogan is constantly doing on their loyalty. They don't want to receive letters with voice advice at home. They don't want any fuss in the schoolyard about who's a Gülenist. They don't want a political message in the mosque. They do not want to have any fear of going to Turkey on holiday, because they would have said or done something that the regime might be uncomfortable. They want to be here in freedom. And rightly so. The reason we are here today is that, unfortunately, this interference from Turkey is the order of the day. In early 2018, a Turkish newspaper called a number of Dutch MPs "traitors of the motherland." In April 2018, a Turkey-dicted sermon on the jihad was proposed in a mosque in Hoorn. It was also known that UETD has prepared 70 young people to enter politics in the Netherlands. And yesterday we heard that Erdogan's weekend schools are going to be there in the Netherlands for the time being. These are examples of the so-called long arm from Turkey, which the VVD is fighting against. Especially because Erdogan's long arm finds too often an outstretched hand in the Netherlands. Because there are many people with a Turkish background who participate fully in the Netherlands, but unfortunately there is also a large group that stands face-to-face to Turkey and back to Dutch society. 80% of the Dutch with a Turkish background feel strong Turkish. A quarter doesn't feel like a Dutchman at all. Less than half speak Dutch to the children. According to Ipsos, two thirds of the Dutch with a Turkish background support Erdogan's policy. The interference from Ankara further prevents integration and leads to the import of tensions. If anything happens in Turkey, we see arguments in the Netherlands on school squares and at stations. And everyone knows the images of the people with Turkish flags on the Erasmus Bridge. When our freedoms are attacked, we are opposed. If you want to participate in the Netherlands, you are welcome. But if you don't want to join us while you benefit from our society, we won't accept it. This is certainly true if Members of Parliament are threatened after sedition on Turkish television, from whatever point of view this house is, because because of its origin they would apparently have to have a different loyalty to a motion. At the time, I was not called upon to vote in favour, but my colleague, who is just as keenly committed to the interests of all the Dutch, became so, with great consequences for her freedom of movement. Why? Purely because of her background. That's unacceptable. We have all 150 responsibilities to defend the freedom and democratic rule of law that we have built together in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u61	How does Mrs Becker judge the action of the group chairman of DENK in this matter, because that ratting out has been the trigger for the threat to those five Members of Parliament after that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u62	It really pissed me off. I didn't get it either. That's exactly why I said my last sentence as I said it. We have all 150 responsibilities to stand for this freedom and democratic rule of law in the Netherlands. We all just need to be able to do our jobs and we shouldn't suddenly have a different loyalty based on descent. So I'm critical of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u63	Thank you for that answer. But does Mrs Becker see with me the disadvantage of double nationality, because it gives the impression of double loyalty?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u64	What you are doing now is putting on a completely different subject and suggesting that anyone with a dual nationality or with a different origin would create the appearance of another interest. That's what I like about putting away an entire group. We can have this debate on double nationality another time. The VVD also believes that if people have been here for generations, they would prefer to opt for one nationality.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u65	But that is not the issue today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u66	That is not the case today. I am concerned that people's voting behaviour does not address their origins, but that they are free to vote wherever they come from.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u67	I feel the emotion with Mrs Becker about the allegations in the newspaper in Turkey. I was curious to hear what she thought about the performance of Mr De Graaf, who threatened a member of the Chamber in this house last week, who was then threatened and reported on social media by many. How do you assess this action?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u68	That's not the issue either. I'm not gonna give colleagues the room to criticize each other. We have a different debate here, and I really want to stick to that. A point of order...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u69	Mr De Graaf asked a question at first instance about Mr Kuzu. You'll allow that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u70	No. That was another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u71	Mr. Chairman. I'm asking the same question. You won't let me. You often measure with two sizes between DENK and the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u72	This is exactly what you probably need for the video of DENK. I find it disrespectful how this debate is being held with each other, and this is not the first time. I would have liked to have seen you here last week, so that you could also intervene, including to your colleague. This is not a studio Aalsmeer, this is just a parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u73	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u74	Thank you, Mr President. I was actually expecting an interruption, and perhaps I was hoping from DENK that they would join my call that we, all 150 representatives of the people, should stand up for the freedom here in this house to vote on which we want to vote, rather than be paid for on our origins. The VVD therefore fights against the unwanted influence from Turkey in the Netherlands. For example, through our proposal to counter the arrival of politicians from non-free countries for campaign activities. I ask the Ministers what is the situation with regard to the promised reconnaissance. We are also critical of the 140 mosques in the Netherlands funded by the Turkish Ministry of Faith. How is the approach to mosque financing going to ensure that the Dutch government gets more control over the Diyanet mosques? Speaking of Diyanet, this minister has promised the Chamber no longer to use Turkish-religious movements and organisations specifically as interlocutors for integration. But is it true that on 26 November, even after an earlier meeting with the Minister, his ministry did speak about integration with various Turkish organisations, including Diyanet, even about this Chamber debate? And is it also correct that other, more liberal organisations did not want to come for that reason? Because that can't be the intention. And then the weekend schools. The VVD asked the Minister earlier to oppose the arrival of these schools and, until this is possible, at least not to rely on information from Ankara, but to monitor themselves. Can I assume that through the announced exploration, the twelve weekend schools will at least be examined? The VVD wants supervision, so that banning these schools is possible. That's gotta be possible, right? Previously, we also organized surveillance for mosque interiors. When is the promised evaluation actually coming from this legislation? Maybe it'll give us some clues for intervention here. Mr. Chairman. The incidents involving Turkish influence are numerous. This is also proof of this debate today. But in the end, the question to the Minister for Integration is: are you prepared to pursue more structural policies against it, rather than having to answer every incident and every question in Parliament that there are Dutch freedoms that Turkey should use? For as far as the VVD is concerned, freedom of expression is not intended to receive Turkish ministers here for a campaign meeting for an even more unfreer regime. And freedom of association does not mean that every Turkish religious club is also a good interlocutor for integration promotion. And the freedom of education certainly does not mean that the government should look away when an organisation like Milli Görüs takes Dutch young people to a radical preacher in the context of education. It is not for nothing that the VVD asked former Minister Asscher for a counter-strategy against diaspora politics from Turkey. It is badly needed, but it is still not there despite the Azmani motion that has been adopted. That is why I am asking this Minister to get on with it. Develop a comprehensive strategy to counter this unwanted influence from Turkey and to allow people with a Turkish background to be better integrated into the Netherlands. Thus we stand before and after everyone who participates and cherishes the Dutch freedoms and turn our backs on those who undermine them. Finally, I would like to ask the Minister: when can he inform the Chamber about the possibility of including newcomers from Turkey? Also in the light of the increasing number of asylum applications from Turkey. Because as far as the VVD is concerned, where you come from, the only option in the Netherlands is to participate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u75	Thank you, Mrs Becker. I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u76	Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, we have many sermons in the Netherlands. We have synagogues, mosques and other religious prayer houses where we preach weekly. Every once in a while, we get a sermon from the president in the Chamber. In fact, we also have a Bishop in our midst. Mr. Chairman. I attend sermons regularly. They're about everyday business. They're about your own behavior, to make you aware of that. Sometimes they also concern you more about your neighbors and your neighbors, to be merciful with them. With the thousands, perhaps tens of thousands of sermons, nothing is wrong. But I have heard a number of colleagues speaking today about a war in Hoorn. A year later, we talk about this. Mr. Chairman. There's nothing wrong with that sermon. Those are not my words, but those are the words of the mayor, of the local authority and the team of experts. I quote the mayor: the conclusion of the expert team based on the text of the Friday sermon is that this is not a war speech. They do not therefore see any grounds for criminal investigations. I have shared these conclusions with the mosque board; at least they have informed me to take the advice of the expert team to heart, and I therefore share these conclusions with the Minister, who has followed this matter with interest. This was the end of the investigation. Mr. Chairman. It is a mystery to me why, if this is completed at a lower level by all those involved, a year later we are discussing it. The mayor, together with the mosque board, the city council of Hoorn and the security services, has come to the conclusion that there is no war talk at all, as a number of colleagues have suggested here. I ask the Minister if he shares this conclusion. Does he agree with us that excellent work has been done by the mayor, the mosque board and the security services? Mr. Chairman. That is clear to everyone. But that's not true when you're working at De Telegraaf and certainly not when you're in the PVV. Because that's not what a mayor thinks with a number of specialists, but there weird suspicions like "deaf-pot affair" are added. Certain parties see sufficient reason to hold a debate in the Lower House. They are wasting valuable time from the national parliament to join De Telegraaf's false accusations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u77	We are having this debate because many parties in this house are concerned about unwanted influence, unwanted interference, from Turkey. The reason many MPs are worried about this sermon is that it was a political message, written from Ankara, pronounced in a Dutch mosque. And even though there were no cases in there that the Minister could say were criminally prosecutable, the Minister did say that he thought it was a problem. He finds this because it is a political message from another country, which does not belong here in a religious environment. Does Mr Azarkan agree that this is undesirable?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u78	The test the mayor took with a number of experts is sufficient for me to establish that there is nothing going on here. And whether that means that I personally care about it or not, that's not the point. What matters is whether, within the limits of the law, we do what is acceptable, not what I have as my opinion. I'm not in this house just to defend my own views. I think people can be inspired by religious texts. And whether they're from the Vatican or from another country, I don't think that's important. What matters to me is behavior. And when I see that the mayor and experts conclude that nothing is going on here, that they have had a good conversation and that the board of that mosque is seen as an example of how you deal with each other, we can of course find all kinds of things a year later. I also heard you say it was a war speech. That's not true at all. You weren't telling the truth here at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u79	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u80	I'm sure you said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u81	I've been talking about a jihad sermon. But apart from that, we keep seeing this. That is why I am also asking Mr Azarkan, because we do not seem to be able to have a good conversation with DENK about the underlying problem of continuous Turkish unwanted interference in Dutch society. Then I ask whether Mr Azarkan is also concerned that, for example, there are political messages written in Ankara. I also ask if it would not be better if the messages here in the mosques were simply written in the Dutch context. And then he points out that it's allowed to go criminal. Yeah, but that's not my question. Doesn't he worry as the VVD about the fact that many Dutch people with a Turkish background feel more Turkish than Dutch and that this doesn't help?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u82	At DENK we don't have the narrowness that sometimes comes with the VVD, namely that you limit yourself to one loyalty. Mr President, I have also had language lessons, as perhaps you have, in my own language. I think I'm doing a pretty good job here in society. I'm doing my part. Assuming in advance that the anti-integrative......................................................................................................................................................................................... I will tell you, Mrs Becker, that DENK has tabled a motion on foreign funding of political parties. We find that undesirable. We find political interference from other countries undesirable here. We have said: don't let money go to parties, because with money you buy influence. You simply voted against that motion. You think that foreign money should go to political parties here, wherever it comes from. We are opposed to that. So you have a little bit of butter on your head.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u83	Think of your heart. It's Valentine's Day.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u84	It is Valentine's Day; thank you, Mr President. That's another nice sermon.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u85	Thank you for accepting that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u86	I believe that there will be legislation from the cabinet on foreign funding to political parties. But at least I think it is a gain that Mr Azarkan says that he does not want political interference from abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u87	Of course not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u88	Then he would have to answer my question as to whether he feels it is worrying that a political sermon, written in Ankara, should be proposed in the Netherlands: yes, I am against that too, and I think that we should all work to ensure that what is happening here in the Netherlands is much more about the Dutch context. That's what I'd like to hear him say...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u89	You made that clear, Mrs Becker.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u90	... but unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u91	I'm gonna get back to that. It's a sermon that was pronounced in Hoorn a year ago; that's right. If I understood him correctly, the following was said. "Dear Brothers, as you know, our Turkish soldiers are sacrificing our Turkish soldiers; a sermon in Hoorn "for our faith, flag and motherland, without hesitation. Sons of the land who become martyrs in their early age, proclaim the glad tidings of our Lord, "Do not tell those who are slain in the way of Allah that they are dead." Nay, they are alive, but you do not realize." Is that something that belongs in a mosque in the Netherlands? Or is that also the political influence from Turkey?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u92	Again, if the mayor has sorted this out with his experts and looked carefully at what has been said here, then it is not interesting whether I agree with the substance or not. I'm not going along with that. It looks like we've been bombing Turkey into some kind of state enemy in this house for a year or two. We see that there is disproportionately much attention from Mr Van Raak's party... I have added the number of motions and the number of times that a debate has been requested against Turkey. I'm not going along with that. I believe that our cabinet has done wisely to strengthen its ties in the economic interest. I'm out of the game of Turkey bashens here. I'm just not doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u93	My group has several Members with a Turkish background.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u94	You have more than we do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u95	More than DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u96	50% more.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u97	But they are also intimidated and threatened after actions from Turkey.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u98	We very much regret that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u99	Wait a minute, Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u100	That means that we are critical. If there is a dubious, controversial Turkish invasion in Northern Syria, which our government renounces, and in a Dutch mosque in Hoorn, words of martyrdom are spoken about "our Turkish soldiers" Dutch who were born and raised here, then we criticize it. If it is glorified that the'sons of the country', of Turkey, sacrifice their lives for the Turkish faith, the Turkish flag and the Turkish motherland, and that this is not the way of death, but the way of life, then we are critical of it. Yes, I am not asking if Mr Azarkan would like to give a theological exercise here. I'm just asking if this is what he means by unwanted political influence from abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u101	Mr Van Raak can ask six times. I'm not a theologian. I haven't been there. By the way, there is a recording in the possession of De Telegraaf, but it is not released. De Telegraaf posted the message online at 12.30 p.m. and the sermon was at 13.00 p.m., which is also quite special. I'm just not going along with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u102	In these, tapped, recordings of De Telegraaf is talked about the sweet nectar of the martyrdom of soldiers dying for faith, flag and land. However, the key point that Mr Van Raak is asking for is that this sermon is also written by the minister, possibly once a Turkish sermon for a Diyanet mosque in Turkey that has ended up in a Dutch mosque. These are texts written in Turkey and spoken in Dutch mosques. Mr Azarkan is asked whether he thinks that these lines from Turkey to a mosque in the Netherlands are desirable or undesirable. I would like to remind him that he himself, as chairman of the Association of Moroccan Dutchmen, made very clear statements about how he thinks that the Moroccan government should not direct mosques and imams in the Netherlands. He is now asked the same question when it comes to Turkish mosques. Why has he been so clear about Moroccan mosques in the past he has been very sharp and clear about this repeatedly and is he not now talking about Turkish mosques?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u103	Mr Heerma can bring up the past and make all kinds of comparisons, but let us stick to the facts. Apparently, there is a one-off sermon here which, it seems, contains problematic texts. Then there is good action. We have an institute in the Netherlands that makes the sermons for the Dutch Turkish mosques. Apparently it went wrong once, in that sense it was suggested. It's interesting that we're talking about it in this house. But let's look at the place where it has an impact: the municipality we're talking about. The mayor immediately talked to the mosque. The mosque has received him and the board has spoken to him. It has been said that if something has gone wrong, this will be sorted out with each other. That's done neatly and closed in a good way. A year later, we're still here to discuss it. I find the exemplary work of the mayor, of the board, of the local mosque. That's how you solve each other's problems. It is interesting what we think, but the question is above all what the impact is on the residents there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u104	Mr Azarkan seems to answer a question, but not the one I asked. So I'm gonna ask him again. As chairman of the Moroccan Dutch Partnership, he says: I do not want Morocco's interference in mosques here in the Netherlands. Why doesn't he say the same about interference from Turkey in mosques in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u105	There is no such interference, because for a number of years the various Friday lectures have been made here by an institute. You can start talking louder, Mr. Heerma, you can raise your voice, but that doesn't make your question any clearer. I think I answered it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u106	You do not think there is undesirable interference when such texts are spoken in a mosque. These texts have been written by the Turkish Presidency of Religious Affairs, while at the same time you have always said that you do not want any interference from abroad. That's incomprehensible. Are you saying that you will take back what you have said in the past and also want interference from Morocco? Or do you insist that what is not allowed from Morocco should be allowed from Turkey?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u107	Mr Heerma asks all kinds of half-closed questions, but I will not go along with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u108	In the past, we have noticed that it is incredibly complicated, despite what is happening in Turkey, to provoke your group colleague Kuzu even one critical word about what is happening there. Now Mr Van Raak has just read a sentence written in Turkey and pronounced in a Dutch mosque. That phrase is quite simply that suicide bombers have eternal life and that the mosque-goers should not forget it. Mr Van Raak then asks: does such a sentence belong in a Dutch mosque? I would like to give you one more chance to answer that very clearly. Does such a sentence belong in a Dutch mosque?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u109	I have stood here several times and indicated that I find it unacceptable to preach hatred in mosques, when texts are used that threaten young people, for example, to go to Syria. I said that. I strongly oppose that. I have also said that a lot of sermons that are held on Friday are about very different things. This is where it threatened to go wrong. Then the mayor performs. Then experts will be brought in. The suggestion you make that this is a war speech is not correct. That's enough for me. A local government handled that neatly. Research has been done. There's been a good talk with the mosque. The board has taken responsibility. How else does Mr Paternotte want this resolved?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u110	You're bringing in a lot of things. You keep talking about the mayor...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u111	That's the only one who knows what happened there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u112	Mr Van Raak just asked a very simple question. He reads a sentence that means that in a Dutch mosque it is said: suicide bombers have eternal life; that should not be forgotten by mosque-goers. Do you think a Dutch mosque should be like that? I'd like a yes or a no before you bring up the mayor again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u113	You're asking the same question. I state that I do not want texts to be used, whether in synagogues or in churches or mosques, which encourage others to use violence, to spread hatred and so on. I strongly oppose that. I cannot share the interpretation you give to a sentence in that context. That is why I fall back on the mayor who carried out the analysis and who is satisfied with the way in which the board handled it. You can find something of that, Mr. Paternotte, but you and I weren't there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u114	Mr Azarkan says: I see very clearly whether it can be done within the limits of the law, yes or no. If it's possible, there's no problem. In the past, in 2008, there were about forty Moroccan imams who would go to Morocco to get instruction, to be formed there. At that time, Mr Azarkan was very critical of that. Then he didn't look at the letter of the law, then he didn't see if it could be criminalized, then he said: I find it undesirable, I don't think it's desirable that there should be any influence from Morocco, from the Moroccan government, on those imams who come back to the Netherlands and keep their stories here. Does he still support that opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u115	I'm sure I'm in favour of that. In 2008 I was chairman of the Partnership Moroccan Dutch. We've been 11 years, Mr Segers. Ten years ago, you were in an unfree country convincing people to become Christians. You're doing something else by now. I support what I said. I find foreign interference unacceptable, not in politics, not in religious institutions. That is why I have always argued for an imam education in the Netherlands, but the Dutch government has closed it. We also need to see it in perspective. It's more nuanced. A number of mosques, including Moroccan-Dutch mosques, say: we have a lot of work in a certain period of time and we need help. Then you have to look sometimes... I am in favour of educating imams and other religious people in the context of the Netherlands, because they understand what people are going through here. They're the best ones to hook up. If someone is flown in fresh from another country, it's more difficult. Sometimes it's no different, because you have to choose between predestination in prayer or no prayer, and that's hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u116	The Dutch imam programme leads a somewhat quacking existence because there is little interest, because there is more interest in education from other countries, for example because of the very active role of Diyanet. Diyanet sends sermons and teaches imams and pays imams and... It is a huge stately influence on Turkish mosques. If I understand correctly, Mr Azarkan says: "I have the same opinion as in 2008. I'm against foreign influence of Dutch imams. The alternative is a Dutch imam education." There was. They're still looking for it. At the VU, for example, there is still talk about education.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u117	Very limited.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u118	So there are those possibilities. Then we can find each other and say: let us speak out against any influence, at least from countries where we have great doubts about the rule of law. We are talking, for example, about Morocco and Turkey.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u119	And Egypt, where you've been for years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u120	Certainly, in terms of the rule of law, that is very problematic. Do I understand Mr Azarkan correctly that he says: from countries with a somewhat questionable reputation when it comes to freedom and the rule of law, do I not want to influence?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u121	I think that Mr Segers has a pretty good line to take, but it is a question of negative influence. I don't mind if there are contacts at the NGO level that inspire people. Then it's about inspiration and a valuable contribution. It's not bad on balance. The same applies to financing from abroad, which many people think is bad on balance. It's not always like that. When it comes to influence, we are in favour of transparency. We want it to be visible, but we also want no consideration to be given. Once again, when it comes to financing, it is possible, but it has to meet the demands that we make with each other here in our democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u122	Finally, Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u123	Finally, Madam President. I have the feeling that Mr Azarkan is now mopping up a little bit. In 2008 he was clear. He thought that influence was undesirable. He felt it was undesirable that 40 imams went to Morocco, were formed there and then returned. Why? Because we can't see it. He didn't want that influence. That had nothing to do with what was behind it, what they heard and whether there was money behind it. No, he thought it was undesirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u124	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u125	If we hold that line, you have to be much more critical of Diyanet and then you really need to find something other than what you're defending right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u126	No, no. Mr Segers is wrong to quote from what I have said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u127	Then I'll be challenged. In my first interruption, I asked him whether he still supports his view of 2008. The answer was yes. He thought it was undesirable. Later he said: I think there should be an alternative in the Netherlands. Well, we're working on that. That has been worked on and is still under consideration. That's fine. That can be developed. We have that freedom, too. We even have educational freedom. Then we agree. It's two-and-a-half. If it is undesirable, then you really need to look much more critically at the influence of Diyanet and at dictated sermons, from Ankara or anywhere, in Turkish mosques. Then you must be much more critical than what you have been defending so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u128	I thank Mr Segers for his contribution, but I myself consider what I should or should not do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u129	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u130	I've got four and a half minutes left, I see. Mr. Chairman. It was clear to everyone that this was not a war speech, but not for De Telegraaf and not for the PVV, because they are guilty of suspicions. There was talk of a cover-up. Certain parties in this House will then see enough reason to hold a debate on this issue. This fits in with a broad view. We saw it at the PVV, by the mouth of Mr. De Graaf. He didn't mention the sermon at all, or very limited. He brought up Islam, because that is, as the PVV should be, evil. Mr. Chairman. We see the consequences of the PVV's actions and statements for mosques. How many times have I been standing here asking for a debate on violence against Islamic institutions? Islamic schools are being scrubbed. Mosques are occupied and smeared with blood. Decapitated dolls are left at mosques. There has even been a terrorist attack on a mosque in the Netherlands. That is why I would like to appeal to my colleagues to that responsibility and ask them to see it from that perspective. I did not manage to have a plenary debate on this. Mr. Chairman. It's wise to be careful what you think is true. As long as you can't, it's also wise to be careful with your reaction. Sometimes it seems as if there is panic and selective indignation. The mayor says that the mosque board is an example of an open government that seeks the connection and is part of our society. I find that difficult to reconcile with a number of claims made here. I also sincerely ask where the support was at the moment when I asked for a debate to protect those mosques. It's a few hundred incidents. Each time that was dismissed as an incident, the case that was investigated. Unfortunately, there was no support for a plenary debate. Mr. Chairman. Then there's something about the weekend schools. I find it really rather limited, if you learn the language on weekends, to see it as a form of interference and disloyality. That's not how we're in it. There are people learning Turkish, there are people learning Chinese, there are people learning salsa on weekends. I also took a look: The Netherlands owns 200 schools around the world where they learn culture and language, and "monkey, nut, cabbage, mee." Even in non-free countries, the Netherlands has schools. I spoke to an ambassador last year: there are Dutch people with a Dutch passport who have never been to the Netherlands. They come for their passports once every ten years. And as far as this goes, there's nothing wrong with a weekend school. However, it becomes problematic when you have criminal behavior, when things happen there that can't. The Minister has indicated that he will then see what he can do about it. It is too easy to say: let the inspection see. Because the inspection is not primarily about that, because it is not funded by the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u131	Mr. Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u132	I was just finishing up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u133	Oh, that's okay. Are you almost done? You've got over a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u134	Yes. We fully endorse the Minister's letter on the security of our politicians, and we regret that this was the case last year. I would like to make one comment. My colleague Öztürk was threatened here, in this house, last week. Then it went on social media, with all kinds of follow-up threats. I have received support from few colleagues for my colleague. That's what I want to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u135	Mr Azarkan says that the weekend schools only teach in Turkish language. That's not true. In this respect, you are less transparent than the Turkish government itself: language, culture, religion with the aim of strengthening ties with the homeland. You're comparing it to salsa. The big difference with salsa is that these salsa lessons are not meant to strengthen the bond with Argentina. That's the purpose of the weekend schools. Do you think it would be desirable for the Turkish Government to finance schools here designed to strengthen links with the Turkish homeland?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u136	The moment you learn the language, as I have done, and get information about the country of origin, that does not result in less integration. It doesn't lead to any less loyalty on balance. We just don't go along with that thought. In my view, both can. Mr Paternotte is actually using the argument used by the PVV: if you have two passports, you are not loyal to the Netherlands and you have to choose. That's not me. In that respect, not only on Valentine's Day, I have so much love in me that I have a lot of love for different countries, have a lot of love for the Netherlands, and sometimes also like to visit other countries. I want to learn the language of that and I am interested in the political system. Let me add, Mr Paternotte: if it means that citizens are expected to act, things that are expected to go against the interests of the Netherlands, then that is simply not possible. That's unacceptable!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u137	Mr. Azarkan is turning away from the story. He says something interesting about his love of lands. You just said that there is even Dutch education in unfree countries. You looked a little dirty at that, so you seem to think so...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u138	That is your view. I looked focused.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u139	The reason I am asking is because it has been very difficult in the past to get a different opinion on Turkey from a member of the DENK Group than a positive opinion. Let me ask you the following question about non-free countries: do you think that in the last five years freedom in Turkey has improved or deteriorated?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u140	Based on a number of statistics, that freedom seems to deteriorate, yes. But I read the Minister's letter correctly. The Minister also analysed the concept of 'unfree countries'. That's pretty problematic. The Minister has indicated that there are also about eight restrictions before you can proceed to that concept of 'unfree country'. I find it interesting, because at some point that has become the definition of Mr Segers. He introduced it once. He's lived in an unfree country for about seven years. Mrs Becker went along with that by saying: we are going to ask the Minister to draw up a definition of it, because then we can show that we are going to do it hard. But when we look at the way we stand in society, we see that we are part of a world where there are a lot of countries. There are many countries on this unfree list that make a lot of investments here in the Netherlands. I think it is special that we say that these non-free countries should not, for example, finance a mosque here, but that they should be allowed to sponsor infrastructure here or buy our bonds. How does Mr Paternotte feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u141	It's the other way around now, isn't it? You may interrupt Mr Paternotte later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u142	He's already been there. So that's problematic.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u143	Well, okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u144	You could have asked me a question. Mr Azarkan just pointed out that if he looked at the statistics, it would appear that freedom in Turkey is not increasing but deteriorating. If you know that that country, where freedom is deteriorating, pays and determines the education that Dutch children receive on weekends in those schools, do you think that those children are better off with education at those weekend schools than if they weren't there?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u145	That really depends on what's being asked back and what's going on there. I think there's nothing wrong with learning the language and culture of a country. There's something wrong with that. The suggestion that that's always wrong... Let me give you the example of myself again. I was educated in Arabic. I stand before you as a Member of this Parliament. I'm loyal to this country. You live on the basis of the belief that that is a bad balance. I'm not going along with that. I think we should look very closely at what is happening there, but with an open mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u146	I have a question about the end of Mr Azarkan's speech. He says he regrets the consternation and intimidation that took place through Turkish newspapers last year towards parliamentarians of this house who would be traitors. In this context, I wonder what he thinks of statements made on Turkish national television that parliamentarians have to justify themselves, that they cannot hide and that they must indicate which side they are on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u147	My colleague Kuzu then gave an interview, in which he did not talk about parliamentarians. My colleague Kuzu did not talk about this. That was the newspaper's interpretation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u148	During that interview it was stated that no one can hide and that everyone must indicate which side he is on. What do you think of these statements?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u149	At DENK we are in favour of transparency.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u150	I gotta tell you, it's kind of hard on my chest. There are a number of members here who have a Turkish-Dutch identity who have been intimidated in a huge way and who have gotten all kinds of things over them. I believe that Mr Azarkan said something like: we regret the fuss, but Mr Öztürk is the real victim; what happened there was the saddest. Something of self-reflection regarding the relationship between what Mr Kuzu said in an interview and what happened to a number of members of this Chamber would adorn Mr Azarkan. Let's make that statement again. Mr Kuzu says that Dutch-Turkish candidates must indicate which side they are on. He said, and I quote, 'that the recognition of the Armenian genocide is unacceptable to us and that they must therefore make it clear to those candidates which side they are on'. Who are "us" here? He said: it is unacceptable to us. Who's "us"?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u151	The Christian Union has around the recognition of the...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u152	Why don't you answer my question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u153	Mr Segers, is it allowed for me to choose my own answer? Or do you already have the answer? 'Cause then you can stand right here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u154	You're bringing up the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u155	You have butter on your head!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u156	No!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u157	I ask a simple question: who are "us"?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u158	Keep it civilized a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u159	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u160	So you can answer Mr Segers' question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u161	Sure. Mr Segers actually says: it is unacceptable for Mr Kuzu to have said this; do you think that with me? I think it's good that we take our responsibility a little more. I agree with you. I spoke to Mr Kuzu about this. The question is: is this the way to act politically in this way? We had a good discussion about that. I am surprised, however, that Mr Segers is also making this moral point. Mr Segers was on the air once... I have Mr Segers high. He and I occasionally travel together to Utrecht. Mr Segers addressed me. I felt that. He said, "Let's do politics another way." And I followed him. I listened well. A few weeks later, Mr Segers was on a broadcast at WNL where a professor said about the elected politicians of NIDA: these are our Nazis. I spoke to Mr Segers about it. I said, Mr Segers, why didn't you tell me? It's terrible that these people are getting threats, isn't it? Actually, that's the same thing you're blaming me for. You didn't have an answer to that, Mr Segers. It stayed quiet for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u162	I had a very simple question. I'm gonna make it as simple as I can. Once again, Mr Kuzu's quote: "(...) that the recognition of the Armenian genocide is unacceptable to us and that the Turkish-Dutch candidates must now make clear which side they are on." My first question is: who are "us"?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u163	I didn't give that interview, so I have no idea who Mr Kuzu means by that. I think it is right that you should ask Mr Kuzu about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u164	You have no idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u165	No, I have no idea who he means by that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u166	"It's unacceptable to us."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u167	But if you have the answer, Mr Segers... So you do have an idea. No, but you have no idea, I think. I do not know who Mr Kuzu means by that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u168	I can guess, but okay, you don't know who "us" are. "The recognition of the Armenian genocide is unacceptable to us," says Mr Kuzu. It's not clear if it's about DENK, about Moroccans, about Turks. Anyway, I'll leave that alone. My second question. "They must make clear which side they are on." Which sides are we talking about? Mr Kuzu talks about Dutch-Turkish candidates, Dutch-Turkish politicians who have to make clear which side they are on. Which sides are here?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u169	Mr Segers often tabled motions so that DENK had to choose a side. You did it yourself. In fact, Mr Segers knows that the cabinet has the same definition of the Armenian genocide as DENK. The cabinet speaks of "an issue." Yet you are forcing DENK to choose. You, together with the SGP, have made a motion, a kind of expression with "the Chamber speaks out," because you know that the cabinet is not taking over because it is problematic.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u170	Mr Azarkan says that this is about Turkish-Dutch candidates for the municipal elections. That's what he just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u171	I didn't think you heard me say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u172	That's what you just said. "They must make clear which side they are on." Who's making them do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u173	They don't have to do anything. I think it was an interview. I suggest that you ask Mr Kuzu about that. He had an intention with that. You can try it for the sixth time, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u174	I'm closing up. I note that Mr Azarkan is hiding behind a lot, but he is not aware of the effect of this ruling on Members of this Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u175	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u176	Wait a minute, Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u177	It is about Turkish-Dutch politicians, who have to make things clear. It is about Turkish-Dutch candidates for the municipal elections, who have to make things clear, who have to take sides. Mr Kuzu's side, of... I have no idea who. But they have to do everything. I see here a form of ethnic profiling, targeting people because they have a Turkish background, which has to make something clear that'something unacceptable to us'. "Our," "we," "must"; people are reduced to an identity. This leads to a form of ethnic profiling that does not do justice to people and has enormous impact in private lives, which I find really unacceptable. What I would like on the part of the DENK Group is that there is not only an internal discussion there once in a while, but that there is really open reflection on 'what have we said' and 'what has that done to people here in this Parliament and elsewhere, which has been very bad'.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u178	The Christian Union Group has tabled motions to ensure that the DENK Group has to take a particular side. The fact that Mr Segers says that this means that others do not have to, of course, is also strange.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u179	Mrs. Becker.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u180	In the integration debate we always have with each other, you would like it to be about a country where you are not opposite each other, but where you stand side by side. That is why I find it so difficult that when we ask Mr Azarkan about things that happen in the Netherlands, under very undesirable Turkish influence, he does not go into that problem, but actually comes up with a you-bake, that the Christian Union has also tabled a motion or that the VVD was once against something or that we should ask Mr Kuzu. What is his message to all those Dutch people who are often Dutch people with a Turkish background who are very worried about this, who think: what should I do with that letter from Erdogan on my doormat; I can no longer go on holiday to Turkey because I have done things here that might have been too liberal for that regime? What is the message to my fellow Member that for six months there was almost no way out, because of what happened on Turkish television, also sparked up in this house? What is his binding message about this great problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u181	I have indicated that I am underlining the Minister's letter when it comes to the freedom of politicians to do what they can do, in all freedom; that is true of everyone. I have a passer-by, because that is not the most important thing for me, when I said that not in a newspaper in Turkey, but here my colleague Öztürk was threatened: "I will hunt you down, you are mine" were the literal words. Mrs Becker, I have not heard you say that at all. That would have been a sign of sympathy, and then you would have had the right to speak. I find that sad and sad.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u182	Let it be very clear that any kind of threat...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u183	Hey.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u184	In my opinion, my group chairman, Mr Dijkhoff, said the same thing in a video, right when DENK actually used it as a reaction, because you did not distance yourself from it. That's the answer. We said immediately: any threat is unacceptable. The question I am asking today to Mr Azarkan, to DENK, is, in my view, the essence of this debate: what does DENK want to do against the unwanted Turkish influence in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u185	It's very simple. We look at the rules as we devised them. We must monitor very carefully what is happening there, as the Minister has indicated. If things happen there that cannot be accepted or that are against the law, then there is action. I think the Minister is right to point that out. It is also interesting that we are talking about Turkish weekend schools, but I think that is true for every school and every institution. I also think it is special that we should have a special debate on this. The Minister has indicated that he monitors this, but that the instruments are limited. Once again, my second message is that I do not agree that this is, on balance, bad. I'm just not going along with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u186	I don't think that every weekend school or every language lesson is funded by President Erdogan, but this is what these weekend schools are all about. We've also talked about the motives. That is why we are concerned. I never said that I think language lessons are basically wrong. I understand that people with a Turkish background still want to deal with their Turkish language, but why should President Erdogan do so? And then my question: does Mr Azarkan agree with me that this problematic interference from Turkey is currently taking place, when we look at 70 young people who are being prepared for Dutch politics by UETD, when we look at Milli Görüş, who is taking Dutch young people to a radical preacher, when we see demonstrations at stations and fights in school squares, when parents in the Netherlands are going to report each other for gülenist, when ministers want to travel to campaign for an even more unliberated Turkey? Can DENK say about all these examples, and I can go on like this: we do not want that in this free, beautiful Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u187	I wish people lived side by side in peace. The examples given by Mrs Becker are extremely undesirable when people are opposed to each other. That is what Mr Kuzu said. People should not speak to each other about what they believe or what they think. It just can't be. I would also point out that Mrs Becker must be aware that the way in which we debate here, including on elements from Turkey, contributes to this increase. We have that responsibility, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u188	I now give the floor to Mr Van Raak on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u189	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "How is that system broken with your child? By making it clear to them: everyone is equal. Muslims, Jews, Christians: all equal. As long as you don't steal, as long as you don't lie, as long as you don't do anything crazy, everyone's the same. And if your child has a Christian teacher or teacher, then they also talk about paradise. Everyone goes to paradise except those who lie or do bad things who rape people. Then, then, your child's entire processing system is destroyed. Why? Because Islam tells us the opposite and teaches us." Mr. Chairman. Maybe we should chew on these words, because it's not very clear yet. At least sheik Suhayb Salam has the floor. It is not a broadcast of the public broadcasting of Islamic State, but a lesson "how do I raise my child in the Netherlands?" of the Institute for Education & Education attached to the Foundation alFirah in Utrecht. The film is from 2015. AlFirah was a recognised learning company and had all kinds of links with universities and colleges. It provided traineeships for young people, extracurricular care and care for derailed young people. Here it is told that Muslims, Jews and Christians are not equal, that you cannot allow your child to be intimidated by being told that anyone who leads a good life can go to paradise. They say: if you live in the Netherlands and raise your child in the Netherlands, in a country of freedom and democracy, in a country of human rights and the rule of law, the entire processing system of your child will be destroyed. This sheik learns that if you want to be a good citizen in the Netherlands, you are proud of Dutch freedom and democracy, you are proud of our rule of law and you are proud of human rights, then you cannot be a good Muslim. It is something that strikes me, but that also applies to hundreds of thousands, hundreds of thousands of Muslims in the Netherlands, who are proud to live in this free democratic country, who are proud that human rights are respected here and are proud to live in a rule of law. I sometimes wonder how this kind of organisation has come to be so influential. There is also a lot of political influence. The alFirah no longer exists in this sense. There was talk of late rent, fraud, money laundering. Money came from a dubious club from Kuwait. I don't know about alFirah now, but why have these sounds become so dominant in the Netherlands? That is a very important question for me, and I also ask the Foreign Minister. I myself have noticed that a lot of these organisations have also been given a place at the table at municipalities. I've been to Amsterdam before, it's been a while since I had a political debate with SP'ers in a mosque, where we were told that as a SP'er you shouldn't criticize the Labour Party because it was a PvdA mosque. I know there are many directions in Islam, but I didn't know this one back then. We have also advanced, brought in, subsidised these organizations. We left our young people to them. Already in 2007 I received a motion in this Chamber to map out these salafistic organizations, to see what they are doing and what they are doing in this country. It took a very long time for that list to be there, namely eleven years. From the Ministry of Social Affairs it has been a very long, very hard struggle. I wonder, and I ask this new Minister why that has taken so long and what is happening with that list. We've already talked about it today. Another side of influence is, of course, influence from abroad. We were just talking about intimidation, calls for aggression against MPs, here in the Lower House, MPs with a Turkish background. We have quite a few of them in the SP, also here in the Lower House. These are very proud people, who stand up for all the Dutch in this country. We cannot accept, as a parliament and as a government, that Erdogan from Turkey is using state media propaganda to threaten and intimidate these people. So I ask the Foreign Minister what he has done. Has Erdogan been called on the mat? Have we made it clear as the Netherlands that we do not accept this? Did we say that if you do this one more time, you have a problem; you stay away from our people with your long arm? Is that made clear to Erdogan? Another point we are discussing today is a jihad sermon from a year ago in Hoorn. Also there we saw Erdogan's long arm. I have just quoted a part of the sermon: as you know, our Turkish soldiers sacrifice for our faith, flag and motherland, without hesitation. Why should a Dutch mosque in Hoorn tell religious Muslims who were born and raised here, who have their lives here and who are proud of this country, that they are Turks, that their soldiers have sacrificed themselves for their faith, flag and motherland and that that is a high form of martyrdom? This is also the case for a controversial Turkish invasion of Syria, which this minister had very serious problems with. I understand that the law has not been broken here, but both in the alFirah mosque and in this sermon we can not only look at whether hatred and violence are being preached and whether there is action within the law, but also at what it does with integration, polarisation and segregation in our country. Then we'll be at Erdogan's weekend schools. A representative of DENK just asked: what is against learning Turkish? Nothing at all, it's a beautiful language. What is the problem with getting to know Turkish culture? That's a fantastic culture, with history. What's wrong with getting acquainted with Islam? It's fantastic to learn about that. But why should this be done at a school organized by the Turkish Government, with a teaching package with Erdogan's stamp on it? Why do you have to do that? I understand that it's kind of complicated to forbid that. We have freedom of religion here in this country, freedom of association, freedom of expression, freedom of education. We have freedom here and that freedom makes it difficult to combat these kinds of areas of Erdogan. But I'm still asking the ministers what they can do. We cannot just allow everything that is allowed under the law at the moment when people born here have grown up here and have their future here, so against this country and against these people. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u190	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Pieter Heerma on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u191	Mr. Chairman. It is a year since this debate was requested, originally following a jihad-like sermon in a Diyanet Mosque in Hoorn. In the weeks following that sermon, there have been all kinds of experts and experts who have found something about it: was it or was it not a war speech? Several experts have indicated, following this, that it may not have been jihadistic in the sphere of IS, but that it was war rhetoric with a religious sauce. References to the sweet nectar of martyrdom for soldiers who sacrifice themselves for faith, flag and land in the Turkish attack in Afrin, which Mr Van Raak has just mentioned: I don't like that, in a mosque here in the Netherlands. Minister Koolmees wrote in his letter of last spring that it was almost a year ago that, as far as is known, texts intended for Diyanet mosques in Turkey and not for Diyanet mosques in the Netherlands were used once. What does "as far as known" mean? Are there any indications it's happened before? It seems to me to be a little encouraging at all. After all, the Turkish presidency of religious affairs supplies mosques under its control, so politically loaded war rhetoric with a religious sauce, but we do not have to worry, because that is only for mosques in Turkey. At least as far as is known, because as far as is known it only happened once in the Netherlands. Can the Minister explain why he is confident that there are no more undesirable political lines from Ankara to mosques in our country? Mr Paternotte has just asked for this. The Minister also stated in his letter that the Islamic Foundation Netherlands intends to prevent Turkish politics and religion from getting mixed up, and that before the summer there will be a new control model that would guarantee that. I may have missed something. I've been looking, but I've never heard of it since. So I ask the Minister: is it true that nothing has been done with it? And what does the Minister think of that? Does he still agree that measures need to be taken to prevent Turkish politics and religion from getting mixed up? I'd like a response to that. Mr. Chairman. The second topic of this debate is the intimidation of Dutch parliamentarians in Turkish media. Colleagues who, as a result of their voting in this house, are thrown away as traitors of Turkey, are intimidated and threatened. I think it is very right that you, as President, have stood in front of your parliamentarians, drawn a line in the sand and said: this is unacceptable, this is absolutely unacceptable. I support that, and I believe that is the case for virtually everyone in this house. I find it difficult that Mr Azarkan has just said that he regrets it, but in the following he says 'we are from DENK for transparency' when it comes to statements made by his group chairman, who are directly related to this. No one can hide. Everyone has to show which side they're on. It cannot be separated from the consequences that he also says he regrets. But in any case, what we have seen, again, just like that sermon, indicates a worrying mix-up and interference from Turkey. In this context, I would also like to look at the state of play of the development of the new integration system. Last November, together with Mr Paternotte, I asked the Minister to consider whether, in line with recent rulings by the European Court, there is scope for the inclusion of newcomers from Turkey in this new system. He indicated that he was willing to do so and that he would look into it together with Secretary of State Harbers in the development of the new system. This new system is now being worked on. I think we will get a letter to the general consultation next week. But I'm also curious to see what's going on with this point. That is where Mr Paternotte increased the initiative at the time, and I supported it. Then there are the weekend schools that the Turkish government wants to finance in the Netherlands. I find it worrying and undesirable that Turkey as a state should finance informal education in the Netherlands, in this way and with the motives expressed last summer in Sarajevo by Erdogan, as part of a diaspora policy in which people are asked not to integrate into Dutch society but to stay focused on Turkey. I would like to know from the Minister whether he intends to continue to look at how this funding can be countered, in line with the Becker/Jasper van Dijk motion, which was supported by almost all the groups in this House at the end of last year, except one or two. I am also curious about the way in which supervision can be monitored. There has just been a little debate between Mr Paternotte and Mr Segers. That's the second part of that motion. Although I see that there are complexities to allow the education inspection to look at, I wonder what role it could play, especially when you talk about step 2 and step 3 of that exploration, where there are indications of a possible anti-integrative, anti-democratic or anti-legal character. If that is the case, then I think there is reason to monitor it. Why couldn't the education inspector do that? I would therefore like to hear from the Minister what role the education inspector could possibly play in this and whether he would like to take this into account in the development of the exploration. A related demand and a potential alternative can be found in the supervision created in the previous period around mosque interiors. The minister's predecessor, Minister Asscher, passed a law through the Chamber, which also provides for a form of supervision of mosque interiors. In any case, I would like to know what the state of affairs is there, because I do not think we have heard any more about it, and I believe that there was a need for an evaluation last year. Could this supervision, that legal framework, be an alternative, so that when there is any worrying developments and interference, it can still be monitored?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u192	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Özdil on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u193	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to start with a thought experiment. Suppose, in the years after the Second World War, Turkey had developed economically hard and suppose that the Netherlands had remained poor. Turkey decides to get guest workers from the Netherlands and large groups of people from the Netherlands go to work in Turkey and stay there. Ankara therefore decides to develop integration policies. Next, the Turkish government brings very conservative and very nationalist Dutch organisations to Turkey and will facilitate and subsidise them in order to promote the integration of Dutch immigrants in Turkey. Such a strange course of action would be unthinkable, wouldn't it? Yet that is what has happened in the Netherlands since the 1960s, with good intentions by the way. Mr. Chairman. Partly because of this history, we face the challenges of today's debate in 2019. That is why, on behalf of my group, I would like to begin by congratulating Minister Koolmees on his commitment to GroenLinks to stop speaking in the context of integration with Diyanet and other Turkish religious foundations and organisations. This is a historic step in the history of Dutch integration policy, because it has always been strange that Dutch integration ministers consulted with a foreign ministry on Dutch citizens. Mr. Chairman. The government agreement states that this cabinet wants to avoid funding organisations from non-free countries. GroenLinks agrees and we welcome a number of steps that the cabinet wants to take in this regard. We understand from the letter that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is having talks with the Gulf States on this subject and that some of them have given an oral undertaking that they will not support organizations in the Netherlands, without the Dutch authorities being aware of it. The following three questions. What countries have made these oral commitments? What exactly does such an oral commitment mean? And are these oral commitments still formal? I'd like an explanation. Mr. Chairman. Previously, ministers indicated that they would look at the basic principle of reciprocity when dealing with money flows from non-free countries. My group can understand that point of departure in this case. GroenLinks also shares the government's concerns about possible indoctrination of Dutch children through weekend schools sponsored by the Turkish government. At the same time, my group understands that it is not easy to have a clear solution to this problem. Therefore, the greater appreciation for the stakes. As far as the Minister is concerned, an important bottleneck is that these Turkish weekend schools are not covered by the Dutch education inspection, because they are not paid by the Dutch government. That sounds like a flaw in the law. Can the Minister explain this bottleneck in detail? What exactly are the legal obstacles and can we possibly resolve them with a legal adjustment? I also ask this question because, as far as we have been able to verify, foreign schools in Turkey are covered by the Turkish education inspection. Can the Minister explain exactly what this is all about? Are Dutch schools in Turkey indeed covered by the Turkish Education Inspectorate? What's that all about? "Equal monks, equal hoods" is, as far as we are concerned, a goal worth pursuing. Mr. Chairman. In addition, I would like to make the following point. Minister Koolmees said yesterday in an interview with NOS that the Turkish government wants to be transparent and want to know everything about the teaching material. But what exactly does transparency look like? Does it just want to share everything? Or has the Minister also made clear agreements on Dutch access to the teaching material of those weekend schools? I'd like an extensive response. Finally, I would like to say the following. This is a special debate for me, because I am not only a spokesperson, but also one of the subjects on the agenda. In the absence of a better term, I had "the honour" to be called "land traitor" on the front page of the largest Turkish newspaper, together with colleagues Nevin Özütok, Dilan Yeşilgöz, Cem Laçin and Sadet Karabulut. I shall come back to that today, not because of the insults that led to it and not because of the threats that led to it. I'll get back to you because I'm GroenLinkser. I am a historian, I am a parliamentarians and above all I am a proud Dutchman. Apparently, many Turkish Dutch don't see me and themselves that way. I am very concerned about this, because Dutch politicians with a Turkish background had to 'confess colour'. They "have to justify themselves" - those were the words of Mr Kuzu of DENK - about their views on Turkey, specifically the Armenian genocide. While politicians without a Turkish background didn't have to. Mr. Chairman. I do not want to waste too many words on it, but I am surprised that neither Mr Kuzu nor Mr DENK have ever told me 'excuses; we should not have done so; we should not have done so'. Some self-reflection of one's own actions seems to me appropriate here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u194	Thank you, Mr. Özdil. That was... No, we still have Mr Segers as the last speaker, on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u195	Madam President. What makes us the Netherlands? It's not the color of our skin. It's not our belief. It's not whether we believe in anything or not. It is not our political view. What makes us the Netherlands is a democratic rule of law, with values and with freedoms that we have together. And the paradox of freedom is that this democratic rule of law gives a great deal of freedom, including the freedom to hold strange views, to believe in strange opinions, to claim something curious. That's the freedom we all get. At the same time, the democratic rule of law protects that freedom and must also be protected, because that freedom is vulnerable. We can also give freedom to what is at odds with that freedom, which is trying to destroy that freedom. That is the paradox of our democratic rule of law. That leads to tension. We do not ask newcomers to assimilate. There is no model citizenship that they have to comply with. But they must embrace the democratic rule of law, because it is not cultural relativism that keeps us going. It is a belief that freedoms are fundamental and indivisible, and that they belong to everyone. That is where we need to find our way. In that context, in that tension, a sermon is being held in Hoorn and we are debating it a year later. Yeah, you're allowed to have strange views. That is the democratic rule of law. It gives freedom to believe something strange and perhaps to choose strange words. But where that leads to a lack of integration, where it runs counter to the rule of law, where it runs counter to democracy, it becomes unacceptable. That is why the cabinet, this coalition, in the coalition agreement, has sought ways of limiting it, on the basis of reciprocity. The cabinet has sent a letter announcing measures and even legislation. I thank the Cabinet for that. At the same time, my passionate appeal is: speed it up! Mr De Graaf of the PVV also said it in so many words, albeit with a slightly different intonation, but I repeat his words: it is high time that this was done. Without restricting that freedom. Without going to fight freedom with unfreedom. We must uphold freedom, but sometimes we must also protect freedom. We can do this by limiting foreign financing from non-free countries where there is no reciprocity. Madam President. A second topic is Turkey's influence. We have already devoted a great deal to it in the event of interruption. Mr Becker, I believe, referred to the 'diaspora policy'. That is actually a very conscious policy of Turkey, which is aimed at keeping people with a Turkish background mainly Turkish. I liked the words of Mr Özdil, who said: I am a proud Dutchman, I am a GroenLinkser, I am so much more; and I am especially a member of the democratic rule of law, I embrace them and I stand for that freedom. That's what gets me. It also affects me when he is then addressed and there really is a form of ethnic profiling, in which he is reduced to a Turkish identity, and has to find something because he has that ethnic background. I find that extremely regrettable, and I appreciate his bravery in standing here, then keeping his back straight, finding what he thinks and contradicting what his freedom is trying to restrict. I support him in that. I do ask the Foreign Minister the following question; I believe that Mr Paternotte has already asked that question. There were indeed no diplomatic ties at that time. There are now. What if an incident like that happens again? Does the Foreign Minister intend to use these diplomatic ties to address Turkey as well? Because what is published in Turkish newspapers, which is broadcast in Turkish media about people with Turkish-Dutch identity, has a great impact. As far as I am concerned, that cannot remain undisputed. We must therefore use everything we have at our disposal to stand up for this freedom, for freedom of expression, for personal freedom, for security too, for people, for members of this Chamber. I would like to call on the Foreign Minister to do so. Then we get to the point of the weekend schools. Here, too, is the search for the extent to which we give freedom to freedom and in which we want to cut off any lack of freedom or possible lack of freedom. I agree with Mr Becker's question. She said: has there not been any intention to write down a counter-movement, a counter-strategy, because we want people to be members of the democratic rule of law? We want them to embrace them and know their full membership instead of listening to what President Erdogan says, namely: you are Turkish, you will remain Turkish and you will always remain Turkish; don't become a Dutchman, don't become a German, or wherever your new homeland may be. Then it is also important that, where there is so much talk of a direct policy of keeping people mainly Turkish, it should be opposed to policies that place the democratic rule of law at the centre and encourage people to embrace them and be a full member of them. I agree with the questions put by Mr Heerma, who said that we have had a reflection on boarding schools and possibly monitoring them. That's what we've agreed on. Could we not agree to the agreements that were made then, so he asked. In the case of interruption, I have already shown some hesitation in the role of inspection, but my question is: how can we guarantee this freedom at the same time, without changing it to the contrary? Could this be taken into account in the broad exploration announced by the cabinet when it said it would look at the forms of informal training? This is a form of informal education. It has been announced that state actors will be looked at. This is a state actor. Then my question to the Minister for Integration is: what kind of future policy could we apply already? What about what we have intended, in terms of local knowledge, a task force or possible legislation, could we implement and apply already? Madam President. I will conclude with what I started with, the democratic rule of law. That's what connects us, which is what also gives room to newcomers to fit in and be a full part of it. The Dutchmanship is not defined by the colour of our skin, by our beliefs, but is defined by our Constitution, by the democratic rule of law. We'll keep them up. It gives freedom, but there are also times when we need to protect that freedom. This is one of those moments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u196	Thank you, Mr Segers. With this we have completed the first term on the side of the Chamber. There is a need for a suspension of about 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u197	I give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u198	Thank you, Madam President. In recent years, it has been clearly noticeable that this has again been highlighted by the many questions of your Chamber of Representatives that what is happening in Turkey has an impact on Dutch society. Dutch society is based on the values of our democratic rule of law and offers a huge variety of beliefs, backgrounds, religions and preferences. Those are values that I personally am full of and that offer room for other sounds. Freedom is at the heart of a democratic rule of law. That is why I find it unacceptable that there are countries that abuse our freedoms and our achievements. The Netherlands is an open and free society. A general starting point for the cabinet is that countries are free to maintain links with their diaspora. But it is very important that this is done in all freedom and not in the way of the integration and development of Turkish Dutch people. As far as I am concerned, it is completely undesirable for countries to focus on their own diaspora for their own domestic political purposes, allowing them to export national tensions to the Netherlands, to adversely affect integration and to hinder ties with the Netherlands. It is precisely as Minister of Integration that I am in favour of all Dutchmen, with whatever background, being able to participate freely in our society. My Foreign Minister will be addressing the threat in the Turkish newspaper in a moment, but I would like to say that I liked Mr Özdil's words very much, as co-Rotterdammer. But Mr Blok will deal with this point in substance. Mr. Chairman. A strong link with Turkey does not have to be an obstacle to integration, as long as it is voluntary and takes place within the limits of the rule of law. The Dutch of Turkish origin must maintain their individual freedom of choice, aimed at participation in Dutch society. However, I am concerned about the limited connection of part of the Turkish-Dutch community with Dutch society. That's what Mrs. Becker said. The second and also the third generation Turkish Dutch are born here, but not everyone feels sufficiently connected to the Netherlands. This includes such things as discrimination, the feeling that there is no room for one's own story, the active diaspora policy of Turkey as well as the tensions between the various sections of the Turkish-Dutch community. Those tensions can play a role in the bonding of the Turkish Dutch. Strengthening this commitment therefore requires a sustainable, multi-annual commitment. That's what I'm committed to. Mr Blok will shortly comment on the reports in the Turkish newspaper, the diplomatic talks with Turkey and the political campaigns. I will address general policy, counterstrategy, sermon in Hoorn, weekend schools, ISN and a number of other questions. Mr. Chairman. I shall begin with Mrs Becker's question on structural policy when it comes to diaspora policy in the Netherlands rather than responding to incidents that unfortunately happen all the time. As I said in my introduction, countries are free to maintain links with their diaspora in the Netherlands, but these links must be voluntary and must not hinder the participation of people in Dutch society. Sometimes this takes on unwanted forms. I agree with Mrs Becker that we need to be clear about how we deal with this. The cabinet has therefore also defined what undesirable foreign influence is based on the OBI policy of Minister Grapperhaus of JenV. That is also stated in the letter of 16 March 2018. In addition, of course, we also have broader integration policies, which are broadly focused on participation, resilience and participation in Dutch society. I'll come back to that in a moment. We have also shown as a cabinet that we intervene when we are crossing borders. This has even led to the withdrawal of the ambassador from Turkey, which Minister Blok will be discussing in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u199	Thank you to the Minister for his reply on the broad counter-strategy. At the time, my predecessor Azmani tabled a broad-based motion in the Chamber. The Minister says: we now have OBI policy. Minister Grapperhaus is responsible for this and I myself, as a minister, am naturally engaged in integration. I appreciate that, too, but at the same time we see that when an incident occurs, Milli Görüs travels with Dutch young people to a radical preacher, Dutch people receive letters on the doormat, yet another politician wants to come here to campaign, and so I can continue to do so, and we often get an answer in which the minister explains why this can be done under certain freedoms and within the framework of Dutch law and why he may not be able to do so so. I find that a little unsatisfactory. I would be very pleased if we could put something more fundamental on paper: how can we deal with the fact that this is constantly coming to the Netherlands, apart from any incident, how can we combat it? But also: what can we do about the fact that a quarter of those Dutch people with a Turkish background say "I don't feel like a Dutchman"? I believe that the Minister for Integration should develop an active strategy on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u200	I agree with Mrs Becker, and I also get an uncomfortable feeling in these incidents, in which our freedoms of our democratic rule of law are indeed clashing with, say, the invulnerableness of other countries. The answer isn't always easy. We do indeed have undesirable foreign influence on the policy. We now have a broad policy on integration, resilience and the prevention of foreign interference. I am going to say something about the informal education and the weekend schools, for example. For each theme, you can explore how to increase resilience and how to either prohibit or counteract unwanted forms of interference or mitigate it. We have also taken a broad approach over the past week, and we have sent a letter on the task force when it comes to how to ensure that we, as a state government, cooperate better with municipalities in the event of extremist behavior. We also ensure that municipalities get an action perspective to intervene, for example at a mosque in a neighborhood where bad things happen. It is therefore a combination of different policies, different interventions, the three-track policy and the escalation ladder. I do understand that Mrs Becker thinks, "Where is the umbrella?', But I would warn you to put an umbrella on top of this. Because each time they are separate subjects, situations where we have to make separate policies each time. Think of such a situation of informal education or weekend schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u201	I understand what the Minister is saying. I also congratulated the cabinet last week for the fact that where it seemed impossible for years to think about legislation at all when it came to mosque financing, this cabinet says: we are going to come up with a legislative test. That's what the Minister's pointing out. Only, that's about funding from all kinds of non-free countries. What is particularly important here is the active diaspora policy from Turkey. In the Netherlands, one of the largest communities with a different cultural origin is the Turkish community. I do not see these people as Turk, but just as a Dutchman. But these people sometimes do not feel Dutch and that is a big problem. The influence from Turkey takes a form that is not comparable to influence from other countries. That is why I would like to see an active counter-strategy drawn up by this Minister specifically on diaspora policy from Turkey. I can't stop thinking that's important.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u202	We do a lot of different things in many different areas. Again, I share Mrs Becker's concerns, even if you look at the number of incidents. A year ago there was cause for this debate, but in the year there were several incidents with Turkish involvement. If you don't mind, I'll go over them in a minute and I'll come back to them at the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u203	Yes, please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u204	I feel Mrs. Becker is looking for an umbrella. Having said that, Mrs Becker asked for a meeting with Turkish organisations on 26 November. She also asked: is it true that more liberal Turkish organisations did not want to come? Mr Özdil also raised the question, or actually made the point that I indicated last year that the Turkish organisations have no role in the integration policy in the Netherlands as far as I am concerned. That is still the starting point. Of course we do talk to all kinds of organizations. I myself spoke with 14 different Turkish organisations last year, from the alevites to the Labour Party to the AK party, so to speak. I have spoken with all these different groups in Turkey, also from the point of view of the tensions that are indeed present in Dutch society, as a result of tensions in Turkish society. So we do have regular conversations. Also on 26 November was such a conversation. That's not about integration. This is about the tensions that exist in Turkish-Dutch society, also as a result of tensions in Turkey itself. Several organisations have been invited to do so. It was up to the organisations themselves to respond to the invitation. It was not chosen to invite certain organisations and not others. Once again, I would like to emphasise that the organisations do not have a role in active integration policy, but I am happy to be in conversation with these organisations to hear and feel what is going on in Turkish-Dutch society, especially with regard to integration policy and to avoid something like Mrs Becker rightly says, namely that 25% of Turkish Dutch people do not feel like they are part of Dutch society.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u205	Finally, Mrs Becker.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u206	Good to hear the Minister say: I am not talking to them about my integration policy; they are not part of the integration policy. But would it be an idea to invite the groups he is talking about, the groups that are also concerned about the integration of the Dutch and the unwanted influence, for once, instead of having the feeling that they are sitting at the table of Erdogan's long arm and may not sometimes feel free to speak? That seems very worrying to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u207	I know it's happening. I think Mrs Becker's signal is right, because I know it is happening. I know those signals, too. I know that some organisations indicate that they do not want to sit down with all the organisations. That is why there are separate talks with other organisations. Those conversations are taking place. So Mrs. Becker can rest assured. Those sounds are also heard. These groups are discussed, again, not about integration policy, but on the contrary about the tensions that unfortunately exist in Turkish-Dutch society.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u208	Erdogan seizes every opportunity to indoctrinate, form, intimidate people here in the Netherlands. That's his policy. He'll keep doing that. I feel like there's a minister here who says, "We're gonna keep an eye on that. We're gonna see if he's not legally out of line. And then we're gonna talk to that one. And then we're gonna do that." It's very defensive. And Erdogan keeps coming. It's gonna keep coming. It's gonna keep coming. It's gonna keep using all the possibilities. If we are so defensive and say, "Yes, but would you do so, and can you do so, and sister and all that?', Then we're not gonna win that fight. That long arm's here. My question is, how are we going to put that long arm back?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u209	In different ways. I will come back to this in a few moments. I agree with Mr Van Raak's general analysis. I started my introduction to that too. I have also started by saying that some expressions and some behaviour are contrary to the democratic rule of law that we are. It is also constantly searching for: how do you maintain these freedoms and ensure that the rule of law is maintained, and how can you at the same time prevent unwanted foreign influence? We do that in different ways. As I have just said, Minister Grapperhaus does so through the policy of undesirable foreign influence, I do so through integration policy, and Minister Blok does so through his diplomatic channels, precisely to push back and counter what we all see and find worrying.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u210	I understand the Minister's gonna go through all these points, but I'm so afraid that Erdogan's long arm will stay. He's not leaving. And every time that happens, the Dutch government stands with a finger, so "yes, but that's not allowed, that's not allowed, that's not allowed." We're not gonna win that. Are we gonna tell Erdogan to stop doing this, we're not gonna accept this, you're not gonna interfere? Is that what we're gonna say to Erdogan? How are we gonna say that? How are we gonna make that clear to this guy?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u211	The Minister for Foreign Affairs will deal with this kind of policy in such a way as to ask what discussions the Minister for Foreign Affairs has with his colleague. I can say, for example, that I spoke with the ambassador last week, especially on the subject of ISN, Diyanet Netherlands, which I will return to in a moment. These are all concrete points, of which we in the Dutch cabinet say: we do not want this. Mr Van Raak can rest assured that as a Dutch cabinet on a broad field, when it comes to unwanted foreign interference and policies that hinder integration in the Netherlands, we are stepping up widely to counter this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u212	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u213	And then the minister says "we don't want to" to Erdogan. And then what? What happens then?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u214	With regard to the various subjects, I am about to explain what we all have in concrete terms for activities.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u215	Good. Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u216	Mr De Graaf said in the general block: a ban on weekend schools, dismantling Diyanet and closing the mosques. I know this appeal from Mr De Graaf. It often comes back to the debate on integration. I would also like to emphasise that in the Netherlands we know the freedom of religion, freedom of assembly and freedom of association. Therefore, it is not a cabinet policy to close mosques or to ban organizations or weekend schools. Only when there are concrete signs that anti-democratic, anti-integrative and anti-legal matters are taking place will there be any action, as outlined, among other things, in the letter on problematic behaviour, which I sent to your Chamber last Monday. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come to the sermon in Hoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u217	The whole approach of Erdogan, as I mentioned in the general section, fits exactly into the three observations mentioned by the Minister. Then why doesn't he take more and faster action than what's happening now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u218	Can Mr De Graaf be more specific?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u219	Sorry, I wasn't clear enough about that. I noticed that when I let go of the microphone. Anti-integrative, anti-democratic... That whole list. The purpose of Turkey's influence is precisely that of anti-integration. So it's segregation, it's keeping people with Turkish identity and with Turkish culture, and it's also antidemocratic in the end. We know how Erdogan operates and that more than three quarters of the Turks in the Netherlands have already voted for him twice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u220	That is why I also said in my introduction: we are a rule of law and we all have freedoms that we must defend and that we must not let go down as a result of threats from abroad. At the same time, I share the concerns of the Chamber regarding the undesirable effects of this kind of policy on the integration of Turkish Dutch people into the Netherlands. I share those concerns. As a cabinet, we are also doing a lot of work, also by making the community resilient, by engaging in conversation, but also by concrete policy when it comes to Diyanet Netherlands, when it comes to the weekend schools. That is precisely what we are doing to reduce this influence and to ensure that integration in the Netherlands is successful and that Turkish Dutch people look to the Netherlands in the future and not to Turkey.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u221	Finally, Mr De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u222	I can see a lot of creative thinking in the Minister's response. Then I would like to know from him when the project he is aiming for is finished. When will he be satisfied and when will he be finished? How many years is it going to take, and what are the hard-earned goals that he wants to hang on to his own policies?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u223	I said in my introduction: "Strengthening this bond therefore requires a sustainable multi-annual commitment." Let's not sell fairy tales to each other: that's not gonna happen tomorrow. It is really a long-term policy, which we as the Netherlands have been working on for a number of years, decades. It would be too easy to say: within so many years it will be arranged. I'm afraid that's not the case. However, we must continue to pursue this policy in order to reduce this undesirable influence. Mr. Chairman. The subject that led to this debate, almost a year ago, was the sermon at the mosque in Hoorn. Let me also say here that I understand the social uproar and the concerns from the Chamber about this so-called jihad sermon. Freedom of religion is a great asset, but this freedom must not be abused as a cover for political statements, for example to encourage people to support the struggle of another country, to issue voting advice or to hinder the integration of Turkish Dutch. Immediately after this news I indicated that it is important to find out exactly what happened. That's why my officials asked Diyanet Netherlands, the Islamic Foundation Netherlands, ISN, and immediately contacted the municipality of Hoorn to find out exactly what had happened. At the initiative of the municipality of Hoorn, the content of the sermon was judged by the local triangle. It has been found that there have been no criminal offences. The ISN prepares the Dutch sermon for the associated Diyanet mosques. In general, all Diyanet mosques in the Netherlands use these sermons, but that is not a dictation. Imams are free to use their own sermon. This happened in Hoorn last year. There the imam made a sermon based on a sermon written in Turkey for use in mosques in that country. From the perspective of integration, I think it is important that lectures given in the Netherlands are drawn up within the Dutch context. That is why I am not happy when sermons written for Turkey, or parts of them, are pronounced directly in Dutch mosques. That's what I told the ISN. However, freedom of religion applies here. We as a state do not discuss the content of the sermon, unless there are anti-integrative expressions or the crossing of criminal boundaries. In that case, it's up to the D.A. to investigate this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u224	A quick question. The Minister has spoken with Diyanet and with the Islamic Foundation Netherlands and indicated what he does not want. But then what's the answer? The Minister won't tell you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u225	I wrote an extensive letter to the Chamber, stating what happened. I will come to the specific questions, including those of Mr De Graaf. It shouldn't have happened. We have agreed with the ISN, the Islamic Foundation Netherlands, that the sermons written for the Dutch context will also be made public, both in Turkish and in Dutch, so that we can read what is being preached. To answer Mr Heerma's question right away, I deliberately wrote in the letter 'as far as it is known that this is the only case', because we do not know whether this has happened in other mosques. We don't know. There's no indication of that. There's no reason to think this happened in more places. This looks like a one-time mistake. Nevertheless, I still find it undesirable for this to happen. This was also the subject of contact with the ISN.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u226	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u227	Mr Azarkan asked if the cooperation of the local triangle at the sermon in Hoorn was sufficient. As I said, the team of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the police and the municipality judged the sermon at the mosque in Hoorn last year on possible criminal statements, such as inciting violence. This team has found no grounds for suspicion of criminal offences. I cannot judge the functioning of the triangle, I can only say in fact that this has happened. So Mr Heerma has asked for that "as far as known." It is indeed the only time, as far as is known, but I cannot guarantee that it has not happened elsewhere. Once again, we have agreed that the Islamic Foundation Netherlands will publish Friday lectures in Dutch and Turkish on its website every week. These are sermons written on behalf of the Dutch foundation and intended for the mosques in the Netherlands. I do consider that to be a positive development, because it increases transparency, just like the readability, because they are also in Dutch. I have answered Mr Van Raak's question. The sermon itself was horrible and I have distanced myself from it. That is a one-time mistake, as far as we know. I have voted in favour of developments since then. Then the Turkish weekend schools. The Chamber has asked questions about this before.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u228	I have the impression that the Minister has not answered some of the questions that have been asked about that sermon. Mr Paternotte and I have explicitly asked for this. The letter of 26 April in response to Mr De Graaf, to which the Minister referred, also states that agreements were made that the ISN would change the organisation...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u229	I'll get to that in a minute. I have a separate block about the ISN. That comes after the weekend schools. On the weekend schools, the Chamber asked questions earlier, even during a debate. As mentioned earlier, including in my introduction, people are free to let their children go outside of regular education to informal or informal education. Our constitutional freedoms of assembly and association also see that the government cannot intervene in this, so that is also a protection for the government. But that does not alter the fact that I absolutely share the concerns of your Chamber. That is why my Foreign Affairs colleague, in several talks with the Turkish government, has raised Dutch concerns about this and asked for that complete transparency. As you can read in the letter, organisations in the Netherlands can apply for grants for weekend schools in the Netherlands. For the time being, these organisations are responsible for the content of the courses themselves. Work is still under way on the curriculum in Turkey. It is agreed that Turkey will continue to inform the Netherlands; the Minister for Foreign Affairs will return to that in a moment. This has given me an opportunity to explore informal education in the Netherlands. The previous debate made it clear that the concern of the Chamber is broad and also relates to that undesirable foreign interference through informal education. That is why we have announced that we will launch an investigation into this informal education, to see if there are, for example, state actors financing informal training and to see whether this education is anti-integrative, anti-legal or anti-democratic or contains elements of it. I also indicated that I would like to look more broadly at other actors, non-state actors, who offer or support informal training and have the same objective: to teach against integration, against the democratic rule of law. There is also a three-step approach. The first step is to map what we're talking about. We are not just talking about Turkey. I say to Mrs Becker: yes, the Turkish weekend schools are certainly in that exploration. It's not just about Turkey. It concerns several forms of informal education, as there are several actors active. That is what I said in the first term of your Chamber. We'll start a broad reconnaissance. On step two, we want to map whether there are things that we do not want in the Netherlands, which are not desirable. Step three of that exploration is: what instruments do we have to counter that? I shall come back to that in a moment on the basis of a specific question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u230	I'd like to know if the subject of weekend schools is ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u231	No, not yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u232	Then I would suggest that you complete that first. Is that a good idea? Yes, there's a nod.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u233	Mr Heerma has asked whether we intend to look at how this funding can be countered within that exploration. That is in line with last year's Becker/Jasper van Dijk motion. This is indeed the case in step three of the exploration: identify the possibilities for action to be taken in the event of an anti-integrative and anti-democratic situation. These may also be talks at municipal level, for example in the context of the task force, on which I informed the Chamber last Monday. In any case, we are going to inform the municipalities in which this happens about the twelve schools I mentioned in the letter. We will also talk to the municipalities about the perspective of action there: how can the municipalities be involved in these developments? Mr Heerma also asked about the supervision and role of the education inspection. More spokesmen asked for it. Mr Paternotte asked for that too. Mr Segers gave the answer to that in an interrupting debate. Of course, the powers of the education inspection lie with the Ministry of OCW, with colleague Slob. But it cannot ensure that education is not an education within the meaning of education law. So it's about funding from the Dutch state. The core of the monitoring is looking at compliance with legal requirements. Weekend schools are not regulated by educational legislation. They are therefore not covered by the education inspection. You'd have to change the law for that, wouldn't you? This cannot be done under the current law, because it is about funded education. On what is happening in Turkey, Minister Blok is about to reply. This concerns Mr Özdil's question. That is what Minister Blok is about to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u234	Let's finish the weekend schools. Then Mr Özdil and Mr Van Raak will have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u235	Mrs Becker has asked if the twelve weekend schools will be included in the exploration. Yeah, they're being taken. I believe that Mr Van Raak's question, which is what we are going to do in step three of the exploration, has already been answered. We are going to map out how we can intervene and what the perspective of action is, even if there is undesirable behaviour. Mr Heerma and Mr Segers asked about the evaluation of the Law on Youth Accommodation. That evaluation is expected for the summer of 2018. So that's fast. That law was indeed created because there were concerns from the Lower House about the lack of visibility and supervision of the youth residences. So that's wider than mosque interiors, but they're also included. The government felt it was part of its duty of care to ensure that this particular group of children was protected. That evaluation is ongoing. The scope is therefore wider than mosque interiors and also wider than Turkish-Dutch boarding schools. It's a broad reconnaissance. You will be informed about this before the summer of 2019. I think it belongs to colleague De Jonge of VWS. But you will be informed about this at least before the summer of 2019. In this context, Mr Paternotte asked whether, while the reconnaissance is going on, I am prepared to form committees of people who are passing by and who are actually looking at what is happening, in addition to transparency about the teaching material and also the transparency that the Turkish authorities have promised us about the curriculum and about where it is taking place. I would first like to stress that I think it is positive that Turkey has promised full transparency and cooperation, including on the teaching material and on which organisations receive subsidies. This does not mean that the Turkish government has anything to say about whether Turkish-Dutch organisations are opening their doors to supervision, because that is up to the Dutch organisations themselves. What I intend to do anyway is to talk to the municipalities where the foundations that received the grant are to see if there can be cooperation at local level. This can be done in the way Mr Paternotte mentioned, through peer review, or through transparency and openness. But first, I want to identify which organisations are involved and whether the information we have received is correct. Then I'll talk to the congregations... Sorry, this is going too fast, of course. Is the information we've been given on where the subsidies end up? Then we talk to the municipalities and see if we can work together at local level to achieve that transparency.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u236	Good. Mr Van Raak was first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u237	Look, I'm fine with such an investigation, but of course we already know the outcome: Erdogan is going to take advantage of the situation. He's going to run political propaganda for his own policy. He is going to set up children in the Netherlands against Dutch society. That's just what he's gonna do. I'm willing to put a Valentine's wine on that. Do we have to go after the facts like that? Can't we just say no?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u238	No, we can't just say no. We have freedom of education and freedom of religion. There are various forms of informal education in the Netherlands. That's not just what state actors do. It has already been mentioned in the first term: Turkey is one example of it, but other countries also do so, and European countries such as Germany and France. We do it ourselves as the Netherlands. We also have Dutch language and culture education abroad. But there are also Chinese schools and Japanese schools in the Netherlands. I would like to stress that I share the concerns of the Chamber when it comes to this, because there is clearly a link to President Erdogan's speech in Sarajevo when it comes to active diaspora politics. That also distinguishes it from the other forms of education. At the same time, there is freedom of education and training. So it's not state-funded. There's no funding, so the education inspector isn't here. But because we share those concerns, we want to keep our finger on the pulse. Mr Blok has looked up his colleague in Ankara for that transparency and to know where it is. And we must now keep our finger on the pulse to keep an eye on these developments, because I agree with your Chamber: if it is anti-integrative, nobody is waiting for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u239	Can Saudi Arabia just start schools here? What about Iran? And Qatar? Can everyone just start schools here without us being able to do anything about it, except for a good conversation and hope for the best?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u240	Everyone in the Netherlands is allowed to spend their free time outside of regular school hours, because children are of course simply required to teach.. informal education. Once again, this is happening frequently, not only by Turkey, but also by many other countries: Germany, France, Japan, China, the United States and so on. But there are also many other forms of informal training, for example not by state actors, but by foundations. I am thinking, for example, of Koran lessons and Bible lessons. This is also informal training in the Netherlands, which, of course, can be given within the Constitution and within our democratic rule of law. That is the freedom we have in the Netherlands, which we always find to be a great asset.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u241	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u242	I know. I'm happy about that, too. That is why we are a democracy and a rule of law. We have freedom and we have to defend it. But what I find remarkable, as a newcomer to this committee, is that there is clearly no demand for this. We can only have a good conversation and hope for the best and we can't say: this and we don't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u243	That was once conceived from the idea of protection against the government. That is that freedom, which also preceded a great battle in the Netherlands in 1918. I am looking at Mr Segers. I hear him saying he was there himself. Of course he wasn't, but it lives on in him. Article 23 discussions are still taking place in this Parliament. So that freedom is a great asset. This applies to the Bible schools, as is the case with the Koran schools, and that applies to many other forms of informal education. Where are the concerns and why do I share those concerns of the Chamber? Because this is really linked, I would like to stress this once again to President Erdogan's active diaspora policy. That is why, as far as I am concerned, this really leads to a different assessment and there is also a different policy than usual.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u244	It is true that this agenda is crucial. There is also an interface with the fight against foreign financing from non-free countries, which we have been looking for. This seems to be very difficult to define, but there is still a form of reciprocity, which is a bit more straightforward and offers many more handles. 'Cause that's the inconvenience. I share that with colleague Van Raak. It is not a matter of any country coming in here and starting some form of informal education, because it is a matter of whether there is a democratic rule of law, a free society, which wants to offer certain language or cultural lessons, or of a president who says: I want people here to stay Turkish. Then the parallel with boarding schools. With me, the question was not so much about the evaluation, but the inconvenience there was at the time led to a number of steps being taken, such as the vog, the GGD, other forms of supervision and the talks that concern the local government. So, apart from the inspection or the precise details, steps were taken at that time. My question was whether that does not provide a basis for taking a step forward because of the inconvenience that we all feel here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u245	It could be. Then you're gonna do it another way. From the point of view of safety and hygiene and health, a law has been made for the youth residences from the same concerns. So that could be a variant. That is one of the elements that still needs to be addressed in step 3 of the exploration: what perspectives for action are there, what legal possibilities are there for combating this kind of undesirable behaviour, if any? That's possible. Mayor Halsema recently suggested that the Childcare Act should apply. That is not possible, because then child care allowances will have to be paid again, and I do not believe that this is the intention. Other variants would be possible, but what exactly that should be is part of that exploration.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u246	It is good to hear the Minister explaining the freedom of education. As a liberal democrat, I say to the Socialist that we have been given women's right to vote for this freedom of education, which is a good thing to name. Otherwise we could stand here with fewer people in 2019. I would like to quote the Minister's words that maximum transparency does not automatically mean that supervision is welcome. If that were true, we would lead to inflation of the term "maximum." I think maximum transparency means at least that you are welcome to walk in and watch. You don't necessarily have to get a cup of coffee, but you should at least be able to see what's going on there. Perhaps I should put the question to Minister Blok, but I assume that maximum transparency means that the doors are open.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u247	I refer you to Minister Blok, who spoke to his fellow minister in Ankara about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u248	Then I would also like to ask this Minister a question. We were just talking about the boarding schools, for which there are both local and national frameworks, although they do not refer to the content of the education given at these boarding schools. At these kind of weekend schools, subsidised weekend schools are, of course, not yet started.They also often stay overnight or there are trips made. When can you refer to a school as boarding school?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u249	Mr Paternotte asks me about the definition of boarding school. I really don't know. I also do not know whether that definition is included in the Law on Youth Accommodation. I can check that out for the second term. What happens here in most cases is three hours a week on weekends in language, culture and religion. So this is not an overnight stay. If they are indeed, so to speak, mosque interiors, then they are covered by the Law on Youth Rooms, which is now being evaluated.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u250	Thank you to the Minister for his clear answers. He explained well that the current Education Supervision Act does not provide for the supervision of weekend schools financed by foreign governments. My question is then: does the Minister agree with GroenLinks that this Education Monitoring Act needs to be modernised?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u251	That's a bit uncomfortable for me, because I'm not going over it. This is something from colleague Slob and colleague Van Engelshoven. That is a formal argument that I cannot answer. Whether this is the case really has to be seen in a different context. I only note that the current legal framework is really about funded education in the Netherlands. This can be monitored by the education inspector.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u252	I understand that very well. Then my follow-up question is whether the Minister is prepared to go into conclave with his fellow ministers of OCW to see if that Education Supervision Act is in need of modernisation at this particular point of weekend schools funded by foreign governments. Is he willing to at least have that conversation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u253	I was going to have this conversation anyway, because I feel that in step 3 of the exploration this variant needs to be mapped and explored anyway. That's what I'm gonna do. However, I would also like to stress that we really need to be careful not to devote all kinds of tasks to inspections. This debate is only about Turkish weekend schools, but of course there are many different types of informal education. The Dutch rule of law also applies, of course, to equal monks, equal hoods. That is just what Mr Özdil said in his first term. That also means that you should do it for all organisations. That would be a considerable burden on the education inspector.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u254	I have a brief clarification. That is exactly my point. That is why I said: on the specific issue of weekend schools financed by foreign governments. Then you can just think of all kinds of different angles. Turkey, for example, is a member of the Council of Europe. At least I want a search on this particular point. So not all schools, but schools funded by foreign governments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u255	That's a clear line. However, I would warn Mr Özdil that there are many different schools involved. I have just mentioned the Chinese, Japanese, American, Russian and many European weekend schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u256	We're talking about surveillance here. I would say: the more opportunities for supervision, the better. The VVD said about this from day one: that should come. But of course not as a final solution. I share Mr Van Raak's feeling. I have tabled a motion together with his colleague Jasper van Dijk to request this cabinet, also to see if we can limit the funding of these weekend schools. We'd rather not have them at all. Can the Minister confirm, before any confusion arises, that this is still being explored by his ministry?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u257	That's part of step 3 of the reconnaissance. The point remains, of course, that it is still about freedom of education and religion. But it is indeed part of step 3 of the reconnaissance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u258	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u259	Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the block of ISN, which Mr Heerma has specifically asked questions about. It is about the role of the Islamic Foundation Netherlands. As your Chamber knows, the cabinet has repeatedly informed ISN and the Turkish authorities that it is not desirable for the attaché to carry out religious matters or any other representative with diplomatic or consular status to play a role in ISN. The reason for this is the observation that this structure, with a double cap at least, creates the appearance of an undesirable mixture of politics and religion. Therefore, as mentioned above, the Dutch government will not grant diplomatic status to the Turkish representative who sits there, at any place in the organization of ISN. At the moment, therefore, there is no ISN leader with diplomatic status. The discussions with ISN on the new governance structure are continuing and I can tell you that this should have been and should have been a lot faster as far as I am concerned. The Dutch position has been highlighted several times and recently, last week by myself. I also expect a structural solution to be found in the short term. I'll inform the Chamber about the progress.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u260	Is this the end of this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u261	I think so. I can see in my papers that this is it. Mrs Becker asked that question, as did Mr Paternotte and Mr Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u262	Mr. Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u263	Last April's letter indicated that ISN undertook to change that organizational structure, to prevent that mix-up and that the final report was expected for the summer. The Minister's answer indicates that this is still going on and that it should have been much earlier as far as he is concerned. Can he indicate why it would take so long if it was expected that it would have worked before the summer? We are now more than six months further.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u264	We have raised this point and the issue of the separation of politics and religion several times, both through officials from my department and through other contacts. Unfortunately, this has not led to a new governance structure that meets these requirements. Very recently, a few weeks ago, the officials sent a very clear signal to ISN. Last week I made such a statement and I hope that it will be settled quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u265	Is it true that a new governance structure has been put in place, but that it does not meet the commitments that have been made, or are we still waiting in vain for the commitment to be fulfilled at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u266	Different in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u267	I'll do that in the second term, because this listens closely. It is about discussions that have taken place over the past year and which have explored different modalities. But there is no solution yet; that is clear. Then a list of other questions. The Paternotte-Heerma motion on the investigation into the duty of integration for Turkish newcomers. On the basis of case law and practice in other Member States, the Court has asked to explore how the integration policy can also apply to individual Turkish newcomers. Together with JenV and the IND, we are currently exploring the legal possibilities for this. This exploration is now underway and the results will be involved in the impact letter integration, which you will receive before the summer. That's about the new integration policy. That is not the letter that will be coming soon, for next week's AO, but really the agenda for the summer. Mr Van Raak asked why salafist organizations have become so dominant. And now what happens to the list of Salafist organizations? I seem to recall that it is there in response to the 2007 questions. In general, salafist institutions are known to be attractive because of the strict and therefore clear behavioural rules, the often professional offer of informal education in Dutch, not stately but through foundations, proactive recruitment and active use of social media. That's why they're attracted as a foundation. The list of organisations that came out of the 2017 WODC research has provided more insight into the dynamic salafistic spectrum. Problematic elements within the Salafist movement, which spread undemocratic, anti-integrative and intolerant messages, must be addressed. To that end, we sent this approach Problematic behaviour and unwanted foreign funding to the Chamber last Monday. This is about an integrated approach, in which several ministries work together, BZ, JenV and SZW, but in which the services also have a role. We do this to bring together information, including on funding from abroad, to describe it multidisciplinaryly and to come up with an intervention strategy together with the municipalities. It is often about problematic behavior and not about criminal behavior. Criminal is easy, at least "easy": then the Public Prosecutor can go, I'll say. This is often about problematic behavior that is not punishable, but undesirable. To this end, we have developed a three-track approach with each other in the Netherlands, also with municipalities, to engage in the conversation, to confront and, if necessary, to disrupt, if this does not lead to adjustments. Whatever we do is to make it easier to understand and broaden the perspective of action at municipal level. An example of this is the discussion about the Civil Code 2:20, your Chamber probably knows. Certainly by Mr Van Raak well-known and by Mr Dekker. What is also going on, for example, is another proposal by Mr Dekker on transparency at foundations in the Netherlands. It must be made clear what donations are being made and where these donations come from, so that it is transparent. I thought Mrs Leijten was still at Buitenhof last Sunday, or the Sunday before that; at least I saw it. That's what my colleague Dekker is doing. So you can see that work is being done in different areas to increase the scope for action of municipalities. From the Empire, the municipalities are supported in various ways to address problematic behavior, by sharing knowledge, by cooperating with the explanation, by organising it, but also by thinking about the roll-out of successful actions, in the vein of: "That's how the municipality has done it, can you also apply this approach?" Mr. Chairman. I think those were the questions I was asked. I would like to thank the Chamber and give the floor to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u268	Yes, thank you. I shall now give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u269	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I too share the concerns that the Members of Parliament have expressed almost all about the situation in Turkey. This applies to human rights and to freedom of the press. Since diplomatic relations have been restored, I am also able to convey that message loud and clear to my Turkish colleague. That's what I did when I went to Ankara. Where Mr De Graaf was the first speaker to speak and said that he did not think it was a good choice to restore diplomatic relations, I strongly disagree with him. If diplomatic relations had not been restored, I would not be able to deliver this message, although it is widely shared here in the Chamber. We work intensively with Turkey on important issues such as protection for crime and terrorism. The country is at the threshold of Europe, is a transit route. We also have economic interests. Many reasons to maintain diplomatic relations, to name what is wrong, to emphasise where we can work well together, but not pretend we do not both exist and are neighbors.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u270	Was that a general introduction?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u271	That was my answer to Mr De Graaf's question as to why we restored diplomatic relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u272	Okay. Mr. De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u273	I understand some things. We do business with as many countries as possible. That's what we do when we're fighting. The trader will always exist in the Dutch, including in other countries, so that will not be the problem. In addition, of course, Erdogan is pulling the strings where the 6 billion deal with the EU is concerned. So yes, I understand that the Minister chooses to have a chat there once in a while. But has Turkey, has the Foreign Minister or has Erdogan himself once apologized for this Nazi and fascist equation that has often been made by the Turkish Government and also by Erdogan himself?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u274	I am pleased that Mr De Graaf, unlike in his first term, recognises the importance of maintaining diplomatic relations. It doesn't help to start demanding each other to apologize again and again. We've been through a serious crisis. We have decided to resume these diplomatic relations, and now we are moving forward, by naming what is wrong and seeking cooperation where necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u275	Yeah, so the minister got himself used as a punching bag on behalf of the government and the Dutch people. He called them 'fascists', the whole people; he called the government 'leftovers of the Nazi regime', once again called the Dutch people 'a fascist people'. He has had them all over Western Europe compared with the situation before 1939/1940 and we are simply going to establish diplomatic relations, because it is so important and we are going to continue! Then we'll go on like nothing happened. The minister, let's just say, gets a couple of left wings from Erdogan, scribbles off the floor, doesn't even say, "Oh, man, couldn't we have talked normally?" And then he says, "Let's move on lightly." That's impossible, isn't it? You wouldn't be worth a snipe, would you? A country like that laughs at you, doesn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u276	Mr De Graaf may expect me to stand up for the Dutch interests. There was a debate here not so long ago when one of the attackers in Brussels travelled through Turkey and the Netherlands. This illustrates how incredibly important it is that you have contacts with each other: contacts to name what is wrong, but also to exchange when, for example, terrorists cross our borders, or when crime goes across our borders. So the caricature simplicity that Mr De Graaf uses would incredibly damage the Dutch interests, the Dutch security. Fortunately, we do not use that kind of simplism as a Dutch government.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u277	The Foreign Minister's argument does not stand. I don't blame him for taking a swing at me. I mean, if you don't have the guts in Turkey, you're gonna have the guts to talk to a PVV guy. You've got to lose your energy somewhere. That valve's gotta drain sometime. So okay, I'll get that. But that simplism the Minister is talking about does not exist at the PVV. The simplism is right there! The security argument only stands if you properly control your own borders, and that is what this government and this minister do not want. That's simplism. So I'm gonna bounce the ball back. Then perhaps the Minister can say something about that again; fine. I'll take that back. But leave the simplistic argument aside. If we had properly checked the boundaries, that security argument would not have been discussed. The simplism is with the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u278	Now Mr De Graaf suggests that you can fight crime that works across borders, terrorism that works across borders, without international cooperation. That's staggering, isn't it? That's really horrible, isn't it? Mr. Chairman. I shall now turn to Mrs Becker's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u279	You may correct something, Mr. De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u280	The minister is actually doing a very old extreme left-wing trick. You're gonna get a very small thing and it's gonna magnify you up a lot. Without international cooperation, he says. As if we do not want international cooperation at all! That is simplism and a caricature of things. Of course, we are in favour of getting out of the EU and abandoning a number of treaties, precisely to ensure our security and our position for the people of the Netherlands, because it is no longer the case in this globalising world. That doesn't mean we're taking out everything! The Minister's answer merely shows that he does not have an answer to my question. I find that staggering.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u281	Mr De Graaf is now suggesting that we would be given information on cross-border crime or on cross-border terrorism when we would not be prepared to enter into diplomatic relations with a country. It's still staggering.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u282	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u283	Then I come to Mrs Becker's questions. First of all, she asked me when the promised analysis of political campaigns conducted by foreign parties or governments in the Netherlands will come and about the possibilities available to limit this. I'll come up with a letter on that before the summer. Then Mr Paternotte asked Mr Segers, too, how the Dutch government looks at the headlines that made a number of Dutch MPs for traitors. I repeat the words we used as government at the time: it is unacceptable for MPs to be portrayed in such a way in a newspaper. Is the issue of freedom of the press being raised now and in the future? That was the question put by Mr Paternotte and Mr Segers. It was a very prominent subject of my first consultation after the restoration of diplomatic relations with the Turkish counterpart. That will therefore remain a subject for as long as necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u284	It was not the subject of freedom of the press that we asked to raise. I had another question. Esenler Haber and Sabah are newspapers associated with the government. Sabah has in fact been taken over by parties attached to the government. Those newspapers have called five Lower House members a traitor, with enormous consequences for their personal lives. At the time that happened, there were no relations. The question is whether, after the restoration of relations, the Minister addressed the Turkish Government and, if not, whether he intends to do so, in order to make it clear that the Netherlands is drawing a line in the sand here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u285	Sure, but we do that along the route of freedom of the press. Freedom of the press can be violated in two ways. This can be done in the manner described by Mr Paternotte, a government that uses newspapers or channels to bring out its message. That is contrary to the freedom of the press. It can also take place along another route, which also happens in Turkey, where a journalist or a medium who is not under government control expresses an opinion and is then prosecuted for it. So along both routes the Dutch message is loud and clear: freedom of the press, no interference along any route.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u286	Again, there is indeed freedom of the press in the Netherlands. There is hardly any freedom of the press in Turkey. We are dealing specifically with two newspapers which are related to the government and which are proclaiming a message of government. That is also why I am asking not so much to appeal to the Turkish Government about the desirability of freedom of the press, which in general is always good, but to the seriousness of the fact that these newspapers have in fact endangered the security of Dutch parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u287	I think that Mr Paternotte and I should agree that a Dutch minister should do so through the route of freedom of the press. Because if a Dutch minister were to say that a government should influence newspapers, I would come to an area that I do not want to be on. I stand up for freedom of the press wholeheartedly, but I'm not going to ask a government to influence newspapers. I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u288	I very much wonder if that would be the case if Dutch newspapers put people at risk in the Netherlands. Apart from that, I find the use of freedom of the press strange in that we find together that freedom of the press hardly exists in Turkey anymore. The Turkish Government can always be called upon to broaden it, but what we have to do at the moment and have to do a year ago, when it was on those front pages, is a situation in which these newspapers did not have that freedom of the press.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u289	We agree. So my call is freedom of the press along the two routes. No government talks, because that is contrary to the freedom of the press. And where a medium is not a mouthpiece, but journalists are persecuted, that is also contrary to the freedom of the press. Along that route, I address the Turkish government.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u290	What is also bothering us here is a world view that apparently prevails in Turkey that everyone with Turkish roots is supposed to have a certain position. In this case, it was about the Armenian genocide. A motion will be put to the vote and because you have Turkish roots, you have to vote in a certain way. And if you don't, that leads to reports in Turkish newspapers that you're a traitor. So there is also a world view that goes a little wider than just freedom of the press. The question is also whether there are ways of questioning this world view and also the repercussions that it has on individual members of the Chamber here in these bilateral relations, in diplomatic relations, with Turkey.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u291	Another issue I have raised is the great importance of integrating people from Turkey, with or without Turkish nationality, who live in the Netherlands, and that it is in the great interest of Dutch society and of the people we are talking about who can integrate here and live their lives as they wish. So I have also put this issue on the agenda, and I will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u292	Maybe finally, Mr. Chairman. I don't know if we're going to make much progress, but one last attempt. If reports in Turkey and statements are related directly or indirectly to the Turkish Government.................................................................................................................................................................. So do we really stand for the freedom of all Members of this Parliament?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u293	The government then called these newspaper articles "unacceptable," and I have now repeated it. I cannot speculate about future expressions, but I was only very precise towards Mr Paternotte about how we will always place freedom of the press at the centre.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u294	Members of this parliament have been threatened by Erdogan. Members of my group, from the SP, have also been threatened. What did the Minister do? Did he go to Erdogan and say, "That's not how we're gonna do it here, son?" Did he say, "This is over, and if you try this one more time, you have a problem?" Is that the tone? What did the minister say to Erdogan?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u295	When those newspaper articles appeared, there were no diplomatic relations. At first, I made sure there were diplomatic relations again. When I visited my Turkish colleague, Mr Çavuşoğlu, in Ankara, the subjects of human rights, freedom of the press, integration and weekend schools were discussed in detail. I will be addressing this last topic in a moment. In order to raise these issues, I needed diplomatic relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u296	Did the Minister also say to Erdogan, in the restoration of diplomatic relations, that you will not touch our parliamentarians with your long arm? Did he say, "We don't do this anymore?" Did he say, "If you try this one more time, you got a problem?" Has that been the subject of conversation, too? Or was the minister mainly concerned with trade and hiking and with other matters?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u297	This is a karakature. Once again, my partner was not Erdogan, but the Minister of Foreign Affairs. I have raised all these issues very extensively and emphatically there, because that was precisely one of the main reasons why we wanted to restore diplomatic relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u298	Finally, Mr. Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u299	Finally. There's gonna be elections again. What's the Minister gonna do if Erdogan can't keep his nails back at home with his long arm on our politicians? What's the minister gonna do? What message does he have to Erdogan?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u300	I have indicated that I will return to the theme of 'campaigning in the Netherlands by foreign politicians'.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u301	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u302	Both Mr Paternotte and Mr Özdil asked for transparency at weekend schools. During that same visit I asked for transparency and I also stressed the importance of integrating people of Turkish origin into the Netherlands. I have said that we would therefore like to have access to what is happening there. That's a promise, too. In the meantime, the first information has been shared. We have received an overview of organisations that have applied for funding. Schools haven't started yet, so we don't have a curriculum yet, but the Turkish minister stressed very much that he wants to be open, including in the curriculum. Mr Özdil asked whether the Dutch schools in Turkey were subject to a Dutch or Turkish education inspection. There are five Dutch weekend schools in Turkey. They are subject to Dutch education inspection.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u303	Mr Paternotte has a short question on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u304	The Minister refers to transparency. I was wondering if he would have answered my question which had just come to him through Minister Koolmees.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u305	Do you remember what question that was?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u306	The question of what transparency means.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u307	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u308	The transparency that I raised there concerns the question of which institution is involved, as to the curriculum, and whether the lessons and teaching material are also accessible to outsiders. The Minister replied in the affirmative. And so far we have indeed received the information that is now available.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u309	This element "accessible to outsiders" was also an important addition.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u310	Sure, I didn't call that for nothing either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u311	Thanks. In this way, we will maintain maximum transparency fully.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u312	Yes. Mr Özdil had a question about the information we receive from a number of Gulf states on foreign financing. The countries that have agreed to share information are Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and Qatar. We have recently received information from Kuwait and also shared it with the Chamber. Saudi Arabia and Qatar indicate that there is no funding anymore. Mr Özdil asked whether there would be a further formalisation of the information. That's not true. That would also be difficult, because then you will get the reciprocity question and the Netherlands will not share such information. I am very grateful for the information we are getting, but we are getting something that we ourselves would not give. Mr. Chairman. With this I hope to have answered the questions I have been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u313	Thank you. So that brings us to the end of the government's first term. I think there's a need for a second term. That's the case. I call Mr De Graaf on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u314	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A number of things. First of all, thank you for the answers given by both ministers. I would also like to congratulate Mr Özdil. Actually, it's weird that I have to give a compliment. It takes courage to say in the Dutch parliament he was born in Turkey I think, he has a Turkish background that you are a proud Dutchman. Compliments to Mr Özdil. Even if we disagree politically in many areas, I think this is a fine gesture. You've got to dare! That is actually a very nasty observation I have to make, but to this point, Mr Özdil. Mr. Chairman. I said in the first term: Turkey does not want friends or... I'm actually telling you my second sentence: Turkey doesn't have any friends. I have made it clear and it has actually become clear in the rest of the debate: I do not think Turkey wants any friends at all. But our government is going to Turkey to stay friends. Can we talk long and short about that, we've exchanged it. Integration, said the Minister for Social Affairs, is a long project. Then I ask the question: why do we still keep the borders open? Because with more influx it remains a long project and it has been so long. There's no logic. I'd like to file two more motions in express traffic. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting the far-reaching influence that Turkey exerts in and on our country under the leadership of President Erdogan;]] [[Whereas that influence is intended to turquoise and Islamicize our country;]] [[calls on the government to dissolve all Turkish Islamist organizations in our country, to strictly monitor all flows of money from Turkey against the risk of Islamic influence and to close all mosques,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30821-53]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u315	If you'll allow me, Mr. Chairman. I'll read this one to you soon. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting the far-reaching influence that Turkey exerts in and on our country under the leadership of President Erdogan;]] [[Whereas that influence is also exercised through Turkish weekend schools;]] [[calls on the Government to ban Turkish weekend schools and to close already existing Turkish weekend schools,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30821-54]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u316	Thank you. Mr Paternotte on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u317	Thank you, Mr President. It is extremely sad what is happening in Turkey, a country which has worked for quite some time as a democracy in a region where it is not always easy, at the interface of Europe and the Middle East, and which is now slipping into a dictatorship. It is equally extremely sad that both the tensions within Turkey and the build-up of the dictatorship regularly express themselves in attempts to as much control as possible on people born here, who have a Dutch passport and whose future lies in the Netherlands. As far as weekend schools are concerned, we would therefore like to see maximum transparency used by outsiders. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that twelve institutions have now received funding from the Turkish Government for setting up a Turkish weekend school in the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas it is undesirable to teach children with the funding of a foreign power in a way that hinders their participation in Dutch society;]] [[noting that, at the request of the Court, the Government is examining whether and how restrictions on the financing of these schools are possible and considering whether and how in the meantime a form of supervision is possible;]] [[invites the government, in consultation with the municipalities where the weekend schools are located, to develop a monitoring or visitation structure for these schools, with a view to ensuring that education in schools does not conflict with the core objectives of Dutch education,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Paternotte, Mr Becker, Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mr Özdil and Mr Pieter Heerma.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30821-55]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u318	Mr. Chairman. I told you, in debates like this, you all want to show that you're standing next to each other and not facing each other. Fortunately, for most of the Chamber today, that was also possible. We stand up for Dutch freedom and we fight against the worrying interference from Turkey, which has a major impact on integration into the Netherlands. I asked the Minister to formulate a broad counter-strategy. I have the following to say. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Turkish Government is pursuing an active and far-reaching diaspora policy in the Netherlands;]] [[noting that this does not promote integration, and leads to tensions in Dutch society;]] [[Whereas the Azmani motion c.s. (32824, No. 163) asked for the formulation of a counter-strategy and this was completed by the previous Minister of Integration only by holding talks with the Turkish Government and Turkish organisations, but this did not lead to the desired result;]] [[calls on the Government to continue to formulate a counter-strategy on the undesirable forms of diaspora policy of the Turkish government, which is also aimed at promoting the integration of Dutch people with a Turkish background,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Becker, Mr Pieter Heerma, Mr Paternotte, Mr Segers, Mr Özdil and Mr Van Raak.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30821-56]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u319	Finally, I would like to thank the Minister for Integration for replying in the affirmative...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u320	I think Mr De Graaf has another question on the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u321	It's a nice motion. I think that it can certainly receive support from the PVV, because it is a good second as far as we are concerned. We'd like to move on, but okay, that point is made. I would like to ask Mrs Becker when she is satisfied with the counter-strategy. What else does that have to say? What are the eligible objectives that it sees for itself?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u322	Thank you. I had 13 seconds left, but now I can explain this a little more. The big problem is that we must always, in every incident, see that we are all concerned and that the Minister says that we are also concerned about this, but at the same time we are being reminded of the freedoms that make it possible for the Turkish Government to appeal to it. I find that an unsatisfactory answer, because I do not think that our freedom is meant to offer a stage for more freedom. I therefore believe that a broader strategy should be developed. I think we need to think about how we can combat this and how we can ensure that those Dutch people who are now standing with their backs to Dutch society come back to the Netherlands and are not so busy with Turkey and all the conflicts there all day.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u323	Finally, Mr De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u324	Thanks for the answer. May I conclude, then, that the motion is also a starting point for reflection on this counter-strategy? 'Cause that's actually what I heard.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u325	No, I'd like to receive a counter-strategy from the cabinet. That's what I'm asking for. Thank you. Finally, I would like to thank the Minister for replying in the affirmative: the twelve weekend schools will indeed be examined in the exploration. As far as the VVD is concerned, it will certainly be considered whether the funding of these weekend schools can be limited, because we do not think they fit in with our free Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u326	Thank you, Mrs Becker. It is now Mr Azarkan's turn. I don't see them. Then I will go to Mr Pieter Heerma on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u327	Mr. Chairman. I would like to make two motions on the basis of the first-term debate. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Turkish Government is going to finance Turkish weekend schools in the Netherlands through grants;]] [[Whereas strengthening Turkish identity and targeting Turkey is a central objective in this regard;]] [[Whereas it is undesirable for a foreign power to finance training which hinders participation and integration in Dutch society;]] [[calls on the Government to consider, in its exploration of informal training, whether and how the Education Inspectorate can have a supervisory role at these weekend schools,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Pieter Heerma, Mr Paternotte, Mr Becker and Mr Özdil. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30821-57]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u328	The second motion concerns the debate that I had with the Minister of Integration on the extent to which Diyanet has or has not given substance to the Netherlands that the political and religious mix in a new structure would be countered. That is why, in anticipation of the second term, this motion nonetheless. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Diyanet representative was withdrawn in 2016 for gathering information on possible Gülenists in the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas the management of ISN has undertaken to establish a new organisational structure in which undesirable political mixes are avoided, but no follow-up has been given;]] [[calls on the government to put pressure on the board of ISN to formally establish a new organisational structure that complies with the above agreements this spring,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Pieter Heerma, Mr Segers, Mr Becker and Mr Paternotte. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30821-58]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u329	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank my fellow chamber members to whom this applies, the ministers and the government and, of course, you too, President, for the collegiality, the support, the empathy that has been shown on one of the subjects on the agenda today, which Mr Machiel de Graaf rightly said exceeded the political contradictions. On behalf of my entire group, thank you all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u330	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the ministers for the clear answers. My group welcomes the line that has been put in place and the ambition that has been shown, understanding, of course, the fact that these bottlenecks cannot be resolved overnight. The answers to my group's questions were also clear and encouraging. At one point I had prepared a motion, but I think it might be wiser to ask specifically for that point again. It concerns the specific, defined point that the current Education Supervision Act does not provide for monitoring weekend schools funded by non-EU governments. Once again, I would like to ask you to identify that particular, defined point and to identify the possibilities for changing the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u331	Thank you, Mr. Özdil. Mr Segers will not speak in the second term. Then this was the second term of office. Only the Minister of Social Affairs has motions. He's requesting a two-minute suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u332	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u333	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. All motions are addressed to me, so I'll make the response to the motions. The De Graaf motion in part No. 53 is a motion that returns regularly to these debates. Then I always answer with freedom of religion and freedom of association. We consider this to be an important asset in the Netherlands, so I would advise against this motion. The De Graaf motion in part No. 54: Banning weekend schools. I indicated in the debate that this cannot be done. I share the concerns and will make an inventory of exactly what is happening, but banning it is not recommended. At the Paternotte c.s. motion. in piece No. The signing is impressive, i.e. more than a hundred seats. I can make all kinds of judgments about it, but we're gonna do this one. We do wish to emphasise that this is voluntary supervision, because we do not have legal instruments to enforce it. We're gonna discuss that with the municipalities, and we're gonna bet on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u334	Very briefly. Mr. Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u335	Yes, it is, but I have just heard the Foreign Minister say that outsiders are welcome, so I assume that this is the current agreement with the Turkish Government on how things are. If that turns out to be different, we will return to you both.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u336	Sure. Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u337	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u338	The Becker motion c.s. in piece No. 56 is also widely signed. This is about counter-strategy and undesirable forms of diaspora politics. The answer to this will be not only from the Minister of SZW, but also from Minister Grapperhaus on the undesirable foreign interference (OBI) and Mr Blok for Foreign Affairs. That's where you're gonna judge Room. Then the motion Pieter Heerma c.s. in piece No. 57. I understand the motion, but I would like to discuss it with Mr Slob tomorrow. He's responsible for the education inspection. He has previously indicated that he finds it complicated to mix rolls. Can I promise the House that I will give an opinion on the motion before the votes on Tuesday? That gives me the opportunity to briefly discuss this motion with Mr Slob on the Council of Ministers tomorrow. If I may, I will return to that in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u339	Yeah, we're gonna vote on Tuesday, so in time it's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u340	Tuesday we're going to vote, so we'll be able to vote after tomorrow, when we get to the Trêveszaal after the protest, but we'll see tomorrow. The Pieter Heerma motion in part No. 58 asks the scheme to put pressure on the board of ISN so that there will be a formal new organisational structure that complies with the above agreements this spring. In my first term I had indicated that I would come back to this. The discussions we have had have shown that the ISN administration has started a new organisational structure, in which the religious attaché would no longer play a role in the day-to-day administration of the ISN. In the proposal, the religious attaché had a role as chairman of the Supervisory Board. My officials have indicated that this does not comply with the commitments made and that it is therefore not acceptable to me. ISN has indicated to come back to this and is also in conversation with its own supporters. I had a conversation about that last week. It's taking me too long. That is why the Chamber for the motion of Mr Pieter Heerma cum suis in part No. 58. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u341	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-14-tweedekamer-10.u342	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. According to the schedule, we would have a 30-member debate at 8.15 p.m. We are now trying to continue with the next debate. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments. I would like to thank the Foreign Minister.
