ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-5.u1	I ask the Members to stand up. Today we commemorate Chris Baljé, who died on 2 October last, a week before his 80th birthday. He was the Registrar of the First Chamber of the States General for almost ten years, from 1 June 1993 until 1 January 2003. Christiaan Laurens Baljé was born on 9 October 1939 in Rotterdam. He also attended primary school and gymnasium in the port city. In 1961 he started studying modern history at the University of Utrecht, where he graduated cum laude eight years later. During his studies, Mr Baljé was an assistant at the university and coordinated the celebration of the university lustrum in 1966. His first role as historian was given to Chris Baljé at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as a policy officer at the Directorate for Integration Europe. From that moment on, contemporary European history would continue to occupy him for the rest of his life, both professionally and privately. In 1972, Chris Baljé moved to the University of Groningen to become a scientific associate in contemporary history. Four years later, he became the scientific chief employee of the same training. From 1986 to 1993, Mr Baljé was chairman and coordinator of the new interfaculty training policy and governance in international organizations. In addition to his work at the university, Chris Baljé was a member of the Provincial States of Groningen on behalf of the VVD, from 1987 to 1993. In the early 1990s he was even a candidate for the First Chamber. In 1993 he switched from science to politics in his professional career when he became Acting Registrar of the Upper House. On 1 June of the same year Chris Baljé was appointed by the Chamber as Registrar of the First Chamber of the States General. He was going to stay that way until he retired ten years later. Mr Baljé was the twelfth Registrar since the establishment of the First Chamber in 1815. When he started, Herman Tjeenk Willink was chairman and then Frits Korthals Altes. Gerrit Braks finally addressed Baljé at his farewell in 2002. Science and education never completely let him go. He was a lecturer at the Netherlands Institute for International Relations Clingendael and continued to publish. "Freezing for yourself" was his motto. Even as a Registrar, he put learning and developing at the centre of both the official organisation and the members. He thus transformed the Registry into LOEK: Learning Organization First Chamber. The objectives were to improve internal communication, career development and training. Staff of the Registry who have worked with him look back on that commitment with warmth and appreciation. For new MPs, Mr Baljé designed an introduction programme. On its initiative, the First Chamber also decided in 1996 to hold separate budget debates on the European Union. This is still happening; the debate on Europe, which was initiated then, is now called General European Discussion. He also took the initiative of the European Bureau of the First Chamber, EBEK, which was set up in June 2001. The Bureau supported Members of Parliament in their task and responsibility to monitor and monitor developments in the European Union. The website Europapoort.nl, which we all know, has also been created thanks to Chris Baljé. In the words of NRC: "He fed the First Chamber with Europe." In 2003, Chris Baljé was appointed Officer of the Order of Orange-Nassau. In addition to his work in science and politics, he was Vice-President of the European Movement Netherlands, member of the Board of Public Administration, Chairman of the Binnenhoffestival Foundation and Chairman of the Special Committee Archives of the Council for Culture. Chris Baljé was known as a jovial, laughtery man, who loved music and reading, with a great love for Tolkien. His house in Groningen was called Rivendell and on his death card is the first verse of the poem Bilbo's Last Song. Day is ended, dim my eyes, But journey long before me groin. Farewell, friends! I hear the call. The ship's beside the stone wall. Foam is white and waves are grey; beyond the sunset leads my way. Foam is salt, the wind is free; I hear the rising of the sea. May our respect for his person and his merits for society and Dutch parliamentary democracy be to the support of his family and friends. I ask everyone to observe a moment's silence.
