ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-4.u1	We now move on to the VAO Integrated approach to security and integrity. The AO took place on 17 January last. There have been three speakers from the Chamber, but Mrs Karabulut is stuck on the train. Maybe it's clogged with climate truancy. Thank you for having some students in the public gallery who are just learning today, I say in total neutrality. This means that there are two speakers on the side of the Chamber. I am happy to give the floor to Mrs Belhaj as the first speaker. It represents the D66 Group. She has, like everyone else, two minutes' speaking time. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr President, thank you. 2 November 2017: an article in the Volkskrant about some horrible incidents in Schaarsbergen. Given the short time available, I'd like to leave it at the essence. One of the guys said: I want justice and I hope that my story will protect others. I think he did a hell of a job doing that. Mr. Chairman. In addition, a few more motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Giebels Committee concluded that there was incomplete and incorrect registration of and around reports in the Defence Department;]] [[Whereas there is a risk that cases may be established on the basis of incomplete and incorrect registration of and around legal notifications;]] [[calls on all those who have reported to the Giebels Committee who consider that they have a long-standing case, to provide an opportunity to report this and to allow cases by the multidisciplinary team to look at matters already settled in court, such as a court ruling, or on which a determination agreement has been concluded, with a fresh look,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that support from Defence personnel is essential for the success of the Defence Integrity and Central Organisation Integrity Communication Point;]] [[Whereas an evaluation of the MID and COID is of benefit to the Defence Department;]] [[invites the Government, after one year, to evaluate the functioning of the IVD, MID and COID, to involve staff (citizens and military) in this evaluation and to submit the research design of the evaluation to the Chamber in advance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that independence and objectivity are key elements for the success of the newly designed integrity policy, MID, COID and IVD;]] [[Whereas it is a condition that the objectivity and independence of the investigation and handling of notifications should be ensured;]] [[Whereas that independence of the Defence Intelligence Point (MID) and the Central Organisation Defence Integrity (COID) is also dependent on the independence of persons involved in the handling of notifications and investigations;]] [[Whereas an Inspector-General for Security and Security has been set up to carry out independent accident and incident investigations and this is also dependent on the independence of persons involved in the investigation of accidents and incidents;]] [[Calls on the Government to ensure independence and objectivity in investigations into and in the handling of complaints by the MID, COID and the Security Defence Inspection, by not involving persons (other than the reporter and/or witnesses) who have played a role in the investigation and/or handling of complaints;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure independence and objectivity in investigations requested and unsolicited by the Security Defence and COID Inspection by not involving persons who have played a role in the development of the policy under investigation in the conduct of research,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Belhaj. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-X-88]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Belhaj. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-X-89]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Belhaj. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-X-90]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-4.u3	I thank my colleagues. In my view, it is a good thing that we have dealt with this dossier in unanimity for months. I wish the DOD every success in implementing this new policy well. I will at least be careful every day that this happens properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-4.u4	I call Mr Kerstens, who may be the last speaker in this debate this morning, unless Mrs Karabulut comes running in. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-4.u5	Mr. Chairman. I appeal to your often renowned flexibility, because I am going to read a motion that would otherwise have been read by Mrs Karabulut. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that social insecurity is defined as the result of "interpersonal behaviour in the working environment that is undesirable";]] [[considers that a structural shift is necessary, with multiple resources to be deployed over a long period of time;]] [[considers that an independent hotline is a necessary condition to help restore the confidence of victims of social insecurity;]] [[calls on the Government to organise an independent hotline outside the organisation of the Ministry of Defence for a period of three years,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kerstens and Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-X-91]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-4.u6	This motion has been signed by Mrs Karabulut and me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-4.u7	Yes, then it will be the Christmas/Karabulut motion, because you have filed the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-4.u8	Next move. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas Defence personnel should always be able to report abuses and/or disasters in a safe environment and without repercussions;]] [[noting that employees who have reported abuses and/or calamities have sometimes been asked to sign confidentiality contracts;]] [[Whereas, although these non-binding contracts were subsequently referred to as "misunderstanding or miscommunications," it is important for increasing the trust and awareness of employees that a clear signal should now be given;]] [[calls on the Government to make it clear once and for all that the signing of such contracts is not an issue,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Christmas. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-X-92]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-4.u9	Yes. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in response to the Giebels report, the Cabinet indicated its intention to take over the suggestion of an escalation outside the Defence Organisation and thereby endorse the importance of this;]] [[noting that it has been reported that in this context a possible state-wide escalation possibility is sought;]] [[noting that at present it is not clear whether it will be available at all and, if so, when it will be operational;]] [[Whereas the importance of such an external escalation option does not relate to its absence for a long time or not;]] [[calls on the government to provide an "own" external (in terms of powers comparable) escalation option for the defence staff as long as this state-wide escalation option is not available,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Christmas. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-X-93]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-4.u10	And then I learned that the last motion may be the longest. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in response to the Giebels report, the Cabinet indicated its intention to take over the suggestion of an escalation outside the Defence Organisation and thereby endorse the importance of this;]] [[Whereas it has been reported that in this context a possible state-wide escalation possibility is sought;]] [[noting that the Ministry of the Interior and Kingdom Relations is in the lead;]] [[Considering that Defence may have more interest than other parts of the government (including in relation to the need to increase the trust of its employees in its own organisation) in the rapid implementation of this escalation option;]] [[calls on the Government to play a leading and/or leading role towards the Ministry of the Interior and Kingdom Relations when it comes to (fast) implementation of a state-wide escalation option as referred to above and to inform the Chamber (also self-employed) of the progress made;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Christmas. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-X-94]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-4.u11	You're a fast learner.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-4.u12	I do not have the motion in front of me, but it concerns the motion in part No. 92. I am, of course, sensitive to this, because it is annoying that that independent hotline, that escalation model, has not yet been set up in the Home Office. You are in favour of doing something in the meantime, but can you tell us a little bit more about what conditions you are setting for this to happen, because it is listening closely?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-4.u13	A clear question. I am going to try to answer them clearly, also towards the person in charge who may have the same question. The Goebels Committee suggested that, when it comes to the handling of reports, a kind of two-stage missile should be formed: first an internal procedure and then, if the reporter considers that his or her report has not been properly addressed, a second step, an escalation option, outside the Defence Organisation. The Secretary of State and/or the Minister have indicated that thought is also being given to this, but then statewide. In the debate we had, I noted the following and asked the Secretary of State. It's gonna take some time, and maybe it won't. If you agree with the suggestion made by the Giebels Committee and see the importance of such an external escalation, would you be so kind as to give for the time being an excuse for another form of external escalation, outside the Defence Organization, as a second step? In doing so, I leave it to the Ministry and to the directors how and where they do it. I did that because the Secretary of State for the time being had some suggestions that people could go to. NL-Alert and the Ombudsman were mentioned, but they are not really going to look at such a case again. NL-Alert only refers you through and then you get back to DOD. If the Secretary of State agrees with the importance of an external escalation step, I would ask her to really provide for the time being before that real external state-wide agency arrives.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-4.u14	Clear, an excellent explanation. Mrs. Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-4.u15	I can follow what Mr Kerstens says. I myself was very pleased with the initiative to invest it in Home Affairs. I have wrestled with the same question as you, but I have finally decided that detectors may be worse off if you do it temporarily and there is no organization or perseverance, so if you do something in the meantime independent without imposing any conditions. I understand your good intentions, but my fear is that this motion may eventually create an independent hotline that people have nothing to do with. That is why I asked very strongly whether you set conditions for independence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-4.u16	I have already mentioned the main condition, namely that it is external and that it is given the same authority to really look at a matter as the state-wide external escalation possibility. So it is not a question of answering the phone when someone calls and referring them back, but of having someone from outside look at the matter seriously, until the state-wide solution is there, of which the State Secretary is also in favour.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-4.u17	I'll suspend for five minutes and then we'll listen to the answers of the rulers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-4.u18	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-4.u19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And welcome to Mrs Karabulut, who was stuck on the train, but is here on time. Mr Kerstens has tabled a motion on her behalf. Thank you to the Chamber, because we have discussed it twice. There have been widespread concerns about safety in the broad sense and several suggestions have been made on the usefulness and necessity of how we can improve a number of things. The Minister and I have also indicated that we are committed to this and are happy to work with it, together with the organisation, because it is extremely important to ensure that all our men and women can work in a safe environment. We still have a great deal of work to do, but it is of course a good thing that we have the support of the Chamber as well. The Chamber has also appointed its own instrument for this, by deciding to set up a visitation committee to keep Defence sharp and to report to the Chamber on the progress of our security, both social and physical. I say this because it will also come back to the assessment of a number of motions. That is why it may be good to frame this. I'll start with the assessment of the motions. The first motion, the motion in part No. 88, tabled by Mrs Belhaj, deals with lingering matters. In my opinion, it is good to also look at what the Goebels Committee has established on this issue. The committee says that it is the intention and also important to use this as a last resort to resolve a long-term issue, especially in the case of an issue that has not yet been resolved, i.e. where a court has established a settlement agreement. We have, as I have reported to the Chamber in a letter of Parliament, passed on to the Goebels committee how we intend to implement this and also to take a broader approach. The Goebels Committee is going to put this off for those who have reported to her in mid-February. I don't know who's gonna respond to that and how. I dissuade the motion because it's very crazy to open a case if the judge has already looked into it. And here's the thing. Mrs Belhaj rightly points out that the committee states that a number of reports have been misregistered. We have said that we are taking them in. But that does not mean that if a report is misregistered, then that report has not been looked at and that no investigation has taken place. So a link is being established that I can't quite follow. In addition, I must also advise against the operative part of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-4.u20	Mrs. Belhaj, one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-4.u21	I think that the Secretary of State, even after the last debate we have had, does not understand why this is so important. There are people, before you put down all these reports and before the investigation had been...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-4.u22	Before the Secretary of State filed these reports.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-4.u23	Precisely, Mr. President, before the Secretary of State did that, it seems that people came forward and had a complaint dealt with, while the whole thing was not right. So those people may not have had a fair trial, which ultimately led to a conclusion. And if you know that...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-4.u24	If the Secretary of State knows...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-4.u25	If the Secretary of State knows that, President, the Secretary of State must first say that it is important that anyone who has yet to report to the Giebels Committee should have a chance to check whether the handling of those reports and complaints has been fair. The Secretary of State goes by that every time. I find that incredibly unimaginable. What's the trouble of holding that against the light one more time? If it all went well, it went well. People feel that they have been treated unjustly. You now have a fantastic policy, thanks to many people who have made complaints and who have made reports. What you can do for those people is to make sure that one more time their trial is fair. If the answer is yes, fine. If the answer is no, then you have the moral obligation, I say through the President, to look at it. That's what I meant about this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-4.u26	Mr President, I have indicated that I do not know who has checked in with the Gibels Committee. I don't know the reports, so I don't know what's behind it either. That is precisely why we have made a proposal. The Goebels Committee has also asked for this; it has said that it must first make a proposal, so that the committee knows how that will be reviewed. And if she thinks this is something, we will also go through with it to those who have reported to us. That is what we have done. In the operative part of the motion, it is proposed that the cases which have already been before the court should also be reopened. A judge is an independent body in the Netherlands. That is what we have been looking at, and what we have been looking at is the process. I think that is an important thing, even if I look at the operative part of the motion. Because if you've been to court, you can appeal and you're open to all kinds of remedies. I am, of course, prepared to look into what has been registered with the Gibels Committee. That is why this also goes through the Gibels Committee. It attaches great importance to its independent role. It is also important that we do not have a look at these reports. This is what we have said to the Goebels committee that we are looking at in this way. I don't know what comes out of it, Mrs. Belhaj. Perhaps there are a number of things that you say are entirely in line with. But I don't know. It is important that there is an independent chairman, with a committee, which can look at that again. But cases that have been before the judge have already been looked at independently. So someone who doesn't have any influence on all of us has already looked at that. He also checked whether it was a careful course, what went well or what went wrong. That's what he's been talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-4.u27	And now to the second motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-4.u28	Then I shall go to the second motion, including Mrs Belhaj, in part No. 89, which talks about the functioning of IVD, MID and COID. I will also assess them on behalf of the Minister. I started my story by saying that the Chamber has its own means, and that is the visitation committee. It keeps us on social and physical security and also reports to the Chamber once a year on progress. So I understand the need to have evaluations, but, one, you already have your own evaluation tool in the form of the Visitation Commission and, two, Defense itself reports on the progress of the Approach Security Plan. So you already have two instruments. I do not want us to have a stacking of evaluations. I would also ask you to give us a year. The COID starts this spring, we also need to go about our business and get to work. I have promised you, in response to questions from Mrs Bruins Slot, for example, on the model of growth, when it comes to independent researchers, to report very specifically on a number of points. But for both the moment and the fact that the Chamber has more instruments and fewer reporting moments on which we come back to this point, I advise against this motion. The Minister will refer to the motion in part No. 90, also on my behalf. Then to the motion-Christmas/Karabulut on piece No. 91. I advise against this motion. I also explained to you in my letter that as an employer we simply have a legal obligation, like any employer in the Netherlands, to have internal handling when it comes to notifications, when it comes to integrity, when it comes to complaints, when it comes to whistleblowers. As an employer in the Netherlands, you are legally obliged to do so. Following the Giebels Committee, which indicates that an internal reporting point is even preferable, but that you should also look at an external escalation point, I also said that. The Home Office is going to look at this everywhere, because this issue is not just a matter for the Defense Department. This is also a broader issue. So it's also being looked at. In addition, I would like to say to Mr Kerstens that the second-line escalation point is already there, including through your chairman. For that is what we have the National Ombudsman and the House of Whistleblowers for. And I have said that you can report to NL Confidential anonymously and that things are being pursued in the appropriate way. That's how I dissuade the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-4.u29	That's what I wanted to hear. Mrs. Karabult, thank you for joining us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-4.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and apologize for the delay, although... There is a great atmosphere on the Malieveld, I tell you. Our youth has the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-4.u31	Get there fast, I'd say. Make your question brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-4.u32	Having said that, the Secretary of State mentions a number of arguments for not setting up an independent hotline. That external escalation possibility is still being rigged and does not exist at all. NL Confidential is a collection of all kinds of topics. But my key question to the Secretary of State is what makes now, given the problems and the great distrust, that the Secretary of State thinks it can be resolved internally in this way from tomorrow? Of course, Defense has a legal duty, but you don't take that away by temporarily organising externally so that the trust can grow and so that, as the Secretary of State also says, the organization has time to change.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-4.u33	First of all, NL Confidential is a collaboration between all kinds of government organisations. You are now putting it away as a gathering, but not for nothing also municipalities, provinces and other ministry use it. I think you're really failing in that. It is right that you should point out that attention should be paid here when it comes to increasing the willingness to report. This is not just a hotline; it is much wider. It begins with the fact that you have a good person of trust in the workplace, including mental caregivers, and that you have good executives who are able to recognize and recognize signals. That is precisely why you have to make sure that culture changes from within. That means you have to get that change going from the inside, too. You are absolutely right, but that is exactly why I think you should organise such a hotline internally in a good way. On this occasion there was also a question from Mrs Bruins-Slot: make sure that it is also identifiable independently positioned, directly below the sg. This guarantees independence and makes it very clearly visible. Of course, this includes a good registration system, which Mrs Belhaj would like to focus on. That includes good and independent researchers, to ensure that. To be honest, I just wanted it to be solved with a hotline. If there was such a simple solution, I'd want it right away. But it's about and it's about and it's about and it's about and it's about and it's really taking time. We do this by positioning under the sg and also by guaranteeing independence. You already have an external escalation point, namely in the form of the House for Whistleblowers and the National Ombudsman. If you're not satisfied, you can always go there. I have told you that it is also a broader problem, so we are going to look at the results of the Goebels Committee to see if we can make it very specific. It's in BZK. In response to Mr Kerstens' question, I say that I am going to make an effort to do so more quickly. But I say this in response to Mrs Karabulut's appeal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-4.u34	Clear. We're going to proceed with motion on part no. 92. No, Mrs Karabulut; we put one question per motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-4.u35	Very briefly, then. I think that the Secretary of State is really lacking in the defence organisation when she again raises all kinds of arguments in relation to these major problems, which she herself recognises. She does this by saying that it takes time, and by not adding strange eyes to the organization, while time and time again has shown that this is necessary. I do not see any support from the Secretary of State for the fact that this would work in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-4.u36	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-4.u37	The motion calls for a temporary, external hotline.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-4.u38	We have strange eyes; these are those of the visitation committee and those of the inspection. So if you say that there are no strange eyes that keep us sharp: that is exactly what we have organised now. You will be informed about this yourself, for example by the annual planning of the IVD. You will also see that they are looking at the implementation of social security. We also have the Visitation Committee. So about the fact that we don't have strange eyes: we have absolutely strange eyes. That's a good thing, 'cause they're supposed to keep us sharp, too. But I also think it is an obligation that we ensure that this is not just a hotline, but a much broader approach. As you rightly said in the debate, this calls for more, but it starts with the organisation itself and the people who work in that organisation. They must see the signals themselves, recognise them visibly and operate with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-4.u39	Very good. The motion in part No. 92.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-4.u40	To the motion in part No. Ninety-two, I doubt. That's because Mr. Kersten uses terms like "silence contracts." And if you call for that in the motion, let me be clear: until it allows people to sign something to shut them up, we will never call, throughout the organization. That is what I have said before in debates. But there's something that matters to me. We conclude many agreements; every employer in the Netherlands does so. One of the parties, including the employee, may say: I do not want this to be made public. So then there's a confidentiality paragraph. That can be on the employee's request. So I don't know how to interpret this motion. If the call is: 'promise once again that there will be no contracts of silence', then I say so again. But I would also like to point out that there can be a difference of interpretation on the term "hush contracts'. One will say: in popular terms I call it that. But it may be a determination agreement, which states, at the request of, for example, the employee: I want this to be covered by confidentiality. Then you can qualify it as a non-disclosure contract, but that was done at the employee's explicit request. So here's my dilemma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-4.u41	I shall then try to provide the requested clarification. It is not a question of establishing agreements, for example at the end of a contract or the like. It is also not about clauses that are included at the employee's explicit request. This is something we've talked about before. If you make a report, you'll be forced to sign a contract like that. I mean the first version the Secretary of State just told us about, with which she wholeheartedly agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-4.u42	Then what's the verdict?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-4.u43	In his last sentence, Mr Kerstens referred to an example of the case of Schaarsbergen. I said that the sg indication was amended, because there were indeed misunderstandings about it. If that's your call, then this motion is superfluous, because we've already modified the sg designation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-4.u44	Then the Secretary of State and I disagree on what is unnecessary. The recital of the motion makes it clear that it is simply important that it is stated once and for all clearly that such contracts will never, ever again, be dealt with in the defence sector. This is important, especially in relation to the report of the Gibels Committee and the confidence that the Secretary of State, the Minister and the summit of the Defence Organisation are asking of the people, for example when it comes to the willingness to report. In that sense, the motion is anything but superfluous. I didn't make her up myself; I was asked to do it by people from the defence organization.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-4.u45	I have tried to explain to Mr Kerstens that I am trying to understand him. I would ask him to hold the motion and look at the wordings. I'm trying to understand exactly where the stinger is. I have also explained to him that I also pronounce the operative part here, but I am trying to focus on precisely where the problem is. I therefore ask Mr Kerstens to hold the motion. Let's see what he means. Maybe we're very close together. I will at least take over his operative part, but I would like to avoid that we have different images in the implementation of this motion, because that would be a pity.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-4.u46	I understand that, Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-4.u47	At the request of Mr Kerstens, I propose his motion (35000-X, No. 92). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-4.u48	Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 93 which I have just mentioned in an interrupting debate with Mrs Karabulut. This motion is similar to the motion in part No. 91. That would dissuade the motion for the same reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-4.u49	Mr Kerstens, short and pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-4.u50	Yes, short and pointy, as you know me, Mr. Chairman. The motion is not the same as the motion in part No. 91. I would prefer, along with Mrs Karabulut and many other people, that there should be a truly independent hotline outside of Defense, especially for the three-year term. This motion refers to what the Secretary of State himself said in response to the suggestions and recommendations made by the Giebels Committee. The recommendation is that, if you want to keep the procedure internal, at least an external second step should be taken. I have tabled two motions for resolutions on this matter. I'll only do them in one go, because I won't have to come back in a minute. One motion calls on the Secretary of State, because Home Affairs is in the lead and we have read that people are thinking about it but we don't know when and if that's going to happen, to go and pull it like a madman. That's what I'm talking about: guys, we have every interest in getting that escalation step out of our own organization. That is the last motion I have tabled. This motion is about the following. If you say that you agree with the importance of that second step outside the defence organisation, but you also know that that might take a while, then take that second step for the time being. Form it yourself outside the organization. The Secretary of State may choose where she chooses to do so. I don't really think NL-Alert is a solution...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-4.u51	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-4.u52	... because on the questions I asked, the Secretary of State said: yes, they do nothing with it. I want something to happen to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-4.u53	It's NL Confidential. NL-Alert is another medium, before misunderstandings arise. Mr Kerstens also points out that there is an escalation, even at the moment. That is the Ombudsman and that is the House for whistleblowers. That's a second-line escalation possibility. There are also some problems with these organisations. To focus now on a third possibility, in addition to the House for whistleblowers and the Ombudsman, pending a proper investigation by BZK on our behalf all of us to the specific supplement that is still necessary, also in relation to the Ombudsman and the House for whistleblowers... I would really like to put the energy into making sure that on the one hand we get the COID and the hotline in order. On the other hand, in the meantime, we can make sure that we have a good investigation. We will also ensure that the House functions properly for whistleblowers and the Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-4.u54	What does that mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-4.u55	That's how I dissuade the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-4.u56	Does that apply to the motion in part No. 93 and the motion in part No. 94?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-4.u57	I would like to comment on the motion for a resolution on item No. 94. It is a little strange that the government is being called upon to ask one more cabinet member to speed up. It's about the Home Secretary. I do agree with Mr Kerstens that we need to get this done quickly. So I find this call a little weird. I will work for a speedy outcome, but this lies with the Minister of the Interior. I will convey your message, and I will be following it, but I would ask you to hold this motion. If you don't think it's gonna happen soon enough, you can file the motion with the Home Office. That is where the responsibility lies for its implementation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-4.u58	A request to you, Mr. Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-4.u59	We're gonna do the last one anyway. Now that the Secretary of State says that she is eager to act as a defence officer in the knowledge that another ministry is ultimately in the lead, I insist that the motion should not be held. I want to put her to the vote here. We will do the same in the Home Office. Not only is the Secretary of State after it, but so is the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-4.u60	Thank you. Then I'd like the Secretary of State's opinion on the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-4.u61	I've told you how to interpret the motion and how I'm gonna go along with it. I find it a little crazy to ask the government to call on its own minister, who is also part of that government. I'm dissuading the motion, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-4.u62	Thank you. Then we will listen to the Minister for her judgment on the motion in part No. 90.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-4.u63	Thank you very much, Mr President. I think it is good to say again here that we regard the whole area of security as a major responsibility. Fortunately, we are doing this together with the members of the Chamber. We also see that it is a difficult task. We are aware that we cannot always prevent everything, but what we can prevent must be prevented. That's how we're in it. Actually, that's been going on since we got here. This means that we continue to pay attention to safety from the top every day and in every way. That's what I was gonna say. The general consultation took place in two phases. You only cited the second term. Yes, it was in January. For Christmas, an extensive first term was held on these subjects, but we could not conclude them at that time. This also indicates that we are all convinced of the importance of the security of our men and women in the defence sector. Then the motion to part No. 90 by Mrs Belhaj. First of all, I would like to point out to Mrs Belhaj that the MID is a hotline. The motion is about objective and independent investigation. The hotline does not conduct an investigation but only leads the complaints. That is good to know, given what is stated in the first observation. I would like to say that I really have no doubt about the independence of the institutions mentioned, neither of the MID, nor of the COID and nor of the IVD. I would like to make that very clear. What Mrs Belhaj writes in her two requests is simply settled. We've adapted the sg directions to independence. The lyrics are all set to that. We've arranged for independence. Commanders never put people involved in investigations. I also refer to the four-eyed principle et cetera. The inspection works exactly the same as all national inspections, i.e. according to the rules laid down for the national inspections. There is no national inspection I doubt when it comes to independence and so on. This is also covered by the national inspection scheme. This motion is therefore superfluous and I would like to discourage it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-4.u64	Thank you. In 15 seconds, I'm gonna have to start the next VAO. If you can keep it pointy, Mrs. Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-4.u65	Mr President, that's how you know me. I hear what the Minister says. Twelve years ago, the Staal Committee concluded that these hotlines had to be put in place, but something has changed in the years to come. I think it is important for the Chamber to give its opinion. For example, when it comes to the IVD, you indicate that there is independence. But what if people who have been responsible for policy in the Ministry of Defence for 25 years work there? That is why I think it is important to record it again, so that there can never be a misunderstanding about independence and objectivity as far as the Chamber is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-4.u66	Other national inspections also involve people who have been involved in policy-making in the areas where they work. In fact, I find it inappropriate to talk about people in this case; that is what it is all about in this case. Independence is regulated in the national inspection system. The people who work there have to stick to that, too. I have no reason to doubt anyone who works at our state inspection. It is settled and therefore the motion is superfluous. Mr. Chairman. We stand before our people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-07-tweedekamer-4.u67	Thank you. So far. We shall vote on the motions on Tuesday. I'm gonna suspend for a few minutes and then we're gonna go over the Participation Act.
