ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u1	I now give the floor to Mr Markuszower, on behalf of the PVV, for his questions on the escape of a tbser from the Pompecliniek in Nijmegen. I call Mr Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's crisis, tbs crisis, and this minister is responsible for that. The Netherlands is at risk because of this minister and his labster policy. The Minister has his people say that life-threatening criminals are allowed to go on leave, to cycle freely, to travel by train, to hang around primary schools, playgrounds and shopping centres, while those criminals, the most dangerous and disturbed child molesters and women killers in the Netherlands, not on the streets, do not belong in society, because in the clinic they can make fewer victims. They belong in jail. That's what the PVV has been saying for years, but now the cesspool is opening. Brave whistleblowers, people who work in the TBs clinics, explain today why the TBs are so dangerous to the Netherlands. They're explaining to me, Minister, that you've been fooling around with those TBs bobos, those TBs managers for years now. 'Cause those tbs-criminals are watching child pornography, they're gonna continue to rape, rape, and commit violence. All during their stay in the tbs and/or during their leave. But those lying managers cover up all those crimes, and corrupt prosecutors refuse to prosecute. Those tbs managers say those life-threatening paedophiles and killers can just go on leave. So the minister sends ticking time bombs at us, at our women and at our children. The minister says it's safe and under control, but he's joking. The Minister is trying to send us into the woods with lists, figures and reports and to calm us to sleep. But I hope the Netherlands will not fall for that anymore today. Those lists, figures and reports from the minister are simply false and after today nothing is worth anything. So far, the Minister has refused to withdraw all engagements. After today's whistleblower testimonies, can the Minister at least undertake to withdraw immediately all the engagements of all the TBs criminals?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mr. Chairman. Over the last few weeks and over the last few days, and again today, there has been a great deal of coverage in a specific newspaper on TBs, including following an withdrawal from the Pompecliniek and following this morning by a number of employees of the Hoeve Boschoord who, although anonymously, have made a number of allegations. Let me say this about it. Tbs makes the Netherlands safer. Because without treatment people get out on the street and the chance that they commit serious facts is many times greater. Part of TBs is that prisoners go on leave. It can't just happen. In fact, this needs to be looked at internally by all kinds of experts and then tested externally. That means someone doesn't go on leave if there's a big danger. We know that sometimes there are withdrawals when there is leave. Every year there are about 70,000 leave movements and about 30 to 50 withdrawals. That is not huge at all, but still enough to fill a newspaper every week. I see the Pompeclinic has taken immediate action. It has been said that in a short time there have been three in a row; we are taking additional measures, even next week. They also asked for an external investigation of what is going on here and whether something is going on. I'll ask the inspection to validate that investigation. As far as Boschoord is concerned, this morning I had contact with the head of the clinic. He says he can't be recognized in any of the allegations made in the newspaper. It's hard for me to judge it myself, because it's about anonymous sources. But they were there themselves, and we were pretty quick to agree on that, convinced that having the inspection visit is the only way to test it: "We have nothing to hide. The inspection is more than welcome to look into our systems and talk to our employees. Please come by, because we want this out of the world as soon as possible." That seems to me to be a very sensible line to make sure that something is going on here or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u5	It is almost disturbing what soothing words the Minister uses. He uses the euphemism of withdrawal. "Distraction" simply implies "I say this so that the Netherlands knows for a moment that a dangerous sex offender does not come back from leave, escapes his guidance and has been lost for five days now." The Minister again embraces this whole policy of tbs and says that tbs makes the Netherlands safe. The truth is that after the testimonies in today's newspaper, which the minister moves away as anonymous incident detectors and actually covers up under the carpet, the minister can no longer maintain that he can trust the reports he receives, stating that people are ready for leave, reports on the basis of which he draws the conclusions that tbs will make the Netherlands safe. You're just being lied to, Minister, and you're going along with those miserable and lying tbs managers, bobos and psychologists. The Netherlands really deserves a minister who will stand for the safety of the Dutch and who will not stand up for the freedoms of all those scary rapists and murderers. So I ask the Minister once again whether he is going to be able to come back to that rapist who is still out there, at least now, to indicate whether he is taking more action, not only at those two clinics that are now in the news, but at all the clinics in the Netherlands. Because there's a TBS system crisis and you're mucking it all away.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u6	I hear Mr Markuszower, who has already drawn his conclusions on a number of points. I think it is very important that if there have been incidents, and there have been incidents, we take them seriously, we look at what has happened and what you can learn from them. At the same time, we all know that a TBS system will never exist without incidents or withdrawals. We just have to be honest about that, too. If you don't want to do that anymore, we need to stop tbs. Then people just go into society without treatment after a prison sentence and then we know that much bigger accidents happen. That's the honest story. I do think there should be serious consideration of incidents. That means independent research. This is happening both in the Pompeclinic and in the Hoeve Boschoord. On this morning's occasion, I also think that if the things suggested on the basis of anonymous sources appear to be true in the newspaper, it is extremely bad and extremely serious. But I think it's important to make sure it's true. That's exactly what we're doing now. That's why we're sending in the inspection.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u7	Finally, Mr Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u8	The Minister must withdraw the engagements as long as all the investigations he has now are ongoing. By the way, I understand that this is only at two clinics, but it has to be at all clinics in the Netherlands. As long as these investigations are ongoing, the Minister must at least withdraw his leave. I would also like to know from the Minister when the child rapist who has been around the Netherlands for five days will be arrested. Has progress been made already?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u9	The police and the D.A.'s office are busy with the latter. You saw yesterday's APB that went out. I hope, of course, that he'll be arrested soon and brought back to rehab. At the moment, I do not see any reason for the termination of leave, especially because there is a system in which not only a clinic itself but also experts outside check whether it is justified for someone to go on leave, and because the consequences of these incidents are considered what is more necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u10	Thank you, Mr. Markuszower. Mrs. Kuik on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u11	It's often about sex offenders and serious violent crimes. The TBS system naturally falls or stands with a good risk analysis, so employees can do treatments in a responsible way. If there seems to be a cover-up culture now, of not being able to report it, then we have a problem. Job Knoester, president of the Association of TBS Lawyers, says: this is not an incident; you can see this culture on all institutions. My question is therefore: is the Minister prepared to look at all the institutions to see if there is a feeling that things cannot be reported and whether there is pressure to carry out non-complete treatments? That's what I'd like to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u12	As you know, there is a broader investigation of the inspection which looks, among other things, at these kinds of elements. That's more of a system investigation. So it's good to take that with you. I'm a little freaked out by Job Knoester's statement. If he thinks that's concrete, I'd like to call it man and horse. If that plays at a specific clinic, I'd like to hear it, because we can do something with it. I think it would be very bad if this were to happen, as you do. There are now concrete allegations towards one specific clinic, which itself says: we do not recognize that. Also my people at the Ministry say: we never have problems when it comes to reporting incidents and applying for leave at this clinic. We do know there are tensions around this clinic. It used to be an institution for the mentally handicapped and it must now become a TBS institution. That's not always easy. That also requires some of the staff. The institution has been under enhanced supervision for a long time. Last year's inspection said 'the basis is back on track', but I think it is very good that, as a result of what De Telegraaf publishes, there is another check to see if it is all right there. And that has to prove to be the case. It may then be said that something is really going on. Then we must indeed intervene and take steps. It may also be the case that the inspection takes a different view. My point here is that I think we should talk on the basis of the facts and not on the basis of what anonymous sources are suggesting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u13	We, as 50PLUS, are of course very pleased that the Minister has now also announced that there will finally be a test with ankle straps. We have asked for this for a very long time. That test will start on 1 December and last for two years. My question is not cynical, but it sounds cynical: there is so much going on in this area in a year's time, is that trial necessary for so long? Couldn't that be shorter? We would be able to draw the consequences sooner, and then we would be able to secure society even better.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u14	I'm excited about that. Mr Krol himself suggested that we take a look at that. There is great enthusiasm among institutions to participate. I believe that five of the seven institutions are participating. I'm gonna try to get the other two to join us. And then it doesn't really matter very much whether that pilot lasts one, two or three years, because during those two years there is already working with ankle bracelets and if it is a success, it will be extended afterwards. I hope it's a success. I think it is a good thing that we have said sometime now: after two years we will see if it will lead to fewer withdrawals, because that is ultimately the goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u15	But the question was whether we could do it sooner.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u16	Yes, and I heard the minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u17	No, don't repeat!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u18	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u19	I know you guys. Then another question will be asked. It's just a clarification of what you meant.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u20	If we cut that pilot short, it's harder to say anything about whether it's had a positive effect. But if you let the pilot last a little longer, then there will be longer work with those ankle bracelets and then we can say more about whether it worked. If that's the case, we'll go through with it. I think we're pretty much on the same page.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u21	It is good that the Minister has the facts investigated behind the anonymous allegations from the clinics, but my question is about a completely different fact. We already know that fact, namely that last Friday a proven child rapist, someone who fornicated with children, the worst thing that could happen to you as a parent, fled. What surprises me is that it has to be so long before the photograph of such a person is released. That is why I am asking the cabinet, through this Minister, I am also addressing Minister Grapperhaus, who is the normal way of doing things when such a dangerous person walks away. How long should it take to publish such a picture?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u22	This is always a matter for the police and the judiciary, who are advised by the clinic. What this gentleman has on his hands is terrible, but at the same time the assessment of the clinic and the Public Prosecutor is that there is no acute risk for this person. His risk of recidivism was assessed as low. This is an explanation why in one case the identity is quickly revealed and why in the other case it takes a little longer, or sometimes it doesn't even happen at all because other ways of tracking such a person are also being looked at. For example, family can be used to see if contact can be made.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u23	Mrs Kuik's second question on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u24	Yeah, 'cause I'm a little worried we're gonna be back here tomorrow. It is a patchwork of different settings. Some have been under enhanced supervision. Then there are employees again who express themselves. At the same time, no one feels free to really indicate what is happening now. The inspection is conducting an investigation, but can people now report anonymously? You call Job Knoester, but of course there are a lot of people working in these different institutions. Where do we give all these signals that are there, the unrest that employees feel and the problems that these employees themselves face, a stage so that we can work on real solutions instead of doing incident and crisis policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u25	I have no illusions about incidents. We can have a debate here every week about a withdrawal, because of which we have about 30 to 50 per year. That's about one a week. Whatever you say. I would like to come and give the answers, but it is inherent in the system as it is. I can't make it prettier. The number is not increasing or decreasing. But with all the tbs we have, with 70,000 leave movements, we know that there is a withdrawal about 30 to 50 times a year. I think your point is another: what is happening within the institutions? They're under pressure, even if you look at the labour market. It's just complicated to fill out vacancies right now. The inspection is currently investigating this. There can always be reported to the inspection, I say here. But if staff feels unsafe or has a problem, it is best to make that known within their own organisation. Eventually, it has to be solved there. If you run into all kinds of obstacles or find no answer, there is always the way to the inspection. She also has regular supervision.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u26	Thank you.
