ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-2.u1	As usual, we shall begin oral Question Time on Tuesday. I give the floor to Mr Paternotte on behalf of D66 for his question to the Minister of Justice and Security on the disruption of the Kick Out Black Piet action group meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. We have a number of beautiful traditions in the Netherlands, namely the tradition of the Sinterklaas Festival and the tradition that you stay away from each other with your paws. Last Friday, the school where Kick Out Black Piet met was crowned. There were fools who came in with fireworks and bats and cars were beaten short and small. It is un-Dutch to take away their right to meetings with intimidation and violence. But it's not the first time it's been a great mistake. Last year protesters were hit with eggs, racist slogans were scanned and protesters were attacked on the Erasmus Bridge. All meant to shut them up. In eight cities the aggression already won it before. That's where the demonstrations were banned. Yesterday, a man with a bomb belt walked through The Hague to achieve the same goal. Mr. Chairman. Demonstrating and gathering his rights, not favors. Last year, the Prime Minister took far too long to make that clear. He was talking about extremists for and against. As far as I am concerned, extremists are the people who throw beer cans, who beat cars short and small and want to shut people up. The Prime Minister even called at the time not to demonstrate at all. There's a great opportunity here for him to open his mouth. It's incredibly unfortunate that he can't be here right now to do that. The Minister has already renounced it. I ask him here, in this Chamber, to condemn this intimidation and this violence on behalf of the entire cabinet. I ask him to distance himself from the Prime Minister's suggestion not to demonstrate for a few weeks. Above all, I ask him to promise and guarantee that next Saturday will be different and that the right to freedom of expression in the Netherlands, of opponents and of opponents, will be guaranteed and protected. I'm asking him how he's gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-2.u3	I shall now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-2.u4	Mr. Chairman. We know in the Netherlands the freedom of expression and the freedom of association and assembly. These are Dutch fundamental rights, which we must not interfere with. Using violence to strengthen your opinion or intimidate another when he or she expresses his or her opinion is unacceptable at all times. Using violence is a crime. I think I have made it clear once again how the cabinet views this. Then there is the question of the comments made by the Prime Minister last year. I think that Mr Paternotte also knows that those remarks were more related to: let's have a beautiful time of traditions, November, December, Santa Claus, Christmas, my birthday, but that was last week's spending together in a good way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-2.u5	Those aren't answers to my questions. I am also concerned when I hear the Minister in this way, because the Prime Minister's statements last year went a long way further. He said, "Let's not demonstrate for a few weeks." After the protesters were charmed, intimidated and harassed, after demonstrations were forbidden, he said he had nothing to do with extremists, for or against. Who are the extremists here? Will the Minister ensure that the right of demonstration will be guaranteed next Saturday? How's he gonna do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-2.u6	Mr. Chairman. Let me make one thing clear: public order is a matter of local authority. That's how we set it up in the Netherlands. I think that is very healthy in a democracy like ours that you do not put it all down with the Minister of Justice and Security but that mayors together with the police chiefs and the prosecutors in their congregation, in their region, decide what happens. I would like to say out loud that, also in view of the way things have been in recent history, I have every confidence that the Dutch public administration, embodied in those authority triangles with the mayor in front, is really doing this in a really good way. However, I would like to stress to Mr Paternotte that I have issued a short text which should not be misunderstood that I totally reject it if people do not just debate with each other. It is indeed a very nice tradition in our country since about the year 1000, when the poldering started here, but let me talk about it another time. Really, I want to make it very clear to Mr Paternotte that I strongly reject any form of violence aimed at restricting the fundamental rights of others. And that is where the police will always do their job, as has also been shown recently.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-2.u7	I'm worried about this anyway. I understand, of course, the story about the municipalities, the local authority and the difficult considerations that mayors sometimes have to make. The Ombudsman has written a solid report in which he makes it clear that too often too often the right of demonstration is being treated too cramped and that too many demonstrations are being banned. Last year we saw eight demonstrations being banned and protesters being attacked. The year before, a highway was blocked, banning a demonstration. And then the minister here says: it's up to local authority. This is the minister who deals with the rule of law. Therefore, once again, do I understand that you are not going to do anything extra to ensure that this right of demonstration does exist next Saturday? Can you tell us in which municipalities demonstrations are now prohibited and are you prepared, as the Ombudsman asked, to make an effort to get them off the table?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-2.u8	I really did answer this question. I have explained that this is a competence of local government, local authority, and I have every confidence that local government will do so in a balanced manner. As we always do in relation to major events, my ministry will of course also be involved in the post-evaluation process to check how things went, but I must stress that this is precisely a competence and therefore also a freedom that lies with local government.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-2.u9	It lies with the public administration and they do indeed have to make a decision. They often say: we cannot do that because the pressure, the threat, the intimidation, the extremism of the pro-Black Piet movement is such that we must then ban demonstrations. Then you can do two things. Then you can say: that is a pity and perhaps we should restrict the right of demonstration at all; Mr Dijkhoff made that suggestion last year. Or you say as a minister guarding the rule of law: we have a national police, we have a mobile unit, I am going to insist that the right of demonstration is protected and that it cannot be violated by extremists who are trying to silence people with violence. What does the Minister choose?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-2.u10	I'm gonna say it again. Here I am not the one who has the authority, who has the responsibility, who has the authority. I keep repeating it as a kind of chorus: that really is on the local level and that's a good thing, because then you can also act according to the circumstances. Last year in Zaanstad during the entrance was also very well deployed by the local directors, so the entry there was done in a good, quiet way. I'm here to make sure that the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office do their job in a high quality manner, but the preparation of policies on whether or not certain demonstrations is not up to me, and that's a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-2.u11	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Paternotte. Then I will go to Mr Van den Berge on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-2.u12	I think the Minister's answer is a little too easy. This minister is systemically responsible for the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office and he is responsible for our security. Last weekend we saw a terrible attack against Kick Out Zwarte Piet here in The Hague. My question to the Minister is a very simple one. As a result of this attack, what has the Minister done to support municipalities, police and other competent authorities in guaranteeing peaceful Sinterklaas treks and peaceful demonstrations over the next few days and next weekend?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-2.u13	It is perfectly logical and also common practice for municipalities to ask for extra police deployment in the context of an event or a demonstration that will take place, for example, to look at the content. If that is true, then that is true. That happens in a good way. I am not going into the matter myself, because it is now, of course, under investigation. But the police acted immediately last Saturday. I would also like to emphasise that the police do so regardless of the intention, the person or the organisation. If people are intimidated or threatened and faced with violence, the police will ensure that they are quickly on the ground.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-2.u14	Violence is not part of our democracy. We need to take action against that. But what we do not need is demagogy and extremism. A group leader of D66 stated last week that during that demonstration in Scheveningen the Hitler greetings were given. That's a lie. And now we've got Mr. Paternotte saying, last Friday, at that squat of that scum, his people were pounded, fireworks were thrown, bats were used, people were beaten up and his cars destroyed. Mr President, why? I have the police report here. All we know is that there's been a banging on a door. All we know is that a picture was posted on Facebook.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-2.u15	And the question is, Mr. Bosman?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-2.u16	Where are the eyewitnesses? Where are the footage? Everyone's got a call in their hand. Where are the fireworks?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-2.u17	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-2.u18	Why aren't there any police reports?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-2.u19	The Minister!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-2.u20	Why wasn't there even a mention on P2000?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-2.u21	The Minister! Mr. Bosma!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-2.u22	Why isn't there a call from the police for witnesses?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-2.u23	If this is about the individual issue last Saturday, your Chamber will know that I cannot and will not say anything about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-2.u24	Violence is always unacceptable, especially when it comes to freedom of speech. Whether you agree with it or not, I'm gonna say the same way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-2.u25	Which way?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-2.u26	Heading towards the PVV side. But my question is very specific. I cannot escape the impression that we are now hiding behind the events of last weekend, while, of course, the concerns are much greater. Everyone in The Hague is wondering...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-2.u27	And now the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-2.u28	And everyone in the country is wondering whether we can still celebrate safe passages, whether we can still express our opinion in a safe way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-2.u29	The question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-2.u30	My question is: is there enough capacity in the police? If so, how can people think they should protect themselves because they cannot rely on the capacity of the police?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-2.u31	Just so we're clear, the questioners have about four minutes together. Additional questions should be asked within 30 seconds. All MPs know that. I can tell everyone's going over that. Just a reminder. It's meant for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-2.u32	Mr President, I will reply briefly but forcefully. In last Saturday's case, where I say for the sake of clarity that I cannot comment on the follow-up, a Minister for Justice and Security should not do so, the police were at least very quickly on the ground. I do not recognize that there would be too little capacity in this respect. Finally, I would like to stress that everyone in the Netherlands must feel completely safe to express their opinion. But once again, that doesn't include violence. That is what Mrs Kuik started, and I think that is a question that deserves an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-2.u33	The Minister is very businesslike and it is in principle true that he does not have to make statements when the case is under the police. But we do see a difference, because when animal rights activists sat in a stable to bring out the images of what is going on there, the minister called it "extremism." Then he said, "I am so sorry for the farmers, I am going there to show support." We are dealing here with a matter of physical threat to people who were in a meeting. The Minister has not yet called it extremism and he has not yet said: 'I am going to support those people who were the victims of this violence'.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-2.u34	And the question is, Mrs. Ouwehand?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-2.u35	The question is whether the Minister is prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-2.u36	But then we still have to put the history right. In your Chamber, in the debate that took place at the end of May following an oral question on this subject, I said in general terms: 'direction, taking the law into its own hands should not belong in our society'. That was because of the barn occupation in Boxtel. I also made it clear that I believe that 67 or 69 people had been arrested, so I did not go into that further, because that case was under the Public Prosecutor's Office. Indeed, I went to see the farmer in Boxtel. That's what my colleague Dekker and I both do. We have regular conversations with victims of certain criminal offences. That does not mean anything about our judgment on the case or about the perpetrators, but I also think that it is part of Justice and Security that we should also pay personal attention to the people who are harmed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-2.u37	Mr. Paternotte. Oh, Mrs. Ouwehand, second question, I didn't know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-2.u38	It is nice that the Minister pays attention to victims, but I asked him to visit these people from Kick Out Zwarte Piet, who sat there in a meeting and had fireworks thrown at him. That's question one. The second question. I think, apart from condemning and mentioning what is criminal in the Netherlands, I am glad that the police are on top of it, that the cabinet should also confess colour. Why doesn't the cabinet choose to de-escalate and simply say: 'Dear people, traditions change with time', we stand for an adjustment, so that sinterklaas becomes a feast for all children and that unintended or unconscious racist and discriminatory elements are simply taken out?' That's what the Cabinet should do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-2.u39	It has been said many times by the cabinet: the discussion on this is a social debate. We should not impose what needs to be found or thought in a discussion about such a tradition as government.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-2.u40	Mr. Paternotte. I am afraid, Mrs Ouwehand, that it will remain here, because it is oral Question Time. Let me see if the Minister has anything to add to his last remarks regarding the reply to Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-2.u41	No, I have nothing to add. I thought I'd given you an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-2.u42	Then it stops. Mr Paternotte on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-2.u43	It is a shame how Mr Bosma has just dismissed an attack on a peaceful assembly like 'knocking on the door'. We've all seen how that door is almost destroyed. We've seen those cars that were beaten short and small. Then Geert Wilders says first of all that he finds the whining and now Mr Bosma does the same. I find it outrageous. I also have a question for the Minister. Several experts indicate that there is radicalisation in the pro-Black Piet movement. Does he insist on that, and what does he intend to do with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-2.u44	I can say that this is a subject of concern to my ministry. Let's at least make that clear. It has previously been discussed in the so-called DTN, the Threat Picture of Terrorism Netherlands. This will undoubtedly be the subject of further attention at the next Threat Picture of Terrorism The Netherlands, which will appear in some time's time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-2.u45	Mr. Chairman. What are we doing in this country? We have a children's party, a wonderful party for every child! The Minister remembers: with wet hair singing in front of the television screen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-2.u46	It's been a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-2.u47	A long time ago, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-2.u48	And that is now under threat! Demonstrators are threatened. There's even been a threat of an attack. Really, what are we doing in this country? I can only ask the Minister to provide sufficient capacity. Ensure adequate capacity and prevent violence in the coming days and weeks; ensure that people's fundamental rights are respected, but above all ensure capacity for this children's feast to continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-2.u49	This is actually a call. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-2.u50	The first part of the call is very appealing to me. Even the most mean sintering-class poems I've always endured, with or without her. Of course, when municipalities call for extra police deployment, I am in favour of taking a good look at it and getting on with it in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-2.u51	Mr. Chairman. A little in line with Mr Van Raak's remark, but certainly in the future with Mrs Kikken's question: a lot of police deployment at sintering class. We're getting old and new. Every other week the Malieveld is full of protesters and every time the police are there. I'm worried about that. I am concerned about whether there is sufficient capacity and I can hardly imagine that the Minister does not share that concern with me. I wonder whether we should somehow come to the limit of what that commitment is. For example, in Rotterdam the number of hours for events has been reduced. It is a difficult subject, but does the Minister see any possibilities there?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-2.u52	I start by saying very loudly that I share Mr Van Dam's concern about police capacity. I've shared that problem with your Chamber more often, especially with your permanent Chambers Committee. You will not get the structural reinforcement of the police funded by this cabinet from one day to the next. Now you have read that I have been given extra money for even more reinforcement and so on, but that has not been settled overnight. I share Mr Van Dam's concern that we are imposing enormous burdens on the police, who are already working so hard. The views expressed by Mr Van Dam on this matter are certainly good enough to discuss with each other in a smaller context. I want to say that out loud here, because we really need to see how we deal with certain things. I have sometimes raised the question of whether we should indeed go to a society where the police have to check for the use of pills and the like at a very large number of events. These are all questions that we will have to discuss with each other. It's a difficult discussion, but we have to have him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-2.u53	Mr. Chairman. It has almost become a tradition that we start the discussion about the sinterklaasfest in mid-November. I remember very well the Prime Minister said last year: we should have that discussion, but not at the sintering-class party. I would actually like to ask this Minister, since the government speaks with one voice, what has happened in recent months to cause this kind of scenes. Because here, fundamental rights are under pressure. Freedom of association and freedom of assembly are under pressure here. I ask this Minister what he has done in recent months to prevent these escalations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-2.u54	Within the limits of my own portfolio, I have talked to the police and the Public Prosecutor about a number of matters, not only with your Chamber, but also with the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office. I understand that you say: I would like to know what that discussion was like in the cabinet. Then I'll tell your room a letter about that. I cannot answer that very accurately at this time, I must confess.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-2.u55	Mr. Chairman. The Minister's commitment to send the Chamber a letter describing the commitment made over the last few months to de-escalating, I think is important and I note it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-2.u56	Thank you. Mrs Kuik for her second supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-2.u57	Mr. Chairman. There is one thing in common about a drug party and a sintering cheese party, namely the use of pills, but one party is about real pills and the other is about pepper nuts. I make this remark because I am a little bit worse. Mr Van Dam rightly points out that we are concerned that all this is not going to degenerate in the demonstrations and entrances, whether there is sufficient capacity and whether people are not going to play their own judge. However, everything is swept a bit under the carpet, in the vein of: it is not a serious problem. In doing so, the Minister does not do justice to the subject and the widespread unrest in society. I want to be able to feel today that the Minister understands this problem and that he is serious about it. I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-2.u58	Mr. Chairman. That did not come across well, because I have just started by explaining very briefly that it is unacceptable for people to express their opinions by force. That is the most important point. Once again, the debate on a subject, whether it is the Sinterklaas celebration or Easter, is all very well, but I am in favour of combating the excesses. And that's what I told you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-2.u59	Mr Kuzu had another question, but he was no longer allowed to ask it, because he had run out of questions. The Minister has promised the Chamber a letter. Can that letter reach the Chamber for budgetary treatment? Do you remember?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-2.u60	Well, the letter isn't so much about Justice and Security. The question is above all what the cabinet has done about this in the various departments. I cannot guarantee that I will have that letter completed within a week, apart from the fact that it is not so much my budget as that of VWS, SZW and OCW, because those are the departments that play the most important role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-2.u61	And that letter would we about...?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-2.u62	There will be at the end of this month.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-tweedekamer-2.u63	Okay, then that's noted. Thank you.
