ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u1	The next item is the debate on the European summit on EU jobs. I would like to welcome the Prime Minister. I give the floor to Mrs Leijten on behalf of the SP as the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. I've caught a bit of a thick eye. That's not because I had a fight with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u3	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u4	Nor was it because I had a fight with the Prime Minister or Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u5	What's going on?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u6	I lost a struggle with a wasp and got an allergic reaction to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u7	I will not remove this from your speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u8	It's okay. It's about a fat eye. If it didn't have makeup on it, it might be a bit of a black eye, too. We are having a debate here on appointments within the European Union. There have also been many struggles on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u9	Oh, it's a bridge.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u10	We haven't seen blue eyes, but perhaps the Netherlands has caught two blue eyes. It actually didn't look good at the end of June, on the dollstop, which ran for three days. We haven't actually had a debate about it in advance because the Prime Minister always says: difficult, difficult, I can't say anything; I don't want to waste the opportunity by sharing with the controller here in Parliament what the stakes are. Then you think that afterward you get a clear insight into what has happened, into what strategic decisions have been made. But unfortunately... What did we see? Room in, ties on, hall out, still ties on; but there were also discussions without ties. There would then be another meeting and a press statement at 2 p.m., at 3 p.m., at 4 p.m., at 6 p.m., but then it would still be 8 p.m. But in the end, they got there anyway. Oh yes, and what was of course so exciting was that Timmermans would become the new chief of the European Union, and yet not again. Then came the foursome: Mrs Von der Leyen, Mr Michel, Mr Borrell Fontelles and Mrs Lagarde. An end to the spitzen candidates. An end to the European Parliament, which says: we are talking about appointments. Isn't that right? Because I heard Mrs von der Leyen say in the European Parliament on 16 July that she and the European Parliament are going to refine the spitzen candidacy. That's not in line with what we agreed on here, is it? The intention was, as we read in the summit report, that Timmermans and Vestager, now European Commissioners, would sit at the first rank of the new European Commission. Is this still a plan or is this going to happen? Yesterday, Mrs. Von der Leyen was visiting you. Can you tell us a little more? And when it comes to this: will Mr Timmermans be a Dutch Commissioner or the European Commissioner for Social Democrats? Because that's how he went into the elections: he was going to do it for the Social Democrats. Can the Prime Minister include me in the question when he became the candidate for the Netherlands? Because the Prime Minister never really wanted to say anything about that. This has not only the SP, but several parties have asked for this on several occasions. How does the Prime Minister look back on Mr Timmermans' Euro-Commissionership over the past five years? Have there been fewer rules? What was it strong in? Is the Netherlands well represented? And what does that mean for the new choice? Or are we a bit for a fulfilled fact, because that was the name from the Netherlands in the discussion? If that is the case, then I think the Prime Minister should at least say so. There were more jobs this summer. Mr Dijsselbloem was the candidate on behalf of the Netherlands for the top job at the IMF. I have put questions to the Minister of Finance about this. On 12 July it was decided by the cabinet that he was the candidate. I asked what procedure was used, but I am not getting any answers. Has Mr Dijsselbloem reported himself or has he been asked? I think that is relevant, because he also has another important role, namely chairman of the Security Research Council. I think he's in a good place there, but if he can just get out of there, what does that mean for that council? He didn't end up doing it. We didn't get a report on that. We didn't even get the announcement from that summit. We haven't been able to say anything. I find that strange, because the Netherlands presents itself there with a serious candidate. Even if we were recessive, we should be informed about this in principle. I have asked in my parliamentary questions who has been informed, because I can imagine that the PvdA Group has been informed. Of course, that also makes sense, because it has been a PvdA executive. But why hasn't the whole Chamber been informed in the same way? If I ask that afterwards, I won't get any answers. So my question is actually: can the Prime Minister ensure that if he doesn't want to say so much about the candidates in advance and about how he wants to do it, he will take the Chamber in afterwards? Because if we do not think that has gone well, then we in the Chamber can decide that this will have to be changed in future. I come to my final question, Mr President, because I see that you have said that I must conclude. My question is: did the Netherlands get two blue eyes with the appointments of persons who first did, then just did and then didn't? We heard before the summer of the Clingendael Institute that we would be effective in Europe, but we can see that the two main candidates from the Netherlands did not make it. How exactly does the Prime Minister look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u11	Thank you very much, Mrs Leijten. I now give the floor to Mr Verhoeven. If Mrs Leijten has a black eye, I have to look closely at whether Mr Verhoeven does not have a black eye.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u12	Mr. Chairman. Of course, I often respond to Mrs Leijten as if she were stabbed by a wasp, but I wish her every success in restoring this allergic reaction, because it is, of course, very annoying that she should engage in the debate with a thick eye. Mr. Chairman. It was an exciting time in Brussels last summer. Europe's top jobs are indeed divided. Mrs Von der Leyen will be the new President of the Commission, the Belgian Charles Michel will be the President of the European Council and the French Christine Lagarde will be the President of the ECB. All this has been decided by the Member States, but what role do Europeans have in this? It is well known that for years D66 has been advocating a more democratic and political Union, in which, for example, we in the Netherlands could vote for a Frenchman or a Spaniard, who would then form a coalition in the European Parliament and thus become the President of the European Commission. But we're far from that. Mr. Chairman. The new President of the European Commission is not a spitzen candidate, and that is really disappointing. At the same time, it is proposing democratic reforms, which I have great hopes of. She wants to strengthen the spitzen candidate system. She wants to introduce transnational lists. That would, of course, be a wonderful step towards a real European Parliament. The European Parliament should also be given the right of initiative and there should be a democratic conference on the future of Europe, which Europeans can participate in, a kind of civil forum. How does the Prime Minister view these plans? Does he support Von der Leyen in this? Will the Netherlands support this? Is such a conference, for example, a stepping stone to a possible treaty change? What vision is it to be a word that the Prime Minister sometimes struggles with, but I would like to ask him if he has anything to do with the democratic reforms of our Union? I see a number of other substantive promises made by Von der Leyen as very positive, for example the goal of becoming climate neutral as a Europe by 2050 and tripled the Erasmus budget. This is necessary if Europe is to participate in the scientific summit of the world. Competition and innovation. The establishment of a European rule of law mechanism is also a good idea. The reopening of the negotiations on the Dublin Regulation to finally take steps on the migration dossier. Adapting European market rules to grow European champions and give them a job in the fight against Chinese and American companies. Last but not least: 50% women in the new College of Commissioners. She seems to succeed, too, for the first time in European history. I would like to hear the Prime Minister's views on these substantive proposals and initiatives by Von der Leyen. Will he support her in the Council? Which proposals and initiatives do and which do not?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u13	It is not often that D66 and the SP agree on things when it comes to the European Union, but we agreed on one thing: your proposal for a smaller Commission. What do you see of that after the whole tombola of last summer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u14	Well, that's probably not gonna get much smaller, unfortunately. The Prime Minister is interrupting me now...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u15	I hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u16	... with the remark "minus one." I think he means the Brexit and the losing of one candidate. But of course that's not what D66 wanted. D66 actually wanted to halve the Commission. We have repeatedly tabled motions on this subject and they have also been adopted in this Parliament. The government has responded and said to do what is possible. That is also well written in the report of several Councils. Only, we are always told that this is not feasible at the moment. I believe that the Netherlands should continue to fight for this, but on the basis of the realistic possibilities that exist. At the moment, the voice of the Netherlands is not enough to achieve that. I find that really disappointing. The Commission posts are distributed among countries, which gives you all small, twisted portfolios that do not provide any leverage for a strong Europe. I think that's a lost opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u17	In my view, we now have the opportunity to create a new European Commission. I have not seen a word of this in the report by Minister Blok from the last summit. I did not see anything as 'this is the ambition', but the Chamber has very recently laid down this ambition. I'm assuming you're still asking from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u18	Perhaps I can seize this moment for a so-called parliamentary one-two. On the basis of Mrs Leijten's interruption, I would like to ask the Prime Minister what he said to Mrs Von der Leyen yesterday in the debate on the future Commission. It is right that Mrs von der Ley... Mrs Leijten is almost the President of the Commission when I say that I am asking this question. We shall then have half a Commission, I hear Mrs Leijten say. And half a Europe, and we shouldn't have that! Let's get back to the question. I'm asking a serious question. I would like to ask the Prime Minister this is an interruption, I say to the President, who has allowed time to pass on what Von der Leyen can and wants to do about it. Thank you. Thank you, too, to Mrs Leijten. Finally, Mr President, a few questions about the Dutch representation. Mrs Leijten has said something about this too. It is disappointing, however, that Frans Timmermans did not become the new President of the Commission after such an active and beautiful campaign. The question is, of course, why didn't it work? I am curious about the analysis of the cabinet, because there are several possible causes to think of. Is it because the Netherlands is often not very constructive and builds blocking minorities, as a report by Clingendael also shows? If that was a reason, I ask the Prime Minister. Or is it, for example, Dutch diplomacy, which is becoming less and less capable of gaining important jobs at the highest level? Or is it because Timmermans has spoken so clearly in favour of the rule of law and against some of the countries blocking his candidacy? Of course, that cause has come out a lot. I'd like to hear from the Prime Minister about that cocktail. How does he weigh that? Why have we, as the Netherlands, failed to do so? He is also entitled to take on board Mr Dijsselbloem's recent unsuccessful appointment. Can he do that, please? Finally. Timmermans will be the first vice-president again. That's good. It's very important what portfolio he gets. I understand that the Prime Minister has focused on climate and energy. I am very curious to hear what he can say about Mr Timmermans' chances of getting that portfolio, and I fully understand that he may not be able to say some things yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u19	Thank you, Mr Verhoeven. I now give the floor to Mr Van Ojik on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u20	Thank you, Mr President. The Prime Minister sometimes resorts to his fragile political feeling, mostly with a slight irony. I have such a bad political feeling today. This tells me that today we are not going to change the way jobs are divided in Europe during the summer holidays. We're not gonna change that anymore today. I think we need to face that reality hard. However, it is a good thing that we look back on what exactly happened this summer, because we do want to know how these appointments were made. I would also like to know what lessons we might draw from what has been good or not so good this summer. I'm gonna ask the Prime Minister about that later. A number of substantive promises were made by the new President of the European Commission during the process. Mr Verhoeven actually asked a bit about that. I, too, would like to know what the government's position is on these promises. I will ask a number of specific questions about this later. Mr. Chairman. It seems that the Dutch candidate for the Presidency of the European Commission was close to an appointment and that it was a very close finish. I remember the picture of a number of heads of government who were in Japan, Mr Macron was there, Mr Merkel was there, our Prime Minister was there, and who seemed quite relaxed with some kind of deal in the airplane to get to Brussels to make that deal there. But it didn't. That didn't happen. I think it would be very good if the Prime Minister took us into what exactly went wrong. Is it true that, in the end, it is my view that there has been some kind of alliance between some, let me say, eastern Member States which were annoyed by the interference with the rule of law and some Christian Democrats-led Member States who preferred a Christian Democrat who finally decided that Timmermans should not be? Mr Verhoeven also mentioned a number of possibilities. I would very much like to hear from the Prime Minister how that went. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to know what lessons the Prime Minister is taking from the mess that has arisen a little. We have worked with spitzen candidates for a long time, expecting them to be the people from whom we would elect the President of the European Commission. We knew that the Heads of Government had a say in this, but I think we could count on the Heads of Government taking into account the wishes of the European Parliament. The Heads of Government ultimately gambled on the complacency of the majority of the European Parliament. They have gambled well, because it has come at the last minute, but it has taken a very long list of promises. Mr Verhoeven mentioned a few. I would like to mention a few more. I would like to ask the Prime Minister how the Dutch Government views this. Let me give you a few very concrete examples. There will be a carbon tax at the border, as the new President of the Commission has said. There will be a common framework for a minimum wage in the European Union. There will be a European unemployment insurance scheme. I would just like to mention a few in the area of social affairs. But not always was the new President of the Commission so concrete. As far as asylum and migration are concerned, one of the major crises still facing the European Commission, especially generalities, was it a repetition of moves and was not very concrete. Is that how the Prime Minister sees it? He visited not only Mrs von der Leyen yesterday, but also the new Greek Prime Minister. I assume that I am quite sure that he has also talked about migration there and I am very curious what he has agreed on in that connection. Madam President. In agriculture, for example, the long list of promises really lacks a plea for a genuine structural reform of the European agricultural policy. I would like to hear the Prime Minister's views on that. Finally, Mr President, the rule of law. Mrs von der Leyen said that there should be an EU-wide legal mechanism. Well, I have news for her. That mechanism is already in place and is called Article 7. It is high time that this article was applied to the countries to which it applies. I'd like a response from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u21	I hear Mr. Van Ojik walking by so slowly those promises and undressing them here and there. I know that the Greens in Europe voted against the appointment of Von der Leyen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u22	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u23	I can imagine that, too. But it is also good to look at some of those promises in a positive way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u24	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u25	I have just mentioned a number of them myself. I have indicated that I am positive about this. What does GroenLinks think of some of these promises, for example in the areas of climate, social security and the rule of law? Of course, you can always say that the glass is half empty, but you could also say that it is very nice that there is a Commissioner who really wants to take certain steps in the direction of a progressive-liberal Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u26	Perhaps I have not been sufficiently clear about this, but I would like to repeat this to Mr Verhoeven. A number of plans developed by Mrs Von der Leyen in the area of climate are positive. I mentioned, for example, the carbon tax at the border, but I also refer at all to the idea of a CO tax, of a European climate law, of a greater ambition in terms of CO reduction for the longer term. But I miss things, too. For example, I am missing a real reform of agricultural policy, as I have just said. It is quite crucial in the fight against climate change. I didn't mean to say it's nothing at all. On a number of points, I have just asked the Prime Minister or the Dutch Government which supports, for example, I have mentioned the European minimum wage, but there are also a lot of things missing. Anyway, it's a very long list. I counted 25 concrete promises in the speech made by Mrs von der Leyen before her appointment to Parliament. There's a lot of them. Some I like, some less.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u27	You're not gonna mention it, are you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u28	No, I'm not going to name them unless you insist, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u29	No, no, no, no, no!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u30	Could Mr. Van Ojik just...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u31	Well, because you ask!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u32	No!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u33	So I can recount it as follows. The Greens in Europe say, like GroenLinks in the Dutch Parliament: we were not in favour of the appointment of Mrs Von der Leyen, but we are giving her a fair chance to achieve beautiful things for Europe on the content.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u34	Of course. GroenLinks The same goes for GroenLinks in Europe. Everyone always has a fair chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u35	That's a nice closure, isn't it? Thank you, Mr. Van Ojik. I now give the floor to Mr De Roon on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u36	Mr. Chairman. The bizarre charade known as the European Union also proved to be somewhat of a ghost in the distribution of the top European positions. The EU Pseudo-Parliament thought that the system of spitzen candidates also had a grip on the way things were going, but nothing was less true. The spitzen candidates for the Presidency of the European Commission, including the Dutch Timmermans, were all fired by the countries because of insufficient acceptability of their candidacy. In itself, the PVV couldn't be grieved about that. But then a candidate came up, for lack of weight, you might say. A candidate who once filled her dissertation with plagiarism. A candidate on whom the European electorate has never been able to speak. A candidate who was even completely unknown to Europeans outside Germany. That candidate was Mrs. Von der Leyen, German Defence Minister. She made a big mess of that ministry. "The worst minister ever of the German government," said SPD leader Martin Schulz. The fact that she became President of the European Commission could happen as a German Minister... I see there's been an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u37	Maybe you can finish your sentence first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u38	Well, I'd rather do that after that, because then the story goes on better.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u39	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u40	The appointment of Mrs Von der Leyen has been discussed in the European Parliament. My question is: what did the PVV vote in the European Parliament?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u41	I didn't follow that. I don't think that's interesting at all, but she's become it, and there's nothing more to be done about it. As far as I'm concerned, I shouldn't have, but the other candidates shouldn't have. So it's a choice of many bad guys.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u42	You didn't follow that? You do not know what the PVV in the European Parliament voted on Mrs von der Leyen?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u43	I don't have that ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u44	No?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u45	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u46	Do you know how many seats your party has in the European Parliament?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u47	Sir, we're not doing cross-examination here, are we? This isn't a quiz program, is it, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u48	Not that I know of, but proceed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u49	Yes. So that Minister Von der Leyen has made a huge mess of her ministry. The German SPD leader thought she was the worst minister ever. The fact that she became President of the European Commission could happen by giving all kinds of German interests to France as a German Minister of Defence. She was the Defence Minister who declared that a European army was her goal. When her candidacy for the top position of the European Union became known, she suddenly withdrew it. So her credibility is zero. What also helped her become President of the European Commission was that she supported her candidacy with great political views, for example in the area of climate, without making it clear how much that would cost and who would have to pay for it. Now, of course, we do not have to be under any illusions about that, because it will simply be the taxpayers who have to pay for it. Von der Leyen also wants to deal flexibly with budgetary rules. In other words, more room for Member States to spend more than is coming in. Mr Timmermans, who missed his dream job, Dutch puppeteer Rutte and the European Socialists were satisfied with a vice-presidentship for Mr Timmermans. While Von der Leyen initially said that both Vice-Presidents would have a lot of powers delegated, she later even had an extra boost for Timmermans by stating that that would only apply to Mr Timmermans and not to anyone else. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the candidacy for the post of foreign spokesperson of the EU. This candidacy was granted to Mr. Borrell from Spain, who, when he was director of the European University Institute, did not report, contrary to the rules of that institute, that he was touching €300,000 annually at a Spanish renewable energy company called Abengoa. "A procedural error," Borrell called it. It is noteworthy, however, that Abengoa mentioned Borrell at that time on a list of those involved in an event organised by Abengoa, but only as director of the European Institute and not as someone who also had a top job at Abengoa. In short, Abengoa kept Borrell's top job with that company for €300,000 a year carefully out of the spotlight. This cheater is therefore likely to become European Minister for Foreign Affairs. This candidate, too, is an absolute unknown to European citizens outside Spain. He is also in favour of an EU army. He is an ardent Israeli hater, an ally of Palestinian thugs and a supporter of unilateral recognition of the Palestinian State and he has a pronounced pro-Iranian position. These are some aspects of the new reality that we are facing in the EU. The PVV feelings about the EU have become even colder than they already were. I have a few more questions for the Prime Minister. Yesterday he spoke to Mrs. Von der Leyen. What priorities does she seek Dutch support for and what is the position of the Prime Minister in this regard? Secondly, on Monday or Tuesday, the US Secretary of State also spoke with Mrs von der Leyen. I would like to know from the Prime Minister whether Mrs Von der Leyen in the discussion with the Prime Minister also shared anything about that conversation with Pompeo. What does he want from Europe? I can list a whole list, but I'd like to hear if anything about it has become known through that conversation. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u50	Thank you, Mr. De Roon. I now give the floor to Mrs Ploumen on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u51	Mr. Chairman. The heart of our Prime Minister, Mark Rutte, beat this summer to the standards of the International, the Battle Song of the Labour Party. "Brothers," I'd like to tell him, "he hears how equality speaks. No right where duty has been lifted, no duty where justice is lacking." The Prime Minister has worked in Europe to appoint the winner of the European elections in the Netherlands, Frans Timmermans of the Labour Party, as President of the European Commission. That is so important because, if we look a little further than Europe, there is a vacancy for leader of the free world now President Trump is failing. The European Union must take that place. Of course, we would have liked to see the results of the elections in the Netherlands done justice, but things were different. Mr Van Ojik asked a number of precise questions about this and I am happy to endorse that. But I would also like to thank the Prime Minister for his commitment. It is good for the Netherlands, for the people of the Netherlands and for the people of Europe that Frans Timmermans gets an important position in the new Commission. Mr President, I hear a lot of things. If Mr Omtzigt or Mr Anne Mulder has something to ask me, then he can do so via the interrupting microphone. The same applies to Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u52	I really like this story. I thought I shouldn't interrupt that with a petty question. But of course it is somewhat strange to say that Timmermans, who did a great job in the Netherlands, should have been. I would have liked to have seen that too, but of course he did not get the most votes in Europe, and that has been an important factor. That was my surprise. Of course, the Dutch outcome is not only leading the situation in Europe as a whole, where Timmermans received less votes than the other candidate of the Social and Christian Democrats. This as a footnote to this further wonderful story.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u53	I'm not in the habit of responding to footnotes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u54	But you provoked it yourself. I'd say it's nothing to worry about. Continue with your story.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u55	Thank you to Mr Verhoeven for this addition. It brings me to a question that Mr Van Ojik asked and which I would like to see answered by the Prime Minister: what is his view on the Spitzen candidate's system? We have heard various comments from him about this. My concern is whether all those people who have gone to the ballot box in all those countries in Europe feel sufficiently represented. At the same time, when I ask this question, I have to say that the President of the European Commission, Mrs Ursula von der Leyen, also to be appointed, seems to be on the same footing as the International, because many of the 25 proposals she mentioned in the speech echoed the campaign of Frans Timmermans of the Labour Party. A more social Europe; we were already talking about a minimum wage framework. A greener Europe; climate action has already been mentioned. And a Europe that will defend and uphold the values we stand for, freedom and equality, also in its own circle. I would very much like Prime Minister Rutte to respond to those proposals made by Mrs von der Leyen. Will the Dutch Government support these proposals? Indeed, a minimum wage framework. Indeed, ambitions for a greener, more sustainable Europe. Indeed, a Europe that defends values and also sets conditionality. If a Member State does not comply with what we have agreed with each other on what we think is freedom, does this mean something for the financial contribution that such a country could get? The Labour Party would be for that. Mr. Chairman. Finally. We would consider it important if the Asscher motion were taken as a guide to the Dutch cabinet's commitment in the coming period. That is an adopted motion which states that the development goals we have set together in the world must be the guiding principle. Say, "The agenda for a just world." These must be the starting points for the Dutch commitment in Europe. Indeed, a more social Europe, a Europe that stands up for women's rights, a Europe that stands up for opportunities for young people, a Europe that stands up for a sustainable world. What is the Prime Minister going to do to concrete this commitment? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u56	Thank you, Mrs Ploumen. I now give the floor to Mr Omtzigt on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u57	Mr. Chairman. I will concentrate on two of the proposed appointments: that of the President of the European Central Bank, Mrs Lagarde, and that of Mr Timmermans. Then I will say a word about the European Commission's programme. The CDA Group considers the appointment of the President of the European Central Bank to be crucial. It is crucial because the European Central Bank has bought up over EUR 4,000 billion in bonds and government loans, even from commercial parties, through a buy-back programme, and is pursuing a very controversial policy and because it poses major risks to the economy. Its phasing out will be a very delicate process. The CDA Group would therefore like to know on what basis Mrs Lagarde was selected as President-in-Office of the ECB. What exactly was the process between the Heads of Government? I ask this because the Heads of Government are once every eight years inclined to give some direction to the ECB. You do that by appointing a president. At the moment, Mrs Lagarde in the European Parliament says that she sees it as an objective of greening and reducing the gap between rich and poor. These are very legitimate targets if they come from Mr Van Ojik's mouth. The question is whether this should be an objective of the European Central Bank's policy. I'd like to hear your opinion on that. I would also like to have the undertaking that the Dutch Government, before voting on Mrs Lagarde's appointment, will be put to the vote at the European Council in composition, and that it will present a story to the House of Representatives explaining why it intends to vote in favour or not. Before the vote, because that is our parliamentary control of this process. In that letter, something could be said about whether it fulfils the condition of "recognized reputation." She was convicted without that punishment, to give an example. Does that meet the criteria? That is possible, but I would like to see something about that and about the direction of policy. To mention one thing about the direction of this policy: the European Central Bank seems to plan to reduce interest rates even further. My opinion on this may well be well known, but the ECB now seems to be inclined to compensate banks but not pension funds. So banks will soon receive billions of compensation for the low interest rate, but pension funds and insurers will not. In other words, if you save in southern Europe and put the money in a bank account, you get 0% interest. That's gonna be high. If you participate in a pension fund here, you have to charge -2% interest. Is that fair? My answer is no. I ask the Dutch Government to take a stand against that. That's my next question. I also have a number of questions about Timmermans. He is now the candidate of the Dutch government. During the process, Mr Timmermans also seemed to make some commitments to Bulgaria, to Mr Borisov. It was something about Schengen opening. Has that promise been made or not? Is the Dutch Government committed to this? I understand that Bulgaria is bringing this in, but admission to Schengen is something that is decided unanimously here in Parliament. So I want to hear from the Prime Minister that no commitments have been made on this dossier in that process. I would also appreciate his opinion on the video. Furthermore, Mr Timmermans has said with great respect that he is in favour of the protection of whistleblowers. Now one Dutch whistleblower is hiding somewhere: Roeli Post. From the European Commission, for trafficking in children. We have recently seen that in Romania of foster parents just a child, screaming and screaming, has been kidnapped that movie goes through marrow and bone to be adopted in America for some tens of thousands of euros. How bizarre can it be? It has opposed such practices. Those practices will not be resolved. In fact, they're getting back in. And she's in trouble. Will the Prime Minister make a commitment to resolving this dossier on both sides? Direction the whistleblower and towards the practices, or perhaps the other way around. Can we have a feedback from that in two or three months? For I believe that Mr Timmermans can be kept to that expensive promise. Finally, Mr President. My colleague from GroenLinks was absolutely right: we are not going to change these appointments. Except for the ECB nomination, which I'd like to have a letter about. But there is one more appointment: Mr Selmayr's successor. It didn't deserve a beauty prize. Can we assume that this will be done in a proper way? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u58	Thank you. Mr. Omtzigt, Mr. Van Ojik has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u59	Mr Omtzigt has asked a number of questions about the Dutch candidate for the European Commission, Mr Timmermans. I have a question for him on that, too. After this summer, I am actually curious about the answer to the question whether the CDA supported Mr Timmermans' candidacy for the Presidency of the European Commission throughout the process.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u60	The CDA Group has not been involved in this. So I wasn't consulted about it at any time either. Am I in favour of that candidacy? Yeah, I've said from the start that I'm in favour of the spitzencandidate system. If it had become one of the spitzen candidates, because that spitzen candidate had found a majority in the European Parliament, my preference was clearly with Mr Weber; let there be no misunderstanding about it, and if it had become Mr Timmermans, because he had found a coalition of 51% in the European Parliament, I would certainly have preferred it. If you're in favour of that system, you're in favour of it being followed that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u61	If Mr Omtzigt says that they have not been involved in any way, I believe that, of course. But I am asking this because, in the coverage of why it did not succeed in the end, a number of European Christian Democrats or Heads of Government have been given quite a role. They would have said that they wanted at least a Christian Democratic candidate. But I understand from Mr Omtzigt that the Dutch CDA was not with that group of Christian Democrats in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u62	I'm going to try to split this question into two parts. First the question of whether we felt that there could be lobbying within the government for Mr Timmermans as a spitzen candidate. The answer was absolute: yes, no problem at all. The CDA Group in the House of Representatives also supports this. The other question is, of course, who it should have been. I would not have been grieved if it had become Mr Weber, I shall say very neatly. That was the chairman of the largest party, and that happens to be the party I myself am a member of. By the way, you know my history with EPPs. At a time when EPPs are not good, as in the Council of Europe, I am throwing out my own group chairmen. So I support not only pro forma, but also because I think it would have been a good candidate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u63	But that's crazy. Because it was either Timmermans or Weber. That is what Mr Van Ojik is asking for. Our Liberal Prime Minister seemed to support a profiled Social Democrat. I asked the Prime Minister if he could explain how it went. But you are actually saying here: I was in favour of a spitzen candidate being elected, but rather Weber. Isn't that what you're saying?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u64	This is the disadvantage of the system you have here. If we have a spitzen candidate in the Netherlands, we had two, but one of them could also become the President of the European Commission seriously, namely Mr Timmermans, the Dutch Government, if it is in favour of that spitzen candidate system, can only support Mr Timmermans. Otherwise, you're gonna take the whole process down. I think that the Dutch Government has done well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u65	However, I find that strange, because the way things have been with the spitzencandidates, the Foreign Minister in The Financial Times called 'a coup of the European Parliament' at the Council of Heads of Government. In fact, it has always been the view of the Dutch Government that we do not do so in this way. We are going for the best candidate who represents the Dutch interest. What is Mr Timmermans as far as you are concerned if he is going to remain a Commissioner? Is he then the Social Democrat who fought this battle and therefore came to that place? Or does he do what the Dutch government wants, whatever colour he has?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u66	I am afraid that neither Mr Timmermans nor his predecessors, whether Mrs Kroes, Mr Bolkestein or others, have been taking instructions from The Hague every week. We have a different tradition there than other countries. But, yes, here you are with that mixing system that someone as a social democrat was a candidate for a spitzencandidate and therefore also the candidate of the Dutch government.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u67	Yeah, the system's not ideal. For the CDA, this situation was also far from ideal. I understand Mr Omtzig's struggle, but I would also like to ask him a question. After all, Mr Timmermans has had an incredible headwind of a number of Christian Democrat leaders who have decided that they absolutely did not want him to be because of his commitment to the rule of law against the governments of Poland and Hungary. That has happened, and I am curious, apart from the whole system and the complexity of the procedure that Mr Omtzigt was talking about. How does Mr Omtzigt, who is always committed to the rule of law, feel that his political brothers and sisters have so opposed the appointment of someone who has so worked for what his party here in the Netherlands always stands for?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u68	I very much appreciate the work, the commitment of Mr Timmermans to the rule of law. This means that I also have discussions with Mr Timmermans about it and that I am travelling to Warsaw tonight because I am the one on behalf of the Council of Europe who writes the report on the rule of law in Poland. I fully share those concerns. I also think you can't hold that against him. But that a political party thinks that because you are the largest, you also have a reasonable claim to that presidency and that Weber was a good candidate, I also think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u69	I also very much appreciate the work done by Mr Omtzigt who is travelling to Warsaw to try to get back there on a number of important issues. There's no question about that. Apart from that, I would like Mr Omtzigt to give an opinion on his own political family and the attitude of that political family in Europe when it comes to such an important European value. As far as D66 is concerned, Timmermans has sometimes not even spoken out hard enough for that value of the rule of law and his commitment, particularly in Poland and Hungary, but he has gotten so much resistance from Mr Omtzigt's political family that his candidacy turned out to be hopeless. I would like to know from Mr Omtzigt how he feels about that. Is he talking to those Christian-Democratic colleagues about this course of action?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u70	I don't know exactly where this came from. Let me say quite honestly: there are two countries that have suffered most from this Commission. Those are indeed Poland and Hungary. In Poland there is the government of the PiS. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is in opposition to the anti-democratic part of the government's policy. I do not see what EPP attack Mr Verhoeven means. If he sees how our party, the EPP and also the CDA have dealt with Mr Orbán and the temporary lack of membership of the EPP, then I think we have been quite clear about that. Also clearer than other political families. Then I can point to the social democratic parties of Romania or Malta. So we have taken a very clear position on this: it cannot be done. I am also asking the question about Mr Borisov. Mr Verhoeven could have noticed that this is an EPP leader trying to get something from a Social Democrat. I would like to know what is happening with this, because I am very much in favour of the Dutch interest that countries should not be admitted to Schengen if they do not meet the conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u71	Thank you, Mr. Ommzigt. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Anne Mulder on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u72	Mr President, thank you. In the current international world with all the unrest, a strong European Union is of great importance to the Netherlands. This contributes to security and prosperity for the Netherlands. This also includes the fact that we have capable people in the right positions, and preferably also Dutch. Decisions were taken on this at the European Summit. The names have already been mentioned: Mr Michel, Mr Borrell, Mrs von der Leyen and Mrs Lagarde. On 16 July the European Parliament voted on the appointment of Mrs Von der Leyen. She was appointed by a narrow majority. According to the VVD this is a good result for the Netherlands. The Netherlands once again has the first Vice-President, Mr Timmermans. He is from the Labour Party, but, as the Clingendael report on Dutch influence in Europe has shown, he has contributed to the prestige of the Netherlands and thus also to the increase of the influence of the Netherlands in the European Union. So the appointment is good. I do not think the Liberals are dissatisfied either. Mr Michel, a Belgian liberal, will be President of the European Council. And Mrs. Vestager will be second vice-president. At least she's on top of the list. Mr. Chairman. My first question to the Prime Minister is: what portfolio has the Netherlands claimed for Mr Timmermans? I heard yesterday that it's climate and energy. That sounds like an important portfolio to me. Mrs Von der Leyen's agenda begins with that too, pages long. The climate is also typically a problem that needs to be solved at European level, because the climate is cross-border. So this wallet's been claimed? And if so, why? And what chance does the Prime Minister consider to have of the Netherlands? The attempt by a number of countries, Hungary and Poland, to block Mr Timmermans because he has done his job was unheard of. It's shocking that when someone does their job as a Commissioner, you don't want him to be the president. That shows how important it is that we start to enforce rule of law. Perhaps we should do so independently of the Commission, so that a new Commissioner does not have to be afraid of the further career, but is simply independent. This also applies to the Stability and Growth Pact: to maintain and stay away from politics independently. I know that the Prime Minister has proposals for this, at least a few months ago he had thoughts about it. Is that gonna lead to something? Did he bring in the independent enforcement of the Stability and Growth Pact and the rule of law yesterday to Mrs von der Leyen? Mr. Chairman. It has already been said that Mrs von der Leyen has been co-appointed by the European Parliament because she has made all kinds of commitments. The European Parliament is trying to gain influence through the appointment. A number of proposals sound important, although I still have to see the impact. For example, in the case of climate, it makes sense for us to do something there. What these proposals look like, we can still see that. But a European social security system seems undesirable to the VVD. How does the Prime Minister feel about that? Is he gonna do something about that? What's he gonna do to stop that? Is he going to make arguments and seek allies? Because according to Articles 150 and beyond of the Treaty, this is a national competence and not one of the European Parliament. I would like to receive a response to that. Finally. Actually, I'm glad the Prime Minister stayed. A number of parties, especially one who is not present again today, have been talking endlessly about this: the Prime Minister is leaving! And thankfully, the Prime Minister is still here. He was not appointed in Brussels, and my group welcomes that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u73	I understand from Mr Mulder that he says that there are a number of things on that list of promises made by Mrs von der Leyen, which we are not in favour of. But can I conclude from the fact that the VVD has supported its appointment that the total package of 25 very concrete proposals can be broadly supported by the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u74	No, we will support some of them. As far as the climate is concerned, of course, it depends on how that works. We are reluctant when it comes to taxes. There are therefore a number of good proposals. I refer to the enforcement of the rule of law, trade treaties. There must also be some migration. However, such a European social security system is a national competence. My group sees no reason why this should be done at European level. Social security is not a cross-border problem, nor is it a minimum wage. That's what countries are about. I wouldn't let that happen. As always in Europe, you never get 100% what you want. It's always wheeling and dealing, giving and taking, smart and tough negotiation. That's what the Prime Minister has to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u75	That is a curious answer. What happened at the end of June: the President of the European Commission at that time made a speech in the European Parliament to explain her plans. All political groups will have the opportunity to vote in favour or not by eventually voting on their candidatures. The VVD agrees, but now says: that does not mean that we broadly agree with all of her plans. This is a rather curious light on what apparently took place in the European Parliament at the end of June.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u76	It is what I said: Europe is a set of different interests that fight for priority. Nobody gets what they want, not even when it comes to the President of the Commission. The European Parliament is trying to influence the agenda through its appointment. That's how the game goes. Europe is not something with an ideal candidate who 100% does what you want. Not at all, it is always wheeling and dealing, including in the European Parliament, with all kinds of groups that sit together. Sometimes you have to find what exactly they're united on. It's wheeling and dealing all over Europe. It is no different on this issue. That wheeling and dealing and the clever negotiation just continues after this appointment. I just said that. Now it's about smart and tough negotiation. What's good is you have to keep it and maybe adapt it to make it even better and help it move forward. What's undesirable is you have to stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u77	The VVD Group is opposed to a European social security system, but it has simply agreed to a European labour inspectorate. This is part of building a European social security system. The VVD often does this: saying you're against something, but when you actually have to vote, you just agree. I have a question that has to do with this. The ever closer union is now in all treaties. We need to get closer and closer through the political power of the European Parliament and the European Commission. That is the only route the European Union could follow. Mr Mulder has often talked about this. In May, the VVD voted in favour of a motion stating that the Dutch Parliament wants this to come out of a future treaty. If we look at both the candidacy of Timmermans and our Dutch delegate, as well as that of Mrs von der Leyen, does Mr Mulder have the idea that the government has listened to the wish of the Chamber to work together in a different way than always through the political deepening?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u78	First of all, there is the European Labour Inspectorate. Mrs Leijten asked for that too. That labor inspection could help. Then it's not about transferring sovereignty. That is the exchange of data between labour inspectorates. My group will be happy to say something for that. The core is that Europe must solve the major cross-border problems. Sometimes that means more Europe, perhaps in the climate, but the ever closer union always means more. The VVD doesn't want that. That is how we stand and the same applies to the appointment of Mrs von der Leyen. There are therefore a number of good proposals, but this is far from being the case. We're just gonna go ahead and stop it. It's not that you're for or against Europe, that you're for an ever closer union or that you want out. No, that's where solving the big cross-border problems is in a smart way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u79	The VVD and the SP can quickly agree on what you might have to solve through the European Union, but the frame that is underneath now is that it all has to be resolved through the political turntable of Brussels. The European Labour Authority is an example of this. It's going to inform countries about where there's a shortage of labour. It will therefore also encourage internal labour migration, which may require a debate on this by outgoing and receiving countries. Timmermans is against the motion, which he also said about the ever closer union. He's against the wishes of the Chamber to get that out of a treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u80	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u81	How then is it that the one who opposes it, while there is a majority for it, is going to become the Dutch envoy?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u82	I told you, you don't always have the ideal candidate who totally agrees with you. We're on our own.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u83	This is gonna be a repeat.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u84	Someone can say in an election campaign that he is in favour of a European minimum wage. Mr Timmermans did. But, yes, Article 150 and beyond of the European Treaty say that this is what national Member States are about. So Mr Timmermans gives something he doesn't own at all. You can get very angry about that, but you can also actually see it and then stay calm.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u85	Thank you, Mr. Anne Mulder. Then I'll suspend the meeting for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u86	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u87	Madam President. Mrs Ploumen does require me to begin with an issue which she addressed here, namely the International. It might be good to recall why that song does not immediately encounter resistance in the circles of my party. First of all, of course, because Mrs Henriette Roland Holst, the translator of the Dutch version "awakened, rejected of the earth" was born on the Dutch-Belgian border, in a beautiful villa. In this way, she can also count on sympathy in our party. Unfortunately, she later went through the meeting with Herman Gorter a bit more left-wing. But maybe it's just because of the anecdotes that are told in the party. How Hans Wiegel, who as a guest attended the Congress of the Labour Party, loudly sang the song in the front row, while Joop den Uyl was standing next to it, not knowing the lyrics, because of his other background of course. The fancier I would like to refer to the beautiful biography of Dik Verkuil, which is just out. Of course we already had a beautiful biography of Bleich about Joop den Uyl, but also that of Dik Verkuil is again a beautiful book. He describes the dinners after those beautiful famous debates between Wiegel and Van Agt, in the early 1970s, where they traveled through the country, the famous moment of "Sinterklaas exists: there he is!"Palestinian root and tuberculous root and tuberculous root and tuberculan root and tuberculan root and tuberculan root and tuberculan root and tuberculan root and tuberculan root and tuberculan root and tuberculan root and tuberculan root and tuberculan root and tuberculan root and tuberculan root and tuberculan root and tuberculan root and tuberculan root and tuberculan root and tuberculan root and And then went out for a nice meal. Of course, every time that standard joke by Wiegel like Den Uyl came into the steak: "ha, steak socialist!', Den Uyl then said, "Yes, I just really like it." In other words: it's not that weird that that song resonates in my party here and there. All right, leaving aside that introduction, I would like to pass a few things from the first term, first of all the new President of the European Commission and the position of Frans Timmermans in that discussion. A great deal has been said about this. The first question is, of course, how you look at the system of choosing such a chairman. The Netherlands has the position of following Article 17 of the Treaty of the European Union. The European Council shall nominate, taking into account the results of the elections, and ultimately the European Parliament shall take over the nomination. That's the system. Inside there is room for parties, for political families, to say: we want to express our opinion through a spitzen candidate system. Of course, the Dutch coalition is divided in half, and fortunately so. The more liberal parties are opposed. D66 and the VVD have never confessed to a spitzen candidate system. The CDA and the Labour Opposition Party did. That's fine. It's okay. So the Dutch cabinet has no idea whether you are for or against a spitzencandidate system. That really is a matter for the political parties, for the political families. For the Netherlands, we base ourselves on Article 17 and within Article 17 there is room for a spitzencandidate system for those parties that want it. The Liberals have tried to increase the chaos by coming up with seven people, all of whom, I believe, would be able to fill in the Presidency of the European Commission. In the end, it has been said in liberal circles, in liberal democratic circles, that, if such a struggle is to be fought, it is logical that Margrethe Vestager should be the most visible for that presidency. Well, that's how it happened. That's it. That's it. That's it. That's it. That's it. For the Netherlands, Article 17 is leading and political families can put accents in it. Finally, it has rightly been concluded that it has to be established that Frans Timmermans did not become the President of the European Commission. I think there were two things involved. They were mentioned earlier today in the debate. First of all, you saw objections in Eastern Europe, at least among the countries in Eastern Europe which have become known to the Visegrád Group, against the views of Frans Timmermans on rule of law. That would in itself have been an objection, because these countries have no blocking minority together, and anyone who is nominated to Parliament is not a unanimous decision in the European Council. So that could have been avoided, but then you saw that even with the prime ministers or presidents who have confessed to the family of the European People's Party, the view arose that, if it were not to become a spitzen candidate, it would have to be someone from that family. This created a situation in which Vestager, but certainly also Timmermans, could not make it. That's how it turned out. Of course, it would have been wonderful for the Netherlands if it had become a Dutch President of the European Commission. I had personally very much awarded Frans Timmermans, but it would also have been good for the Netherlands. He's an excellent driver. I think we would have been proud if it had happened, but it didn't happen. I am glad that he is continuing as a Member of the Commission and not as just a Member, but in a very senior position again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u88	We have indeed heard that there were some Eastern European countries that could not support Timmermans' candidacy. But countries such as Ireland and the southern countries have also joined, countries that we may have thought were our friends. How exactly does the Prime Minister look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u89	There's not much to look at. It's not my place to say exactly who did what. I can't violate that confidentiality here. I can only say something about it as far as it was visible in public. In public, it was very visible that the four countries that act together also under the flag of Visegrád, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary and Poland objected for various reasons, but above all because of constitutional discussions that have taken place on the basis of the current portfolio of the first Vice-President. The second thing I want to say, because it has also been very visible, is that there was division within the EPP. That's as far as I can go. I am not quite sure which countries have spoken openly about this. I don't want to break that confidentiality. The fact is that on the Monday afternoon after that whole night there was too much chance that putting Frans Timmermans' candidacy to the vote would have led to alignment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u90	This is exactly where we see the problem. Of course, we want to control what the government is doing. But we also want to know whether the government, when it is blacked out or blacked out, will next time adopt the right strategy for a new candidate. The Prime Minister cannot even tell us which countries were in favour or against and what exactly dynamics were in place. We have just heard about Ireland from the newspaper. There are still a few of them. We are now very much blaming the argument of the state of law, but there may have been something else going on. Does the Prime Minister agree with me that it will greatly weaken the position of the House of Representatives if we do not know how the votes took place in the end and if we do not know what the proportions were?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u91	There was no vote in the end. After lengthy deliberation, a conclusion was reached and it came out that there was unanimity on Ursula von der Leyen's nomination as President of the European Commission, with Germany abstaining. That came out. That's the only thing that's officially clear. The different positions of countries in all deliberations leading to that final conclusion have never been formally logged. You won't. The European Council shall meet in private. We can find all kinds of things, but that's the system. I cannot say here as one of the members of the European Council that I am going to break confidentiality by saying what other countries have done, except for the two comments that have become visible in the media. I'm not gonna go around that either. That would be crazy. This concerns the position of these four countries from Eastern Europe and the discussion within the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats of the European Parliament of Prime Ministers and Presidents.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u92	I asked another question, didn't I? I asked the question: does the Prime Minister agree with me that this actually undermines the position of the House of Representatives? Because we cannot know the relations between the countries within the European Council, we cannot send the Dutch Government with a mandate to successfully present a candidate in the future. I would like an answer to that question. Does he agree that the position of the House of Representatives is 0.0 in this respect?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u93	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u94	No, I disagree.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u95	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u96	The next question about Frans Timmermans is of course: how to proceed? It's good he's gonna keep going. He's done good things. He's a good driver. He also achieved an excellent election result in the Netherlands, of course. The intention is known. Ursula von der Leyen intends to appoint him as First Vice-President of the Commission. That is also part of the agreement on appointments. Along with the formal applications, the political conclusion has been reached that this will happen. Von der Leyen said in the European Parliament that there will be two executive vice-presidents, the most visible candidate from the liberal family, Vestager, and Frans Timmermans, and that Frans Timmermans will be the first vice-president to replace the President of the Commission in her absence. The question is, of course, what his portfolio will be. I see all kinds of things about that in the media, but I'm not going to say anything about it in public. How portfolios are ultimately allocated is, of course, a very complex process. Saying things about it in public does not help to maximize the chances that the first Vice-President will also have a portfolio. There are several options and possibilities. As I now see the playing field, I think that whatever exactly comes out, it will be a very interesting and also relevant package for the Netherlands. But you won't have the certainty of that until the whole puzzle is laid. There's only one person who's laying that puzzle now, and that's Ursula von der Leyen. Now that the Italian candidate has also been announced, who appears to be former Prime Minister Gentiloni, she can finalize that puzzle. So I can't say in public "The Netherlands hopes this and thinks sister" because that's all going to be international news. Then others will react by saying: oh, so the Netherlands thinks so! Then perhaps three others are alerted who think: we actually find that quite different. So it is really not in Dutch interest if I speculate on that. I saw messages too, but let's just not say anything about it. What I do want to say is Dutch diplomacy. It was suggested for a moment that it might have been that. That is certainly not the case. I can tell how strong... The Netherlands ahead... We are doing really well in Brussels. I notice that our people have a lot of authority in Brussels, whether it's the people at the PV or the people from the Netherlands who guide these processes. It certainly wasn't the fault that it didn't work out. It was the well-known resistance from Eastern Europe, the four countries, and the desire within the EPP family that was not directed against Frans Timmermans, by the way, to see if it was possible to get that job for themselves, for that family. This combined resistance was ultimately too heavy to get Frans Timmermans appointed President of the Commission.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u97	I thank the Prime Minister for the explanation. These two factors, the PPE and the Visegrád, do, of course, overlap somewhat.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u98	With one country, Hungary, but that's all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u99	But that is a big overlap, given the reaction from that country to not becoming Timmermans...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u100	May I say something about that, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u101	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u102	I really wouldn't judge that the way I see it. Orbán's criticism is very audible, so I can just echo it here. He said, "I'm against Timmermans because he's too tough on the rule of law." That was dealt with by other Visegrád countries. I really see that as separated from the discussion within the EPP. It was not explicitly directed against Timmermans at all, but, as the largest family, one had a wish. Mr Omtzigt also referred to this. They said that if Weber can't be it, then we still think we should have the chance to put another one forward. That in itself is a process that I cannot forbid. Perhaps a little bit more about us as a liberal family, because I just heard the debate: we, of course, have our strange guests. The Prime Minister of the Czech Republic is back in our family. I'm surprised Mr Omtzig didn't contradict you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u103	Mr Omtzigt held back. Indeed, as a common liberal, we also have our strange guests. In fact, we are often called upon to do so in Europe, but that aside. Thank you for that explanation. I mentioned a third factor, but I have not heard the Prime Minister. In addition to the analysis on the Visegrád, the EPP and diplomacy, I also mentioned the Clingendael report. The position of the Netherlands is: always looking for blocking minorities, less constructive when it comes to trying to create steps forward and often stand on the brakes. That's a point I've often made here. However, I would like to hear from the Prime Minister whether he has played that role. The Netherlands has indeed built up this image here and there, and we should not be blind to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u104	Let me say this: no, in my opinion, that has played absolutely no role in this matter. Moreover, I do not agree with the conclusion expressed by Mr Verhoeven. I do not think it is entirely in line with the Clingendael report either. But if that were the conclusion of the Clingendael report, if it were already correct again, I will go so far as to say that it has played absolutely no role here. Frans Timmermans is very much seen. The criticism was very directed from four countries, which were far from achieving the necessary 35% to block. That's where they were far, far below. But again, in conjunction with the PPE-DE wish to have an EPP appointed, it became impossible. I don't think it has anything to do with the Netherlands. By the way, I do not have exactly what they conclude in the Clingendael report, but if Mr Verhoeven quotes it correctly, I would disagree with that. Why don't I agree? The Netherlands finds something, we have an opinion. But every time we come up with proposals to solve things. Look, for example, at the views that come from France, the Sorbonne speech of Macron two years ago. On six of the seven points, we were in total agreement, but on one point we were very much opposed, namely the desire for a stabilisation mechanism for the euro area. How did we get out of there? Keep talking, talk, talk, talk. In the end, this resulted in a joint compromise, also on the basis of Dutch proposals. We think it is important, if we do not like something, to look at how we can ultimately reach a compromise that fits our objectives. So I don't recognize that the Netherlands is blocking. We're not a block of concrete. We will find something and then try to accommodate the wishes of others as well as possible, within our frameworks. I've been able to do that a lot. I think it belongs to a Member State like the Netherlands. We don't belong to the four biggest if England is gone right away. There are two very large: France and Germany. Then you get Italy and Spain, then the Netherlands and then nothing for a long time. The next country in size is Belgium and then you get a whole tail landing. When the UK is out, we are just the fifth economy of the 27. I believe that, as one of the founding members of the European Union's forerunners and also as co-founders of the Benelux countries, we can be expected to find something and not only say no when we are against something, but always try to come up with proposals to solve it. It's appreciated.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u105	Please continue. Mr Verhoeven?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u106	I agree. I am not going to have a debate with the Prime Minister on the Clingendael report. That's not on the agenda either. I notice he's saying it hasn't had any influence right now. Apart from the different ways in which we look at it, I am satisfied with his explanation that it was not the case. We will be talking about this attitude of the Netherlands in the near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u107	What has, in any case, had influence, as the Prime Minister says, is that four Member States of the European Union have said 'we do not want the President of the European Commission who is strict on the rule of law'. What does the Prime Minister actually think of this, apart from the fact that it is a pity that it has not become a Dutch candidate?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u108	Here too, I want to be very precise. That sentence has not been said in this way, so "we do not want him, because his views on the rule of law..." What they put through in their media statements is that they turned against the candidacy of Frans Timmermans. In doing so, they allowed his attitude, not so much his statements, to weigh heavily. With the full support of the Dutch Government and actually most European governments, I think, he was concerned about the application of the rule of law in Hungary and Poland. How do I feel about that? They're free to find it. On the other hand, the European Union is a market but also a community of values. The European Union can only have added value if it is in balance. I continue to call on countries which, from the perspective of the European Commission, are not sufficiently committed to the rule of law, together with my colleagues, to encourage them to return to the right path. We will continue to use all the instruments to this end.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u109	I also ask because I can imagine that the cabinet is taking the time to look back at what happened and at the argumentation. We have talked about the Christian Democrats. There's a party political reason to pose as they've done. We can think of that as we want, but we get that. The Prime Minister is a bit nuanced, but basically four Member States have said: no, we do not want someone to abide by the principles of the rule of law. The question is not only how the Prime Minister qualifies that he has just done so, but also what conclusions he draws from it. Mrs von der Leyen has expressed a number of intentions. I have said that I find it rather vague when it comes to the rule of law. What conclusion does the Prime Minister draw from what has happened?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u110	We're not gonna do anything new. We are one of the most audible Member States on this issue, with regard to Article 7, the constitutional principles. The proposals made by Von der Leyen on a so-called rule of law cycle are intended precisely in addition to Article 7. They are intended to identify certain negative developments that could jeopardise the democratic rule of law as early as possible, at an early stage. Then you can try to adjust things early through a constructive dialogue. We support that. We do not see this as contrary to Article 7, but as complementary to that. So it's not instead of Article 7, but maybe you don't need Article 7 if it works this way. We are therefore in favour of such an instrument. We will soon also inform the Chamber about this via a BNC-fiche. It will provide a comprehensive cabinet response to the new proposals on strengthening the Union's rule of law, but we believe that they are sensible proposals made by von der Leyen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u111	The Labour Party also thinks that Von der Leyen's proposals make sense, but also a little lean. Does the Prime Minister agree with me that it would be good, in addition to constructive dialogue, to have a stick behind the door in the form of conditionality, for example? In normal human language: if you do not comply with the rules we have agreed with each other, the result is that you will also not be able to communicate in the financial resources that we allocate to each other. This simply means that subsidies are withdrawn or maintained when the rule of law is not respected. Is the Prime Minister gonna threaten that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u112	We already do. We would consider it politically desirable to have a link between, for example, the distribution of resources from the MFF in the areas of cohesion, structural funds and agricultural funds and compliance with the constitutional principles. That is a well-known Dutch position. Moreover, it is extremely difficult to get that done, because it often requires unanimity in order to adapt the rules in this area. And hey, that's what we have countries that might think differently. The Netherlands thinks so. The procedure laid down in Article 7 is also very firm. As we see it, it also continues to exist, in addition to or in fact to encourage countries, after the dialogue has taken place, to return to the right path in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u113	Then I would like to tell the Prime Minister that something has happened in this whole process. We just talked about that. Surely it should not be possible for countries to say 'the previous Commission made it too difficult for us in the field of the rule of law', and that this will only be answered with an additional instrument as a constructive dialogue without a scoop in terms of conditionality? Would the Prime Minister like to make a commitment to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u114	We already do. Only, you often need unanimity for that. I can make an effort, but I don't think I'm just gonna get results.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u115	I'm gonna try one more time. I know. It is also good that the Netherlands does so. I can imagine that more countries are expressing their displeasure at the attitude of the Visegrád countries and that there is now a breeding ground for looking at additional conditionality with other countries. Would the Prime Minister like to investigate that? Would he be willing to work for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u116	We do, but I would really like to separate that from the choice for the President of the Commission. We shouldn't fall for that trap right now. These countries, of course, also formulate this politically wisely. I would have done the same in their position. They don't just say: you talk to us about shortcomings in the rule of law, so you shouldn't be President of the Commission. I didn't hear those sentences anywhere. Links between one and the other are made in the media from these countries, but of course they do so in a nuanced manner. It will not work if we now say: we are going to take you extra because you did not want our candidate, partly because of his attitude towards the rule of law. I believe that we should focus very strictly on whether we have the right instruments for those countries which do not comply sufficiently with the rule of law. I think Von der Leyen is making a good proposal. There is also the existing Article 7. The Netherlands has made proposals to introduce conditionality on benefits from the MFF. The same applies to participation in migration solidarity, making Schengen membership dependent on solidarity in the area of migration. We make all these proposals. I think we are really already at the extremes of the kind of proposals we are making there. But you often need unanimity for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u117	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u118	Finally. Nor would my proposal be to say to those countries: since you didn't want our candidate, we're going to get you extra now. This could also be seen as having little success in diplomatic terms. At the same time, you could see it as an insult to the overall Commission and to all European countries of good will that these four countries undermine those values in all possible ways. That's what they've shown me. Considering this in full: is this not the time to form a new, strong coalition that could advocate additional measures and additional conditionality? That's what I'm asking the Prime Minister. It's different than it was a year ago. Something did happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u119	We're already on the extremes. We are one of the countries that goes the farthest in wanting to link punishment to non-compliance with the rule of law, with constitutional principles. I do not see what else we can suggest in that regard. The chance that these things will make it is small, because they are very often asking for unanimity. Of course, that's always part of a conversation. When Von der Leyen was with me yesterday, the importance of rule of law was one of the central components. And yes, I don't want Visegrád countries to sometimes feel that they are not being taken seriously. They sometimes radiate that they are not taken as seriously as Western European countries. It's not, but if there's that feeling, I want to help take it away. But it can never be a reason to say: because that feeling exists there, we are making concessions to these principles of the Union. The last thing you want is that at some point the Venice Commission calls us and says: in your Union, a number of countries simply do not adhere to some basic principles. When that happens, of course, you're gonna look like an idiot. If that's the question, we'll always be looking for allies. There are. Many countries in Europe are on our side, to a greater or lesser extent. That's what we're going through with, because it's so important.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u120	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u121	This was the formation of 2012. It's more than a market, it's also a community of values, dixit Diederik Samsom. A number of questions have also been asked about democratization in the European Union. I have already said that we attach great importance to the correct application of Article 17. That's what we think happened. The priority now is, of course, that the Commission should pass through the hearings, be able to work and implement the strategic agenda of the European Council, which is very much in line with the state of the Union that has been agreed here. That process of appointments is now under way. Apart from that, there will be a conference on the future of Europe. We're going to do vision development again. That's always good, so fine. If there is such a vision, we will, of course, relate to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u122	I'm gonna see if all the questions that have to do with this have been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u123	I have answered all the questions about democratisation and Frans Timmermans.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u124	A brief question, Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u125	The Prime Minister says: we hope that the new Commission, as it is now proposed, will pass through Parliament's hearings. Does that also apply to the Hungarian candidate, who still has a dubious track record when it comes to democracy?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u126	I just need to see if it's up to me in the division of roles as head of government to find out about nominated Commissioners. It seems to me that the European Parliament is now really on the move. I think I need to be steady for a while. Is that right? Yes, yes, I'm nodded by my official advisors. They're often right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u127	That's too bad. That's all I'm gonna say about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u128	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u129	Then there are a few things about the priorities. Von der Leyen, of course, gave a speech and said things. We don't agree with everything. I don't really want to go through that whole set right now. In general, we are very pleased with her appointment. We think she's going to be a good President of the European Commission. I had a good talk with her yesterday, too, and I've known her a long time. So I think she will be a good President of the Commission. Certainly on issues such as migration, climate, 'digital', the projection of Europe on the world stage and strong external European action, there are very good things. The conversation yesterday was wide. We have actually been going over the whole agenda as it is in the future. I have, of course, also shared a number of Dutch priorities and desiderata with her. You know this; these are the Dutch positions in many areas. Maybe I'll go into some of them a little more specifically. As far as asylum and migration are concerned, I believe that we all agree that the whole system is now stuck and that it is very important to try now to pull the whole discussion on the common asylum package from the principles of solidarity and responsibility. I was asked about my conversation with Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the new Greek colleague. We also discussed European migration policy yesterday, of course, but I also said that I am pleased with the way he is now making a very active effort to give Turkey/Europa deal a boost and to implement structural improvements on the Greek islands. The Netherlands is closely involved in this. It is also very important to speed up asylum procedures there. One of the problems is that they are now too slow. He's working really hard on that. I have heard something about the conversation between Von der Leyen and Pompeo, but it is obviously not for me to report it now. On 24 May, you received a letter from Mr Koolmees on the EU minimum wage. I would like to refer to that. With regard to the carbon tax at the border, our view is that we need to look very closely at its effects on the competitiveness of European industry, because the fight against climate change must strengthen this competitiveness and not weaken it and must also be WTO-compliant. We are not opposed to this in advance, but these are critical questions. We are opposed to European unemployment insurance; I think we know that. These were comments on a number of proposals. Of course, she is free to say everything in her speeches and also to have views. If there's a hair in the soup somewhere, you don't say: oh, I don't like that hair; we don't do that. I do not know anyone in Europe with whom I fully agree. There are then, as Mr Mulder pointed out, just the procedures that indicate what should ultimately be decided unanimously, what is European and what should not be regulated at European level. Social security, in general terms, is, of course, a Member State competence, as he rightly observed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u130	I have a question on the enforcement of rules by the European Commission. The Juncker Committee called itself "a political committee." The Stability and Growth Pact was being negotiated. The cabinet has said that once or twice. That supervision should be more independent. Has the Prime Minister brought this to the new President of the Commission, for example on the issue of independent monitoring of the Stability and Growth Pact?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u131	What I achieved in detail yesterday is the importance of a strict application of the Stability and Growth Pact. I've shared my deep concerns about Italy with the incoming president again. The Netherlands published a vision in September 2011 in which we say that you should actually have a European Commissioner comparable to the Commissioner for Competition and who is completely independent. That proposal didn't make it then. In the end, however, the Commissioner dealing with the implementation of the Stability and Growth Pact has become more independent. It is not the case that the Netherlands now intends to adopt that position of September 2011, for which, in my opinion, there would be no support now either. Our priority now is to ensure that there is no extension in the application of the Stability and Growth Pact and that we apply it strictly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u132	Now that the Prime Minister is so clear about what he brought up yesterday during that discussion, I am also curious whether he, tipped by Mrs Leijten, has also brought up the Dutch view that the European Commission should be smaller. In fact, I also have the question that Mr Omtzigt has just asked about the appointment of Selmayr. Is that the kind of thing that came up?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u133	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u134	Do they come at other times? And why not? Because at the moment such a smaller Commission is perhaps not such a crazy point to mention to the colleague who has known the Prime Minister for so long.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u135	No, because that's not what she's about. This is ultimately a matter for the European Council and there is absolutely no support in the European Council for a smaller Commission. I've argued that here before. In due course, I am expressing this view, but Von der Leyen is the wrong P.O. Box for that. It must now work with the political situation that exists, and that is a Commission of 27 or 28. It cannot decide on its own to reduce the Commission. There is now no support for this from the Heads of Government.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u136	I can imagine that the Prime Minister thinks that we should do it with Mrs von der Leyen in the coming years and that he therefore does not completely defeat her, but he calls her 'an excellent candidate' here. I wonder what it has meant to him that Mrs von der Leyen has left the German Ministry of Defence and the German Defence Force as a mess. Does this mean nothing to you if you judge her candidacy?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u137	Mr De Roon, with his usual subtlety, expressed his view of its functioning as German Minister of Defence. I have a different picture of that. It is well known that the German armed forces are dealing with a number of very important strategic issues. In the feedback I received from Jeanine Hennis and Ank Bijleveld, who have maintained very close and good relations with Ursula von der Leyen, it appears that they are impressed by the way she has worked to strengthen the German armed forces. It is a long-term process and a number of problems are also similar to the problems of the Dutch armed forces. Look at filling the vacancies. In countries such as Germany and the Netherlands with very low unemployment, there is a huge pressure on the labour market to fill vacancies. This is one of the problems facing the German armed forces. I therefore disagree with Mr De Roon's subtle assessment of the operation of the German Defence Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u138	That one refers to it in the women's circle to which the Prime Minister refers...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u139	Isn't that a little sexist, Mr. Chairman? Pff...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u140	... I think you were able to get along well, but if you consult German and other defence experts about the situation that arose in that ministry, how she left it and how the armed forces were left behind, then the opinion of Mrs Von der Leyen is really extremely negative.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u141	I'm never so sensitive to men's/women's issues and I'm really not the first to say anything about sexism, but I think this is such a wrong remark, that remark about a women's circle. I am so proud that this post of the Minister of Defence is now filled by women all over the world and that girls who are now born can become Chancellor of Germany or President of the House of Representatives. That's the wrong thing to say! Brr...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u142	So I don't have to say anything more. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u143	Sorry. I just needed to get this off my chest. Ms Lagarde was nominated as the new President of the ECB on 2 July. On 8 July, the Eurogroup discussed the appointment of the ECB President in preparation for the Ecofin meeting on 9 July. He then unanimously, with the support of the Netherlands, recommended to the European Council that Mrs Lagarde be appointed new President. On 25 July, the Governing Council of the European Central Bank adopted an opinion stating that there is no objection to the nomination, which is not legally binding but important. There is a consultation with the European Parliament on 4 September, so that is today. The European Parliament then votes by secret ballot, that is the procedure, by simple majority. That vote too is not legally binding. In October, the euro countries will vote by qualified majority in the European Council. I would like to assure Mr Omtzig that, in the annotation of that agenda of the European Council, we will address the question of why the Dutch Government supports Mrs Lagarde's nomination as President of the European Central Bank. For me, its functioning as director of the IMF weighs heavily. I think that it has given excellent guidance to this great international and financial organisation at a very difficult time when, in addition to the more traditional tasks, the IMF has also been involved in a number of major European issues: Ireland, Cyprus, Portugal and Greece. I do not think it has been easy to convince other countries that the rich Europe also needed help. She also raised other issues. I have, of course, also heard Mr Omtzigt very well. He has a number of concerns about the ECB's policy. However, I must always take the view that we need to work hard here, taking account of the division of labour in the European Union. We've had that discussion before. It is not for me to publicly philosophise about the European Central Bank's policy. I thought there was a general discussion with the Minister of Finance on a number of ECB issues scheduled for next week. Anyway, in general, this is my reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u144	Maybe it's okay...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u145	Sorry, excuse me. I saw Mr Omtzigt walking forward and then I went to look at my pieces. Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u146	Yeah, okay. I want...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u147	I'm almost done. Very soon. Dijsselbloem didn't come forward himself. His name came up immediately when the vacancy came up. You saw it in a bunch of media messages. On 12 July it was announced that the Netherlands would nominate a candidate. Then it is always the case that we deal with this very confidentially in order to maximise the chances. A lot of roads are followed to see how you can do that. This is done through direct contact with all kinds of stakeholders, European and otherwise, and with Heads of Government and through diplomatic channels. Every channel that is legally at our service will then be used for this. There was a field of five candidates, but in the end it was narrowed to a field of two candidates, where he became second and thus lost. The Netherlands is one of the leading countries in the European Union. It does not belong to the group of countries with very large economies, but in the ranking it is number 5 out of 27. I told you, if these kinds of vacancies arise and the Netherlands has good people, then we have to participate. If that goes well, that's everyone's success. If it goes wrong, it's my fault. That's the spirit. And this went wrong, so it's my fault. But I think that, when we have good people, we should always try to obtain such a position.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u148	Well, I heard the Prime Minister say he's almost done. That's what I'd like to do first...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u149	This was about Dijsselbloem. I have a few very short general questions, but about Dijsselbloem this was my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u150	Yes. Mrs Leijten has a question about Dijsselbloem. Can that be true?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u151	Well, not so much about the former Finance Minister as about the conduct of this procedure, because I agree with the Prime Minister when he says that we should go for top positions if we have good candidates. I really agree with him. But what is the position of the Chamber in such top positions? That's what I talked to him about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u152	No position. Sorry. The government is here on the assumption that she has the trust of the Chamber. We're doing our job; this is doing our job. But we are not going to ask the Chamber: may we recite Mr. Dijsselbloem? That's not gonna work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u153	No, I understand that, too. The Prime Minister can make a joke of it...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u154	No, I'm serious.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u155	... but there was just a European summit. It was a summit of the Finance Minister, but we were not even informed about it. That's not even been notified to us. Nor have we been told that we would go for this European top position. My point is that we all read this in the paper. We can all follow those live blogs. This happened around the job summit, which led to this debate, but it also happened when the top man or woman was appointed to the post at the IMF. Then we'll hear everything from the media and we won't hear from the government. Doesn't the Prime Minister find that problematic?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u156	No, sorry. We work here on the basis of the trust rule. It is impossible for us to ask the Chamber: do you think that is a good idea? It can't be.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u157	I'm not saying that. I'm not saying that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u158	What are we supposed to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u159	Well: there is a summit; we have a candidate; we do our very best; we will inform you afterwards. I've asked questions about that, too. If we ask Parliament questions about this, who was informed and what exactly happened? It is said that people were aware of this, but we do not make any statements about it. If one group does know but the other group does not, then that is not informing the Chamber right away. It's a cabinet decision. This Chamber controls the cabinet and must then be aware of a cabinet decision. If that is not possible at the time when that appointment is taking place, which I can still understand, then it will happen afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u160	Well, that's what we're doing now, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u161	No, that's not the case with the parliamentary questions, and you're not doing that here again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u162	And what are you missing about information now? No, seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u163	"There is a telephone meeting of Finance Ministers. We'll let the room know about that. In any case, this is about the candidate for the IMF." But we didn't even get a note or a cat bell.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u164	No, but after all...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u165	We can't even decide as a Chamber whether we're all coming back from recess or letting this pass. That's not right. Even when you went to Brussels for the summit on jobs, we got a little cat bell with: there is a summit and that's all I can say. But nothing like this has been reported to the Chamber. It's not supposed to be like that, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u166	What is going on here, of course, and that is different from the appointment of a new President of the European Commission or of another President, is that it is important for the nomination of a new director of the IMF to try to achieve a single common candidate in Europe. It finally became Kristalina Georgieva. By the way, she is an excellent candidate. I know her well, as a second wife, as a second person, as number two of the World Bank. An excellent candidacy. I think Jeroen Dijsselbloem is even better, so I would have liked to have seen Jeroen Dijsselbloem there, but I couldn't. But she's also very good. Part of that process is that eventually informally it was all informally looked at how we could achieve European consensus. This was not a formal meeting of the Eurogroup or of the Ecofin Council. That has been informal telephone consultation. They're part of a lobby. Wopke Hoekstra participated in that. I can report that here. But you can't say in advance that there's going to be an informal meeting. In this case, this was organised by the French Finance Minister, representing the G7 Presidency. You can't call that in. Afterwards, you have to answer for that. That's what I do here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u167	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u168	Afterwards, there will be no question of being held accountable, because these questions have been answered wretchedly. But I will put them again, to this Prime Minister. So I'll get the answers, because he thinks he should answer afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u169	I thought those parliamentary questions were well answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u170	What matters to me is that it is well known that Dijsselbloem was the Dutch candidate, and Olli Rehn of France, and Mrs Calvino of Spain. That's just what the paper said. It's just in the paper! It is simply said that Dijsselbloem is in Greece to promote his candidacy. It is not good for democracy that we should read all this in the newspaper. As far as I'm concerned, we really don't need to have Dijsselbloem's itinerary in advance. But afterwards we just get a letter saying: this is our commitment, but it didn't work; that's how the proportions were. If the Prime Minister is not prepared to do so, he does not care about the Dutch Parliament. That is not what he should be expressing on the second day of the new parliamentary year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u171	You've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u172	This is just not true. I really think that the House of Representatives should always be well and properly informed. But at the same time the cabinet also works on the assumption that the majority of the House of Representatives has the confidence that it does the good things for the Netherlands and that it gives as much information about it as possible afterwards. The following problem also arises. If you start sketching every step in detail... I've seen those Chamber questions. I think Hoekstra answered it on behalf of the cabinet. I've taken note of that. I fully agree with the questions put to the House. If you go further than that, you will at some point also have access to tactics, in how you handle things. That could weaken another case. So we just shouldn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u173	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u174	Mr. Chairman. There are, of course, internal procedures for the appointment of the new Secretary-General. We will continue to ensure that these procedures are adhered to. The European Parliament and the Ombudsman will also monitor this. Then about Bulgaria. The Netherlands has not made any commitments to this effect. As you know, the Netherlands has its views on Bulgaria's accession to Schengen. Nothing has changed. I welcome the fifty-fifty division of men and women in the Commission. I have not prepared myself for this debate on the case of the whistleblower Roeli Post. I don't think I should try to answer this quickly now either, because I don't know enough details. All I know is the sensitivity. I have received a suggestion of an answer, but I have nevertheless considered not to do so at the end of the day. Then I try to do that with too little background on this subject, which is so sensitive. Questions have been asked by Mr Omtzigt to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I suggest it gets further back there. Then the Asscher/Jetten motion on the development goals as a starting point for the Dutch commitment in Europe. In line with that Asscher/Jetten motion, the cabinet is working in Europe. I think it's a success, too. You can now see that the Dutch Council Conclusions of April call for an EU-wide implementation strategy, with concrete measures, with deadlines, to implement the 2030 Agenda in overall EU policies. In this way, the Dutch commitment is also that of the Council. I believe that this is also right to honour the Asscher motion. That is also in line with what Timmermans was the first vice president to bring out on 31 January. The European Union's commitment is a discussion paper on the SDGs, Towards a sustainable Europe by 2030. We remain committed to this. I can assure Mrs Ploumen here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u175	Thank you. Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u176	With regard to ECB policy, I had asked a question about what is now threatening. This is because the banks are going to be compensated for the low interest rates and so they will be able to store their money at the ECB at around 0% interest rates. This means that pensioners from southern Europe who save through the bank still receive 0% interest...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u177	And that question hasn't been answered?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u178	... but that pension funds do not get that opportunity. Does the Dutch Government have an opinion on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u179	Mr. Chairman. I find all sorts of things about that, but I also think, as I said earlier, that I really do not have ECB policy... We once made a plea, then with Maastricht and then with the introduction of the euro, that the ECB should be independent. I really need to hold on to that. So I find all kinds of...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u180	But you must also stick to today's topic.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u181	... and that may not be so different from the concerns I hear in Mr Omtzigt's question. But I really need to slow myself down to say something about that in public.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u182	Yes, but we must also stick to today's topic.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u183	The appointment of the President of the European Central Bank is actually the only time that politics can decide whether or not a particular person does. Since it is known in advance whether someone has a certain view of monetary policy, that is actually a point why you are also implicitly talking about what kind of person you are putting there. Are you putting the President of the Deutsche Bundesbank there, or are you putting the President of the Greek central bank there? This is not just a question of nationality, it is also a question of direction. That is precisely why this question is before us today in this debate. The reason I am asking is not so much whether we consider it desirable, because I think that the Prime Minister and I feel the same way. But do we think that the European Central Bank can now find something about compensation, about the gap rich and poor, and even think that it can compensate savers through banks and not through pension funds? Is that within the mandate?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u184	Again, I think that is something I cannot talk about in public. What Mr Omtzigt is saying here is: yes, but it is here, because the appointment... I understand that he says that, but that is the bridge to discuss the whole ECB policy in theory through that appointment. He is taking this point out now, but if I go into that now, then I cannot block him from raising the whole of the ECB's policy and then going against Lagarde's candidacy. So I shouldn't. I really shouldn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u185	Thank you. Let us now move on to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mrs Leijten on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u186	Mr. Chairman. First of all, the Prime Minister said he fully supports Mr. Hoekstra's answer to the parliamentary questions. I would simply ask him to answer Question 8 in which I asked: has there been any contact with parliamentary groups or group chairmen about the candidacy? If so, which were informed at what time? You can just clarify that after all, can't you? Why would you shut up about that? Why would you cover that up in a general statement that you are in contact with many people during a trial and that you cannot reconstruct it? You can just say that, can't you? Because it's about the Chamber's information position. There could have been an excellent notification about this telephone finance council, why it was organized, why the voting procedure was in the hands of the French. All of that could have been fine. It could even have said: The Netherlands thinks about a candidate, just like Spain, just like Finland, because it is not the one who takes the votes. You could have done all that, and that's what you're supposed to do. Finally, I have another motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that transparency is important in the implementation of top European and international positions;]] [[invites the government to inform the House of Representatives about the process, selection, nomination and commitment of the Dutch government in the implementation of European and international top positions, preferably in advance or during the process, and where necessary afterwards,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1470]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u187	Thank you, Mrs Leijten. Mr Verhoeven? No, I am looking at Mr Van Ojik on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u188	Mr. Chairman. Faster than I thought. I was counting on Mr Verhoeven. It seems as if the Prime Minister is generally quite satisfied with the way things have been in the past summer. It is a pity that there will not be a Dutch President of the European Commission, but we have been given an excellent candidate instead. We have Article 17 which provides that the European Council may nominate someone and that Parliament may or may not agree to that nomination. So on that side too, it's actually good. I see it something else. I see that at a very late stage a candidate has come out of the top hat that has never been mentioned anywhere before. It will then only get the European Parliament behind it by making a very long list of promises that seem to have been built on quicksand even before the new European Commission has even taken office. At least one leader of the government has already said here today: that does not mean that we actually take care of all these promises. I think it would be a good thing if my specific question to the Prime Minister was to re-examine what has been going on this summer and see if it could be done better in the future. I would have liked to have heard that from the Prime Minister, but that is still possible, because he is going to answer the questions we are asking in the second term. I look forward to that with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u189	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. I thank the Prime Minister for his answers. I agree with the question that Mr Van Ojik has just asked when it comes to looking back at what happened last summer. I ask this not so much for myself, but for all those people who voted here in the Netherlands at the PvdA, at Frans Timmermans. I would also ask the Prime Minister, when it comes to the content, to ensure that the promise made by the newly appointed President when it comes to a more social Europe, a greener Europe, is followed critically and, if necessary, to stop. Finally, I would like to encourage him to press ahead vigorously with further strengthening the conditionality of countries that do not respect the values we all stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u190	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the answers. Thank you for informing us in the annotated agenda of the October European Council about the position of the Netherlands in relation to the votes, because they are not just about the European Central Bank, and the reason for voting for or against a candidate. I've got two more motions. The first one is about whistleblower Roelie Post. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Mr Timmermans made a clear statement on the protection of whistleblowers;]] [[having noted that Ms Roelie Post wrote a whistleblower letter to the Prime Minister of the Netherlands, when the Netherlands was President of the European Union;]] [[noting that the problem it raised, child trafficking in cross-country adoptions, has in no way been solved;]] [[calls on the Dutch Government and Mr Timmermans to find a decent solution both for the case and for the person concerned and to inform the Chamber before 25 October,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1471]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u191	Perhaps on the occasion of this motion I can give a tip to the Prime Minister, because it was resolved. There was a commitment, following mediation by the European Parliament, among others by my colleague Dennis de Jong, between Timmermans and Selmayr on the one hand and Roelie Post on the other, that there was a solution. At the time the elections had been held, that solution had disappeared. If the Prime Minister gets on with this, he can just get that old solution back on the table, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u192	That is a very justified and valuable addition from my colleague, because the colleague from the SP has been extremely hard on this. I am also going to hold this motion for a week, because I suspect that, given the explanation in the first term, the Prime Minister will respond to this in writing. I understand the difficulties in the many cases, but this case is extremely serious. Otherwise, I wouldn't file this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u193	At the request of Mr Omtzigt, I propose his motion (21501-20, No. 1471) to be retained. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u194	Then there's a ruling from the Chamber. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are plans for tiering of interest rates, which effectively provides banks with a higher rate of interest: less negative interest rate if they hold money at the ECB, but that these plans do not provide for this possibility for pension funds and pension insurers;]] [[points out that, under neutral monetary policy, there should be no difference in compensation for people who save for a pension through a bank account and those who save through a pension fund for their pension,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-20-1472]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u195	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u196	Mr. Chairman. Once with Ploumen about conditionality regarding constitutional principles and the combination. I am going to try to answer Mr Van Ojik as well in relation to this summer. I have already mentioned a few elements. It's not like I'm happy looking back on this summer. I would have been satisfied if Frans Timmermans had become President of the European Commission, and that did not happen. By the way, I had hoped that Jeroen Dijsselbloem would become director at the IMF. Kristalina Georgieva is a fine director of the IMF and Ursula von der Leyen is, I think, a good President of the European Commission, so I am not saying: wrong people have been appointed, but we had better. Even better. It would also have been nice if the Dutch had been there, but that was not possible. Nevertheless, I keep saying: if we have good people, the Netherlands must always try to do so. I will leave the Dijsselbloem candidature aside for a moment, because that is a global function, and this debate is, of course, mainly about the President of the European Commission. I've already said a few things about that. The Netherlands, and I really believe this, is trying to have such a lobby across a broad front. We have come a long way, but eventually there may also be obstacles. It can't work either. The combination I outlined of the four Visegrád countries and the political desire in the PPE-DE that situation there had nothing to do with Timmermans did not make it possible in the end. Of course, it's always like that: if you stick your neck out, it can go wrong. The strength of these two candidates is that Timmermans is now full of energy on the first Vice-Presidentship. We wish him a nice portfolio and, of course, try to help him. From what you hear about different options, there, I think, comes something very nice out of it. The same goes of course for Jeroen Dijsselbloem. He has a wonderful role in the Netherlands and has been an excellent Minister of Finance, and is someone very dear to me, in every respect. But he's also someone who realizes: if I stick my neck out, it can't work either. And it didn't work out here. It is therefore not the case that we now have to learn a whole bunch of lessons about what mistakes we have made. You always make mistakes, but sometimes something just doesn't work out. Here the combined resistance was too great. I cannot say in public exactly where it was at the IMF, because it has not become public. Timmermans did. That is where the media saw the resistance, partly against him and partly the situation in the EPP was complicating. But I still think that if we have good people, we should keep trying, even if we can't do it forever. Then there's the motions. The motion in part No. 1470 is support policy, so no objection. On the motion in part No. I am not going to respond now, but I suggest that I ask the Foreign Minister to respond to this at the General Affairs Council meeting on Tuesday evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u197	But that motion has been held, hasn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u198	Yes, but I still think that advice should be given in the procedure. And I was wondering how I would prevent letters from being sent, because that would cost administrative capacity again. Tuesday night he's still here for the AO RAZ. Then I'll admit he'll respond to this motion. The motion in part No. 1472 doesn't ask the government. That's a statement from the Chamber, so I don't have to advise on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u199	Thank you. That is what brought us to the end of this debate. I thank the Prime Minister, the MPs and the people in the public gallery.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-4.u200	I think we are going to vote next Tuesday on the motions tabled.
