ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-4.u1	The next item is the continuation in plenary of a general discussion on SUWI topics, held on 20 February last. The first speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Jasper van Dijk of the Socialist Party with two minutes' speaking time; the same goes for the other people who have called in for motions or questions to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment, whom I warmly welcome in our midst. Mr. Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. There are big problems at the UWV. We have talked about this. I have three motions to remedy those problems. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the UWV has become a mega-organisation through mergers;]] [[noting that this has made the UWV unclear and vulnerable, resulting in fraud;]] [[calls on the government to consider how to divide the UWV into small-scale units,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that the UWV is plagued by abuses, including WW fraud;]] [[Whereas the UWV has little independent supervision as an independent administrative body;]] [[calls on the Government to make a proposal for independent supervision of the UWV,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26448-611]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26448-612]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-4.u3	Mr. Chairman. The final motion is about the insurance doctors. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is a significant shortage of insurance doctors at the UWV;]] [[noting that the level of remuneration plays a role in this, partly because the remuneration for comparable job weights is higher than the remuneration of insurance doctors;]] [[calls on the government to make a proposal to balance the remuneration of insurance doctors at the UWV more closely with similar functions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26448-613]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-4.u4	Mr President, thank you. We used this AO mainly to talk about the UWV. That was also necessary, because in recent times there has been a lot of news coverage in which the UWV came out less positive. The UWV has an important task, namely to pay out to the good people. That should not be discussed, but it has been discussed. Together with Mr Gijs van Dijk, we have therefore made a number of proposals in the AO to deal with the problems now, but also to keep in mind the future and to look at how we can do better in the future. That's why I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas major changes such as further digitisation and robotisation also have a major impact on the labour market and the way we provide benefits and help people to work;]] [[noting that the Minister is prepared to take a fundamental look at the implementation of social security and what forms fit the labour market of the future;]] [[noting that the Minister wishes to involve the results of the Committee on Labour Control;]] [[Whereas the form in which social security takes shape may be important for future labour market choices;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out a future assessment of the implementation of social security, reflecting different scenarios;]] [[calls on the government to start this exploration soon and to send to the Chamber both an initial analysis and a plan for the exploration of the results of the committee on labour regulation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee;]] [[noting that abuse of this safety net, as we have seen recently, must be prevented at all times;]] [[Whereas the Minister points out that new methods of fraud are being devised over and over again;]] [[whereas different implementing bodies are involved in abuse and both flexible cooperation and expertise are essential;]] [[calls on the Government, under the responsibility of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment, to set up a fraud council in which social security enforcement officers exchange knowledge within various bodies and coordinate their approach,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wiersma and Mr Gijs van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26448-614]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wiersma and Mr Gijs van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26448-615]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-4.u5	Finally. The Minister has also made a number of commitments, of which I would like to reiterate the most important, namely the commitment to look in the existing dates at what is known about fraud signals and how we can get that money back. That's more than he'd promised so far. I'm glad. Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-4.u6	Thank you, Mr. Wiersma. I give the floor to Mr Smeulders van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-4.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I won't file any motions. I had actually given up zero minutes of speaking time, also because I do not think we can solve the problems at the UWV with a few motions, although I understand very well that some of my colleagues are trying to do so. The fact that I am standing here has to do with the letter we received yesterday from Mr Koolmees in response to a request I made earlier in the organisation of work on the fact that the UWV works council went to court to stop a major ICT project. I find that very exemplary for what we have been going through since I was in the Chamber around the UWV. We need news from the media about the UWV. During the AO SUWI that happened again. At that time it was about the issue that assessments may not have been carried out by insurance doctors. During the AO it is also about ICT projects. Then nothing is said in the vein of: we have a very large ICT project which is not very good and which the works council also has great reservations about. And yes, a few days after that, we have to read that again on the front page of one of our biggest newspapers. That is why I am standing here, Mr President. On the basis of the AO, but above all on the basis of that document and the letter the Minister wrote about it, I simply feel unsatisfied. How many times are we gonna go through this? How many times are we going to experience that we think: well, apparently something is happening at the UWV that we don't know, but the Minister is also freaking out and is going to take action? A few days later, it turns out there's something new. Can the Minister reflect on this and indicate in this particular case whether he already knew about it? And perhaps more importantly, what is he going to do to eliminate these problems? I believe that the Minister himself has a role to play in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-4.u8	Thank you, Mr. Smeulders. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van Brenn, who is 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-4.u9	Mr. Chairman. I intend to do the same as Mr Smeulders. Last year the Minister reassured the Chamber, in response to my critical questions and to the motion I tabled together with colleagues Smeulders, Gijs van Dijk and Stoffer, on the overall direction and communication within the UWV and between UWV and the Ministry of SZW, to examine it. That was firmly rejected. There was a soothing response: none of it was necessary. The motion was then rejected, thanks to VVD, CDA, D66 and Christian Union. Now I read in the letter of 7 March, with unusual muscle language from the minister, that part of the UWV evaluation is being brought forward and that an independent investigation will be launched to see whether the roles and responsibilities of the ministry and UWV and the owner and supervisor are sufficiently clear and sufficiently robust. In doing so, the scope and positioning of these roles and the exchange of information are explicitly addressed. Well, Mr. Chairman, that seems suspiciously like the execution of our motion. What did I miss? What's different from October last year? Is it the ongoing incidents surrounding the UWV or is it the permanent public outrage? Is it moving insight? Or is this minister a windvane, which is now conveniently focused on the electoral winds of the approaching elections? Maybe the Minister can explain this after all. Mr. Chairman. The irritation at 50PLUS remains, because in the debate in February we saw a minister living in denial. Ostrich politics. He puts his head in the sand and denies reality. He continues to believe that the UWV controls sufficiently in the event of dismissal on business grounds, even though his own inspection says that this is absolutely not the case. It's a disgrace, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-4.u10	Thank you very much, Mrs Van Brenn. The next speaker is Mr Gijs van Dijk of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-4.u11	Thank you, Mr President. We have many debates here on the quality of implementation. Last night we had a debate with Minister Van Nieuwenhuizen on the issue of people sitting at home because they cannot catch the car because there is a huge delay at the CBR. That is also an implementation organisation of the government. We know the problems at the IRS, which I think the Secretary of State is working on 24 hours a day. And we know the problems at the UWV. Those are all three very important agencies, just in people's lives. I think this concerns us all and that we must ensure that, if we are to make new plans, we can implement them. Implementation is, of course, essential. It is essential that we get enough in through the Tax Administration, but also that we can pay a decent benefit without this being fraud. But it has to go fast and well. This is more of a reflection. This isn't something I'm gonna solve right now or what we're gonna solve here. But it is true that we now have two ministers and one secretary of state who are more closely monitoring their own implementation organisation. So there's something really going on here. Maybe that's something to discuss in the cabinet a little bit more. With Mr Wiersma we have made several proposals for improvements to the UWV. There are a lot of problems there, too. To encourage the Minister, I'll file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are shortages of medical examiners at the UWV and sick people have to wait long because of this;]] [[Whereas if you are ill, you want to be assisted by a doctor quickly and with the best support;]] [[calls on the government to make maximum efforts to speed up delays, e.g. by increasing the number of medical examiners,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Wiersma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26448-616]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-4.u12	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-4.u13	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-4.u14	I am happy to give the floor to our Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-4.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for your questions and motions for resolutions. Already on 20 February, we spoke in the AO SUWI topics about the SVB and in particular about the UWV. Last Thursday I sent you a letter informing you about a number of topics and in which I indicate how I work together with the UWV to improve the performance. Several investigations have already been announced following previous debates, for example on WW fraud, including a cultural investigation and an investigation into how the UWV deals with signals. As a responsible minister, I think it is important that dilemmas in implementation are discussed in a timely, open and thorough manner. At the same time, it is important to create stability and peace now, also for the organisation of the UWV itself. I spoke yesterday at a job market with four UWVs who were also heavily affected by all the signals of recent times and all the media coverage, which they of course face in private conditions, at parties. They emphasize that there is also a lot going on in the execution. At the same time, there is still much work to be done to improve on parts. So I think it is important that this stability and tranquility should return to the organisation and that there is the confidence to discuss, address and address openly the problems of implementation, which are, of course, always there, so as to improve the quality of service. I have consulted intensively with the UWV's board of directors on measures to improve implementation and accountability of this implementation. For example, I have announced that the position of the existing audit committee of the UWV will be strengthened. This committee looks critically at the business processes, risk management and information flows to my department, and therefore also from me to your Chamber. It is expected that, by strengthening this, dilemmas and risks will be addressed earlier. The UWV is currently working on this and looking at the assignment, the scope and the resources. I also examine the possibilities to strengthen supervision and risk management. To this end, I would like to highlight part of the SUWI evaluation, which would actually take place in 2021. In this I also look at the roles and responsibilities between the client and the contractor, the owner and the supervisor. I'll see if these are filled out properly. The research will have to make clear what a good balance is between, on the one hand, the calmness and space needed for implementation and, on the other hand, the monitoring and monitoring of the steps we have taken in recent times to improve implementation. I would like to respond to Mrs Van Brenn as follows. In recent years, of course, there has been a lot of talk about the UWV. In early 2017, a Court of Auditors report was published which looked at the roles of owner versus execution, but also at the processes that could be improved. A step has been taken to improve that. Unfortunately, we have to note that this has not been enough. The report is from early 2017. Since then, of course, we have seen a number of incidents and problems come along, including in the media, which have led me and the board of the UWV to take steps together to further strengthen the implementation and also to learn exactly what is happening with the owner, execution, control and supervision. That's the background to this step and to my letter from last week. Mr Smeulders asked in that context...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-4.u16	I would very much like to have an explanation from the Minister on the final sentence of his letter, because you there... Well, maybe he can do the text statement. "I would point out that in several public execution organisations, where in the past targets have been (partly) filled with digitisation, dilemmas arise in the primary process in finding the right balance between service provision, enforcement and efficiency. That is why I will work with my colleagues in the Cabinet to see how these, in relation to policy and supervision, can be provided with structural and effective reflection."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-4.u17	This is exactly the point Mr Gijs van Dijk raised. He was right to note that there have recently been problems with more government executives. Think of the situation at the Tax Office, and I thought Mr Gijs van Dijk was also talking about Mrs Van Nieuwenhuizen's CBR. But we also see problems at DUO. This is also true in my portfolio, for example in the waiting lists that emerged from the taking of integration examinations. So there has indeed been substantial cuts in implementation in recent years. But choices have also been made to digitize processes. Specifically at the UWV, of course, the conscious choice has been made to no longer have personal guidance. We are now turning that back in the coalition agreement, because we have made 70 million available for personal guidance. This is not regulated overnight, but it does mean that we really do have to get back to it in the maintenance and service of the UWV for, for example, job seekers. And to Mr Gijs van Dijk I say that I deliberately wrote that last sentence of that letter in such a way that this point is indeed extended to colleagues in the Council of Ministers. We need to discuss how we deal with this within the Council of Ministers, because there are a lot of challenges, broad, in the implementation at the level of the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-4.u18	Mrs Van Brenk, you will have an opportunity to ask a short question. The same goes for Mr Jasper van Dijk, who I see at the interrupting microphone. I realise that the letter came after the general consultation, but you also understand that this is not a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-4.u19	I fully understand, Mr President. Do I have to translate the Minister's text freely as follows: we may have cut too much? Is that how I'm supposed to read it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-4.u20	I didn't say that, and now Mrs Van Brenn is putting words in my mouth. I note, however, that since 2010, and also since the financial and economic crisis, which has put pressure on public finances, there has indeed been cuts. That's what I said during the AO about SUWI topics. But choices have also been made for further digitisation. That also provides a lot of extra information. Mr Wiersma has just said: look what you can find in those data as regards fraud signals. So there are also a lot of things that are positive. But this has also led to other things. For example, there has been a lot of savings in personal services in recent years. As a result, the contact between a job seeker and the UWV was actually only digital. That led to frustration, even within the UWV itself. That is why we have allocated 70 million in the coalition agreement to invest in it. But there is a broader point, I would also like to say to Mr Gijs van Dijk. We see this not only at the UWV, but also elsewhere in the implementation organisations. And that certainly has the attention of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-4.u21	Mr President, I also had to frown my eyebrows when I read those sentences that Mrs Van Brenn just read to me. But let me approach it constructively. I think it is very sensible that this Minister, together with his colleagues, should consider how these issues can "be provided with effective reflection'. That's the very last sentence. Mr President, you will agree with me that, of course, Parliament needs to be properly informed here. When will we get the results of this "effective reflection"? When are they gonna come up with proposals? When can we have a fundamental debate on how the government organises these matters?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-4.u22	The first point, this broad reflection, has yet to take place. I am not just about that, because that is what all my colleagues are all about at all implementation organisations. So I can't say anything about the timetable yet. It does have my attention and I'm on it. As regards my own responsibility and that of Secretary of State Mrs Van Ark in the field of UWV and SVB, we have, of course, also designed the state of implementation. In this we actually inform your Chamber every year on main lines, not through thick packages of papers with all annual reports, which are actually less often read properly. It is precisely by presenting that state of execution that you can see in general how the implementation is going and where the risks are. That's one. And two: we have announced that there will be a letter about the detection of fraud signals. No, I need to take a step back. I have noted, also in the debate on WW fraud, that too often the Chamber has been informed about fraud. There was a good reason for this: we do not want to make fraudsters wiser by indicating how they can fraud. But I told the Chamber in October that I found that insufficient, because that does not give the Chamber sufficient idea of what is happening. So that fraud alert letter is really meant to better inform your Chamber about those fraud signals. Of course, there are always new developments, because fraudsters are inventive and find new ways to fraud, which I would like to inform your Chamber about. Sometimes that will have to be in confidence, because we don't need to make fraudsters wiser. But there are two things: the state of execution and the fraud warning letter, which are precisely intended to take your Chamber into account in the dilemmas of execution and the risks involved. In my opinion, this has happened too little in the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-4.u23	Thank you. A brief follow-up question from Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-4.u24	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. I appreciate this minister getting to work. But in the letter he also promises that the entire cabinet will in fact reflect on these matters. So it's the PM's case? More specifically, I would like to ask him whether he can inform us of the agenda for this effective reflection. Because I really think this is a serious and important subject, but it shouldn't be watered down, so we don't hear about it a year later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-4.u25	I agree with Mr Jasper van Dijk. Personally, I'm also very motivated to pick this up. Unfortunately, I cannot give a specific date, because I really need to discuss this with my fellow ministers. My point is this. We see in more areas I have mentioned DUO, CBR, Tax Service, UWV and NVWA these implementation problems, which I think we should learn from each other what you run into. We need to understand where the problems are and how we can solve them. After all, we all benefit from the proper implementation of our laws and regulations by the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-4.u26	Before I ask the Minister to give an appreciation of the motions tabled, Mr Gijs van Dijk of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-4.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's good to hear from the Minister that he wants to discuss this widely. I'm sure it will happen, but just to check it out: is the direction of the political leaders also taken into account versus the implementation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-4.u28	Sure. I made this explicit in the letter of two weeks ago when it comes to drawing up the evaluation of the SUWI. This is indeed about control, the role of owner, the role of execution. This is also different within the government: there are agencies, Zbo's and parts of the ministry itself, such as the Tax Administration. But that certainly has my attention. I want to put that evaluation forward to learn from that. Before I appreciate the motions, I would like to answer a general question by Mr Smeulders on the IV transition. Since we spoke about the UWV in February, a lot of news has been published about the IV transition at the UWV. I did indeed send you a letter yesterday on this subject with the latest state of affairs. The works council and the board of directors of the UWV are both convinced of the need for the IV transition, but they differ on parts of the opinion on its implementation. By the way, the IV transition is not new to your Chamber either. This is in the implementation of all ICT investments, the UIP, about which I have informed your Chamber, of which the IV transition is an important part, precisely in order to improve the service provision within the UWV. A lot has been said about this in recent years, also within the UWV between the board of directors and the works council. Unfortunately, they didn't get out of there. I said yesterday in my letter to your Chamber that fortunately they are still talking to each other to get out of this. At the same time, I also believe that the Governing Board has its own responsibility to ensure that these investments in ICT are carried out. Mr Smeulders actually asked a broader question about news that very often appears in the media, not from the Minister. I have just indicated to Mr Jasper van Dijk what I am doing to inform your Chamber better and more proactively about the implementation and the signs of fraud. At the same time, I must acknowledge that I am sometimes surprised by reports. When I walked into the AO last time at 3:00 p.m., suddenly there was a message on the RTL site, which also got me mugged. I think I have to be honest: that will continue to happen. Because it is a large organization with 18,000 people, in which conflicting interests exist. This is an example of this, where the responsibility lies within the UWV itself, i.e. the board of directors and the works council.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-4.u29	Here's the thing: ICT. I have asked additional questions about this with my colleague, Mr Middendorp. The interesting thing here is that the project itself is not wrong, that's very good, but that people in the organization say "there's so much happening; then we have to do this again" and that apparently they don't make it enough. This is also in line with the Minister's research into culture within the UWV. I think this is essential. All of us here can discuss or praise the execution, but people must be able to continue to live up to it. This is an interesting signal in that context. I ask the Minister to reflect on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-4.u30	On this particular point, I generally agree with Mr Wiersma. If those signs of concern are there at the works council, it is right that the board of directors should take them seriously. In my opinion, on the basis of what I have seen, it has also happened seriously. There's been a lot of talk about it. What is really a focus in the broad of course is the following. ICT is an important part of the service provided by UWV. Today, most of the ICT has been centrally organised. But part of this IV transition is to invest it more in a more decentralised way, in the different business areas: the Work Company, the cashing out and that kind of thing. There is broad agreement on this. There is also no discussion as to whether this is a sensible route, which is shared. What is discussed is about the humanisation and how it is designed internally. In the reactions I have seen criticism of the fact that there were many fragmented positions. Those are concerns that we need to work with. The board of directors is in consultation with the works council to address this. But the movement an sich is not a criticism. At least, it's widely shared. I think that is the most important thing, because that is about the service, about the ICT infrastructure and the stability of the UWV in the future. It is important that we invest proactively in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-4.u31	Thank you. Would you like to reach a verdict on the motions submitted?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-4.u32	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 611 by Mr Jasper van Dijk asks the government to examine how the UWV can be divided into small-scale units. We've already talked about that during the AO. Then I indicated that I am not in favour of this, because there are a lot of interfaces between the different parts of the UWV: payout, WORKING company, SMZ. That's why I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 612 calls on the government to make a proposal for independent supervision of the UWV. I'm a responsible minister and also a supervisor at the UWV. That is also the cabinet policy, as was shared with your Chamber in the summer of 2017. In last week's letter, we indicated that we are going to strengthen the position of the independent audit committee within the UWV, precisely at this point of supervision, or not really the supervision but the audit, so that the opposition and counter-thinking within the UWV is strengthened. This is in line with Mr Jasper van Dijk's motion, but the implementation is different. That's why I have to discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-4.u33	Just a moment about the audit committee; the word alone! I've just checked it out: on that committee is the chairman of the UWV. Isn't that an incredibly good example of the butcher who approves his own flesh? Hence my motion to really come up with independent supervision.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-4.u34	I cannot yet anticipate the exact details of how we are going to strengthen the audit committee. We're still talking to the UWV rvb. I think it's nice to discuss that with the UWV before I share it with you. Let me put it this way: I understand Mr Jasper van Dijk's question very well. That's the question I have.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-4.u35	The judgment on the motion in part No. 612 is: dissuade. Mr. Van Dijk?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-4.u36	This is striking, Mr President. The Minister understands my question. He himself says, "We're gonna improve surveillance." With that audit committee the chairman of the board is in. Isn't it a bit of a wash nose? Don't you understand my motion all the better?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-4.u37	Sorry, we'll talk past each other. I understand Mr Jasper van Dijk's question as to whether it is wise to have the chairman of the Management Board on the audit committee. That's one of the parts I'm talking about with the board of directors of the UWV. Part of the discussion is also the question of whether there should be a separate research budget to strengthen the position of the audit committee. That's a question, too. Another question is for example: we are now focusing very much on business operations, but isn't it much more important to look more broadly at the operation of the UWV itself? These questions play a role in the conversation between the UWV and myself about strengthening the independent audit committee. I'll take it into effect. I'll inform the Chamber about the design of that. I have some ideas about this, of course, but I think it's nice to discuss it with the UWV's board of directors first and to adjust it before I inform your Chamber, because then we'll really do it together. The UWV also has its own responsibility as a ZBO in its implementation. The motion in part No. 613, by Mr Jasper Van Dijk, asks the government to make a proposal to balance the remuneration of insurance doctors at the UWV with similar functions. Two weeks ago, I sent my ministry's report on the remuneration of insurance doctors, to your Chamber and also to the UWV, also thinking that this could be an input to the negotiations within the UWV on the collective agreement and on the remuneration. I put that in the accompanying letter, too. In the end, of course, this is simply a matter between the employer and the employee, between the UWV and the insurance doctors, but I think it is important that this information is on the table and that it can also be included in the negotiations. That is, of course, all for the purpose of resolving the deficit. But you also understand that I am not going to do collective bargaining for the UWV in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-4.u38	One more question. Do I understand that the Minister agrees with the intention of this motion, but that he wants to be at an appropriate distance from those negotiations? If I say that the Minister should encourage that these rewards are more balanced, does he agree with my motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-4.u39	I think we should have a clear division of roles here. I've commissioned an independent investigation into that reward in response to signals about remaining rewards. That happened under my responsibility. You've received that investigation. I sent that to the room. It says with all kinds of ifs and buts and disclaimers that there is indeed a difference. I sent that report to the UWV, to the board of the UWV, and I said: this is independent research into the reward; use it to your advantage. That's just different from what it says here. That's why I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-4.u40	Dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-4.u41	The motion in part No. 614, by Mr Wiersma and Mr Gijs van Dijk, invites the government to start an early exploration and at the time when the results of the Committee on Labour Control, the Borstlap Committee, appear, send both an initial analysis and a plan for the exploration to the Chamber. That's a motion I'm giving you, Chamber. I'd like to work on that proactively. The motion in part No. 615, also by Mr Wiersma and Mr Gijs van Dijk, the government calls for a fraud council to be set up under the responsibility of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment, in which social security enforcement officers exchange knowledge within various bodies and coordinate their approach. That's what we talked about during the AO. I'm in favour of that, so I'm also giving this motion a Chamber of Judgement. The final motion is the motion in part No. 616. That is another motion by Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Wiersma. They are a tandem in this field anyway. It was during the AO. This motion calls on the government to make maximum efforts to ensure that delays are made as quickly as possible. It's about the insurance doctors. In fact, it is broader about the capacity of the SMZ department. It says in the motion "for example by increasing the number of medical examiners." It's very good that it says "for example." I think that's one part of the solution. So I'm also giving this motion judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-4.u42	Thank you. Then we have come to the end of this VAO on SUWI topics. I would like to thank the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment for coming to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-4.u43	The votes on the motions tabled will take place next Tuesday.
