ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the Social Affairs and Employment budget, Section 35300-XV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u2	I would like to welcome the Minister and the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment. Today, we have come to the answers of the government. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u3	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to thank the members of your Chamber for the input yesterday. As you have seen, a set of written answers came to the Chamber last night. Yesterday in the debate I also received a number of interesting documents: Mr Stoffer and Mr Smulders' manifesto of mourning, Mr Bruins's action plan of craftsmanship, Mr Van Kent's minimum youth wage, Mr Gijs van Dijk's and, I think, Mr Smulders' report on the minimum wage. Mr. Chairman. We also met here last year, around the budget for 2019. At that time, the negotiations on the pension agreement had just ended. Your Chamber was right to ask me: how to proceed? I had to say, I'm going to have a lot of coffee. Well, that worked! It even made us a little famous. Fortunately, a year later, in a year, I can say that a number of great steps have been taken. The Labour Market Balance Act has been discussed in the Second and First Chambers and will enter into force on 1 January. We also had discussions with the social partners on the payment of wages in the event of illness and the WIA. Last year we reached an agreement on this just before Christmas. The first absenteeism and care policies are also offered to SME entrepreneurs on 1 January. I will come back to the plans for zzp in detail later, but they were found to meet European law concerns. But the law on the introduction of the minimum rate and the self-employed declaration is now in the consultation phase. People can now respond to the plans. The new integration system is also getting more and more shape. This internet consultation is also ongoing and we are having intensive discussions with stakeholders. And of course, there is now a pension agreement. I welcome the broad support that that agreement has received, including in this Chamber. We have achieved a great deal on all these dossiers, and the Secretary of State will be explaining her own files shortly. I thank Mr Gijs van Dijk for yesterday's compliments. I like to share it, because we have done it together, together with employers and employees, together with coalition and opposition and with the usual and unusual suspects. It was constructive and optimistic cooperation which, as far as I am concerned, also has the future. We are going to need this constructive, optimistic cooperation in the coming year, because I know better than anyone else: we are not here yet. In the coming year, I will be happy to discuss with your Chamber all these issues, the legislation, the preparation of the plans and how these plans will be drawn up in society. All these plans are needed to improve the functioning of the labour market, to make pensions future-proof and to enable everyone to participate in society. But then we're still not there. There are rightly fundamental discussions about the underlying structure of the labour market and about our social system. That is what we need to do, but in the meantime we need to take the necessary steps. We need to be able to think on foot, and we will do so in the near future. At the beginning of next year, at the end of January, you will receive the opinion of the Board of Directors of Work, the Borstlap Committee. I look forward to having an open debate on this with you. An open debate! But today I want to talk about the budget and the discussions that your Chamber brought in yesterday in the first term. I've got some blocks for the answer. First of all, the labour market. I would like to comment on the Borstlap Committee, on the plans forzzp and on the other questions. The second block is the pension agreement and the questions that have been asked about it. The third block is the labour, care and leave block and the fourth block is integration. We had a legislative discussion on this last week, but Mr De Graaf in particular asked a number of questions about it yesterday. I'll deal with that later. The Secretary of State will deal with the P Act, poverty and debt, and child care. By way of exception, at the end of my introduction, I would like to thank my officials. I see they're gonna take a good look. You're right! They have worked very hard over the past year. A lot of laws have been made and laws prepared. They have done a lot for the pension agreements, but also for the implementation. Think about the discussions about the UWV and the SVB. Think also of the budget that is now before us, a budget of nearly 85 billion. Finally, think of the support within my department. There is an enormous amount of work going on in many different areas. Think about integration and the integration law, the P-law, the debt problem. I would have liked to have said that here in my introduction. I thank you for that and also my compliments. Mr President, I am at my first block, the labour market. I'm going to deal with the questions in loose blocks. After a brief introduction, I would like to deal with the questions concerning the Borstlap Committee. Then I would like to discuss the subject of zzp a little longer; there were a lot of questions about this yesterday. Finally, the other questions on the labour market. I begin by saying that, fortunately, the labour market is still in a very good position. There are now 9 million workers in the Netherlands, the highest number ever. Employment continues to grow in 2020, although at a slower pace than in recent years. At the same time, unemployment is expected to rise slightly, of course to 3.5% by 2020. This is because more people are looking for jobs in the tight labour market. Those are wonderful numbers, but they don't tell the whole story. In a speech last week at LabourLawLands, I told you about three tomato pickers. They're doing the exact same job. The first has a permanent employment, the second has a temporary employment contract and the third is self-employed. Thus, all a different construction, but they do share a fragile negotiating position and few opportunities on the labour market. You can turn that image around, too. Think of those threezzp'ers who are all the same before the law, which we also treat fiscally the same, although in practice they do fundamentally different work. A painter, an ICT guy and a meal delivery guy. The legal treatment does not justify their differences between them. That doesn't make any sense. If you look more closely, you will see an increasing segregation across the entire labour market, with people at the bottom who work in all kinds of structures, who are vulnerable, and at the top people with a strong position and also a strong negotiating position. In the middle groups you see people who feel increasingly uncertain about their future because of all developments. I find that a worrying gap. I mentioned him: the gap between the cans and the cans. It is no longer the old contradiction between the haves and the portots, but the new contradiction between the cans and the cans. Between those who get opportunities at work, who can receive training and who are healthy, and those who suffer from health problems, with a moderate network or people we find too old, as Mrs Van Brenn said yesterday. They keep going from flex contract to flex contract and just don't get in the way. These are fundamental problems in the current labour market. I feel the same way in your room. The cause is not easy to identify. Many factors play a role in this. More dynamics in the economy, technology, increasing life expectancy and changing preferences, changing preferences of workers, to name but a few. Not to mention our own legislation, which unintentionally increases the differences in the labour market, and thus also pushes the problem in the wrong direction. Mr. Chairman. Our system is over its expiration date. I know: those are big words, but I am convinced of that. That is why I have also asked the Committee on Employment to give advice on the labour market of the future. That's not one-two-three taken care of. I would also like to express that expectation here in your Chamber. For that, we really need to get back to the drawing board. We are also in a situation where there are also major issues in implementation. Again, they are not solved one-two-three. Yesterday, VVD, CDA and D66 asked a number of specific questions about the starting point of the work regulation committee, and several members asked for the follow-up of that opinion. Once again, this opinion will be presented in January, on 23 January. This is an excellent starting point for having an open discussion with your Chamber, but also with the social partners and, above all, with society as a whole, about the future of the labour market. A conversation in which all solutions will have to be discussed seriously. In addition, we cannot afford taboos. That is why I look forward to the solutions proposed by your Chamber. For example, Mr Van Weyenberg spoke about the single contract, Mrs Palland asked for equal protection for all workers, and Mrs Tielen asked for proposals on transition compensation and dismissal. Those are indeed issues which will come back in such an opinion and which, once again, we should be able to discuss without taboos when we look at the labour market of the future. This also applies to the last point that Mr Bruins made in his Action Plan to develop lifelong craftsmanship. This is extremely important in this rapidly changing labour market where competences are rapidly ageing and people will have to continue training their whole lives in order to be able to work in the labour market. With the Labour Market Act in balance, we are already taking steps to narrow the gap between flex and fixed, but there are now also issues specific tozzp's who demand our attention. The number ofzzp'ers has grown considerably over the past decades. This is good for our economy and our competitiveness, but I also note three problems. Firstly, the working poor group at the bottom of the labour market. It grows and often involveszzp'ers and people working part-time. A second problem is that there is unfair competition: competition between employees and self-employed workers in the workplace, but also, for example, between the self-employed who are insured and the self-employed who do not. I have given the example of a cameraman who has expensive disability insurance of €400 per month, so he simply has too high a rate and is competing away by cameramen who do not have that insurance. There is also competition between SMEs who want to employ employees and SMEs who are much cheaper out because they work with the self-employed. A painter's company appealed to me: "I have five employees and I compete with five painters who work as a team as a zzp'er. I have to pay pension contributions and social security contributions and I'm out of competition." These are subjects that we are currently just encountering in this labour market. A third problem is that there is unnecessary uncertainty among clients who want to hire a self-employed person who are afraid of cold water on the client's side because they now experience labour law as very complex and simply do not know where they stand. Those are problems that require a solution and preferably today. That's why we're not standing still. There is now a proposal from the Cabinet to provide more protection at the bottom with that minimum rate and, at the top, to give more freedom and responsibility to entrepreneurs with a self-employed declaration. For the large group in between we develop a web module as a tool for clients to determine which job can be done as a self-employed person and which cannot. That is what we are doing in order to do justice to the problems I have just outlined, but also to do justice to the diversity in thezzp landscape. I have often said that thezzp'er does not exist, but that there are a lot of different types ofzzp'ers. We have worked hard on these proposals recently. We discussed them with stakeholders, a number of times with the field and through several progress letters. Last Friday I informed the Chamber with the fourth progress letter about the steps taken. It is now open for consultation on the Internet. I'd like to discuss the bill with your Chamber in the first half of 2020. Only with such an approach, which does justice to the great diversity ofzzp'ers, can we continue to maintain false self-employment, without again causing unnecessary unrest on the client side. That is, of course, the legacy of the DBA Act that we have been dragging along. That is also why I do not feel in favour of postponing legislation. This will inevitably also lead to a postponement of the possibility of maintaining. Here's what I'm gonna do. I hear two kinds of calls in society and also in your Chamber. The first is quite translated "just go maintain" and the second is "leave real entrepreneurs alone." I understand and endorse both calls, partly. At the same time, this illustrates the diversity ofzzp'ers and the complexity of the problems. Protecting allzzp'ers more makes for less freedom for otherzzp'ers, but the considerable amount of working poor among thezzp'ers shows that action is needed and required. That is why I think it is so important to consult the legislative proposal widely, to collect all social views, including those ofzzp'ers, and to consider alternatives in order to improve the proposal. If good proposals emerge in the internet consultation, I am very willing to consider them seriously. That is why I am looking at the reaction of yesterday's employers' and employees' organisations with some surprise. I do not think that there is any misunderstanding about this, but I am disappointed that they are only finding each other in what they do not want. The criticism does not focus on the main lines, but on the specific impact of a completely new law. I read that this obviously leads to the conclusion that the legislative proposal should not be tabled at all, and I find that too easy, especially given the problems we see and are widely recognised. That's what I want to say today. I am the first to recognise that the bill makes choices that not everyone will be happy with and I understand that everyone represents their own interest, but that does not get us there. That's a missed opportunity. I say this in response to the questions put by Mr Smeulders and Mr Van Kent. I see in society that the status quo is not sustainable. And we all know that there arezzp'ers working daily for those who haven't been settled. That's what your Chamber often asks me about. Thesezzp'ers deserve less than the social minimum and they are not protected. I find that unacceptable. Therefore, doing nothing is not an option. I naturally take part in the involvement of the social partners in the further design and improvement of my policy, as well as the other 800 responses I have received in the meantime. I like to see that this subject is alive and well, so we have already received 800 responses. However, I am still curious about the solution of employers and employees. That's what I want to say. Unfortunately, I have not yet been able to find such a common solution. I therefore call on employers and employees in this place to come forward with a proposal. I call on them not to say what they do not want, but what they do want.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u4	Did you finish this piece?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u5	Yes. I have a few specific questions to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u6	Mr Gijs van Dijk will then be given the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u7	The Labour Foundation is actually cutting the bill that is now before us, but I agree with the Minister: doing nothing is not an option. Because the group of self-employed people grows and grows, and a large part of them live below the minimum. Part of it doesn't either, but part of it does. So we have to do something. We have previously had an ideological debate on this during a general discussion. This showed that the differences between the opposition and the cabinet are still quite large. I also said yesterday to the coalition parties: if there is room for, for example, that opt-out, if there is room for the minimum rate, then perhaps we can do business.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u8	That's what I heard. Let me say two things. In the response of the Foundation of Labour it is not about ideological differences, but it is about implementation questions, it is about technology and it is about administrative burdens. I think that is right; let me have said that. At the same time, I do not see any line between trade unions and employers. I do not see in which parts they would like and which parts they do not. We have had an extensive discussion on these two elements. That's what's gonna happen with the bill. And I explained that this €16 of the minimum rate originates in European legal sustainability. I have always said that it is not necessarily a question of height, but it is a question of laying down a base of a rate, a soil which is also sustainable and which cannot be challenged by the European Court of Justice, which would mean that we would once again be empty-handed. That's one. The second point concerns the opt-out and the self-employed declaration. That is, of course, also an agreement in the coalition agreement. I have as a minister to abide by the coalition agreement. I'm doing it nicely. But I also said: if there are any good ideas, I'm going to take a serious look at them. I would like to make the following point. The zzp population is very diverse, so there are indeed different types of problems. Some problems, for example, focus more on the bottom. These include protection, disability insurance and minimum rates. Other problems focus on the other group. This involves more security for the client and more freedom to undertake. I believe that this balance, which is also included in the coalition agreement, and also in my legislative proposal, should be maintained. Otherwise you don't do justice to that complex reality that there are so many different types ofzzp'ers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u9	I'll see a middle ground, too. Indeed, for the real entrepreneurs, we want space and freedom. But we don't want them to be completely let go. I think that is the ideological point. And if we can talk about that, we might be able to work on better legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u10	You know me; I am always willing to talk to you, even at night and at night, about pensions, about... This sounds pretty shady getting married when I say it like that. But that's completely out of the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u11	Yes. Tell me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u12	So I am very willing to start the discussion on this. At the same time, in addition to the legislative proposal now before us, other steps have, of course, been taken. For example, the disability insurance for zzp'ers. In addition, the question is how exactly this will be worked out. Will it be a separate insurance only forzzp'ers? Or is it going to be part of a scheme for all workers, as Mrs Palland said yesterday? That discussion is also open and on the streets. If we can stay in conversation with those elements, I think we can come a long way. But I'm an optimist and I'm always looking for solutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u13	Yesterday, something very special happened: we received a letter from the employers and the employees together, with a whole list of criticisms of the government's plans. It is a good thing that the Minister is now addressing this issue. I think it's a little easy to say that it's mainly technique they don't agree with. I think it's very fundamental. Both employers and employees indicate that they do not like the plans of the cabinet at all. Does the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u14	I don't entirely agree with you. I'm gonna explain why. That is exactly my criticism of that piece. Employers and employees together say what they don't want. My point is that I cannot make it any clearer because I did not mention that the employers have reservations about the administrative burden and the minimum rate, and that the trade unions, I know that, because they have expressed their reservations about the self-employed declaration. Of course, that's a bit of a pity about that reaction. Because it's easy to shoot away something you don't want and it's easy to find each other there, but then I would expect the polder to come up with an alternative that they do want. I'll wait for that; I'm a patient man. I do not think Mr Smeulders' analysis is entirely correct. I believe that there are differences in content between trade unions and employers. That's all on my part; I can't prove that. But I've had two years of experience with these kinds of conversations, so I can estimate how the parties react.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u15	Of course there are huge differences, but it is really not that they only find each other in technology. They just have really fundamental criticisms. If you make a law on which both thezzp organisations and the employers and the employees have such fundamental criticisms, then we can ask ourselves whether we are doing well. That is my second question to the Minister. Yesterday I called on him to stop doing what he is doing, to go back to the drawing board and to come up with a bill that does offer solutions. Mr President, I will conclude. What I'm a little afraid of is that we're gonna work out this bill for another year, then we're just gonna conclude that there's no majority in this Chamber and the First Chamber, and then nothing happened for a year. I think that's totally undesirable. Can the Minister indicate how he intends to deal with these critical noises in the coming months in such a way that there will be a proposal that can count on a majority?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u16	Four things. One: I agree with Mr Smeulders that we are not going to work out something that has no basis for support for a year. I agree with Mr Smeulders. The second point is: that is why I also offered it for internet consultation. That is why, in my letter last Friday together with the Secretary of State Snel, I announced a wide-ranging discussion, in particular on the web module and how the current laws and regulations are working out, precisely to hear from the field and the direct stakeholders how this works in practice. Thirdly, I am very interested in Mr Smeulder's proposals on this point. It's a little challenging, Mr. Chairman, but it's okay. I'm just getting started.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u17	Yeah, I see it. Mr Smeulders likes that very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u18	Because criticizing me is my fourth point, which is easy, but then I am curious about the alternative. If Mr Smeulders could also make a suggestion on how we are going to solve this, I am highly recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u19	I thought there were four points.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u20	The latter was the fourth point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u21	I'd love to. I fully agree with Mr Gijs van Dijk: increase the minimum rate and delete that opt-out. I think we can do business very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u22	Does it raise the minimum rate? Yesterday, the Labour Foundation expressed fundamental criticism on this very point. So Mr Smeulders contradicts himself. On the one hand, Mr Smeulders refers to the letter from the Foundation of Labour, which criticises the minimum rate and the complexity and administrative burden. For the record, I understand it and I'm not running away from it. On the other hand, Mr Smeulders says: do it. Then I do not understand Mr Smeulders' position anymore. It's so early in the debate, and then we've already had such a crazy one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u23	Yeah, how about that, Mr. Smeulders?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u24	I think the Minister's making it a bit of a caricature. If we are very honest: I use the criticism of the Labour Foundation to indicate that there is absolutely no support for the cabinet plans. A completely different question is what the use of GroenLinks is. If such a minimum rate is possible, I would like to believe the Minister if he says that it is possible, then we want a higher minimum rate and then we want to agree on it. If that is not possible, we would like to go with the cabinet and social partners to see how it can be done. But to put us away so easily... I don't think we're gonna get out of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u25	Mr Smeulders is quite right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u26	I still want to try another way. This minister has invented laws and regulations for self-employed people in this country. There is no one for that anymore: no employers' organisation, no workers' organisation and no majority in this Chamber either. Only Mr Van Weyenberg has heard me defend it, but nobody else is happy about it. This law is in the trash. Is the Minister prepared to withdraw this law so that no time is wasted and we can see together how a better law can be achieved? Mr Van Weyenberg also asked yesterday the question 'what do we want?' He asked the Labour Party, GroenLinks and the SP. We have raised a number of points, which are also raised by employers and employees, such as minimum rates and opt-out. I have the letter right here. That is about the €16 and that €75. Does the Minister recognize that his law is dead, that his law has ended up in the trash can? Is the Minister prepared to rescind his law? Is the Minister prepared to discuss with employers, employees and parties here a higher minimum rate and the deletion of the opt-out?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u27	I can't revoke a law that hasn't been filed. That's the first thing. The law has not been filed, it is open for consultation, precisely in order to pick up your input, Mr. Van Kent, and to be able to take part in the elaboration. That's point one. Point two. I know your point of view. We have had a wide-ranging debate on this. In the letter from the Labour Foundation, to which you refer, there is criticism of that minimum rate. Not so much at the rate itself as trade unions, but employers not, I think, but at the complexity, the administrative burden and implementation. One wonders whether it is workable and feasible. That's what it says, Mr. Van Kent. I read the letter correctly yesterday. In yesterday's press release of the FNV, I was able to read that too. Mr Van Kent says that the problem is solved if we raise the minimum rate, but I do not think that is entirely in line with the letter from the Labour Foundation. But let's not argue about that. We still have plenty of time to discuss with each other the exact design and the implementation if I'm actually going to submit a law. I haven't done that yet. I opened him up for consultation. Then we can have that debate. I have just said to Mr Gijs van Dijk, who asked a question on exactly the same point, that I do have a balance which is also contained in the coalition agreement. I am bound to carry out the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u28	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u29	Mrs Palland had a number of questions about thezzp, in particular about compulsory disability insurance. I have therefore asked the social partners to draw up a proposal for such a statutory insurance obligation against incapacity for work. Last week or two weeks ago there was a meeting with the social partners, but also with thezzp clubs. Your Chamber has asked a number of times to include a broad representation of thezzp clubs. That's what happened. They are expected to deliver their opinion before 1 February. I promised the Chamber that I would do the same with regard to the pension agreement, and also with regard to Mr Smeulders, that I would come forward with a cabinet proposal on this matter before the summer. Then let's make sure that not all internet consultations get through. It's a good thing you did that. I have indeed seen a lot of questions about this on Twitter. I'm aware of that. We've been asking around. This has made it clear that this is a technical problem which has sometimes delayed the receipt of confirmation e-mails. The messages with "the response to your consultation is inside" have been delayed, but as far as we can check, all reactions have been confirmed and also visible on the website. I think that's the website Government.nl. So no reactions have been lost, but we are watching this, because we have received some of these signals over the past week. Mr Van Kent pointed out to me that the CNV would pass on the opt-out tozzp-schemes. I appreciate the willingness of the CNV and other stakeholders to think with it. That's why we're doing the consultation. The effects of the opt-out have my attention. We are engaged in a comprehensive study of the labour market effects of the proposed measure. That is what I promised at the VAO on 4 September last. The results of the survey on labour market effects are taken into account simultaneously with the submission of the legislative proposal, so that we have the facts on the table. Moreover, I think that the CVN's calculations are somewhat partial. So there is no focus on the expenditure side. For example, benefits are not included. The estimation of the group that is expected to make use of this, I find something on the high side. That is based on assumptions that can be contested. But let's not do those calculations here. We are simply taking this into account in the drafting of the legislation. Mrs Palland had a question aboutzzp'ers who want to grow into an SME. These obstacles have our attention. As you know, the cabinet of entrepreneurs has a heartfelt heart. We think it is important that the entrepreneurial environment is positive and that there is also a climate in which companies can grow and develop their full potential. There is a comment to be made. Research carried out by SEO in 2017 has shown that only 3% ofzzp'ers want to grow to a company with staff. 97% don't want that. That's mainly about preferences. The ibozzp of a number of years ago shows that self-employed people often have no ambition to become self-employed with staff. In addition, external barriers can play a role, e.g. the risks and costs associated with employership. This is, of course, a broader debate, which we have also had in the Chamber more often. It's about pay-as-you-go in case of illness and that kind of risk. The willingness, or willingness in good Dutch, is not very great, but in order to avoid that promising companies are smothered in the bud and to reduce the threshold for hiring staff, we have, of course, taken a number of steps, including in the Labour Market Act in balance. Think of the relaxation of the right of dismissal. Think of the compensation scheme for small employers for the transition fee, even at company termination. Think of the lower WW premium for people on permanent contracts. And not least, think about the package of pay-as-you-go payments in case of illness with the SME absence care insurance. These are all measures that should reduce the risks for employers to take on people. These issues, of course, also come back to the debate following the report of the Borstlap Committee, the Regulatory Committee, which will be presented on 23 January. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to a few other questions about the labour market. Mr Van Kent proposed a standard to limit the flexibility of a company to 10%. To be honest, I don't think that's a good idea. The need for a flexible shell may vary from company to sector. Not every company has the same uncertainties and the same peaks in its operations. Think of the classic example of a beach tent, but there are also other examples. A generic standard is therefore not going to help and does not do justice to the diversity of the landscape. It's a fair price. It's about how you make sure people have security. In my view, therefore, we are quickly in agreement on the objectives, but a generic standard does not seem to me to be a sensible measure. Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Gijs van Dijk have expressed their concerns about the terms of competition. In many employment contracts, about 20%, a competitive clause is agreed between the employee and the employer. The employer may have a legitimate interest in this, for example in protecting business secrets and combating unfair competition. Mr Wörsdörfer rightly said this yesterday in an interruption. However, a competitive clause restricts the employee's ability to find a new job after the contract has expired or to start as a self-employed person in the same sector. It is therefore important that there is a balance in the interests of employer and employee and that the competitive clause is not used and used too lightly. In a temporary contract, since 2015, a competitive clause can only be included if the employer motivates that he has significant business interests that make such a clause possible. Before the summer of 2020 you will receive the review of the Work and Security Act, of which this is part. The evaluation shall consider the development of the measure that, in principle, it is no longer allowed to include a competitive clause in a temporary contract. It will then be possible to assess the need for further action in the case of fixed-term and indefinite contracts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u30	Such a competitive clause is something that, as an independent entrepreneur, is not affected, but quite aside. We are looking at the evaluation of the Work and Security Act, but the point made by Mr Gijs van Dijk and myself is somewhat broader. We're just worried. I am all speaking to young people who have a temporary first contract and who simply do something that I want to see with the best of the world, because of a very special production process or so, when that argument is used. And then you're gonna have to answer to the judge that this isn't the case, because the burden of proof is reversed. I understand that the Minister is going to study it, but I would like to confirm that while maintaining those situations in which it is simply necessary, I agree with Mr Wörsdörfer. As far as I am concerned, there is simply a proliferation, so I would like to try a little more urgency.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u31	Um... Yes. I think that Mr Gijs van Dijk also has a question on this point. Isn't it? I can take that in one go.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u32	That's just as practical.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u33	I am still thinking about Mr Van Weyenberg's words, so I have a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u34	The Minister has read exactly what is also in the written answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u35	Yes...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u36	That's kind of the feeling that you have to go left after the third tree and then straight ahead for a long time. And then you're somewhere in the woods and you're lost. "Then we'll see if further action is needed."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u37	The Prime Minister will say: you are on to me!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u38	Exactly. I would like to hear from the Minister: "I recognise the problem, but I have not yet invented the solution and we are going to evaluate it. I would like to examine this further and share it with the Chamber before the summer." That is an answer which, I think, will give us a lot more satisfaction and gives us less of a sense of forest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u39	I'm gonna try to take away the forest feeling. In the light of the comments made by Mr Wörsdörfer, which I believe are justified, I would like to say that I am aware that your Chamber is keeping up with the commitments that I wish to examine whether more conditions can be imposed on the use of the terms of competition. Is that a nice translation of this search?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u40	Yeah? Then Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u41	I remain curious whether the Minister recognizes and recognizes this in the second term, because then I will at least come back to the fact that there are excesses and excesses. In spite of the objectives, this is still separate from what policy conclusion and what concrete proposal the Minister attaches to it. Too often it is used for the things for which it is not intended. For example, in a tight labour market there are obstacles for workers to go elsewhere because they cannot work within 30 kilometres of their home, where they have their home and where their partner may work. That really has nothing to do with business-confidential information anymore, but that's just tackling the freedom of workers. If the Minister also says that this is a problem, I think that this interplay between Mr Van Dijk and me is a lot better than the first answer that I sum up as 'yes'.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u42	Let me put it this way: I have seen a few examples of which I do indeed wonder what the importance of the competitive clause is. Sure. 20% of the contracts are intuitively high for me. Having said that, I do think that Mr Wörsdörfer is right, and that is why he is standing in front of the interrupting microphone, which may have good reasons, for example because it concerns intellectual property, network, contacts or sales. So we need to do that carefully. Against this background, I would like to commit that research to Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Van Weyenberg, and then Mr Wörsdörfer will add a piece to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u43	Okay, I don't have to do anything anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u44	It's just been suggested that there's been wild growth. The first question before you start research is how big the problem really is. Where do we see problems? LISS panel has examined it and says that 3.4% of the people who are dealing with a competitive clause see a barrier in it. So the question is: how big is this problem? I am asking this because there are, of course, entrepreneurs who need to be protected; the minister was ahead of me, otherwise I would have had to repeat it, but I still do. Let's not lose sight of that, please. How big is the problem? Isn't this about shooting a cannon on a mosquito?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u45	I honestly don't know the latter. The first question is right: how big is the problem? It's also part of an investigation like this that you need to map. I have received signals from a number of labour law lawyers that this occurs in situations. Mr Wörsdörfer makes a gesture of balance, and I very much agree with that. I am extending the commitment a little bit, not only to examine whether more conditions can be attached, but also to the extent of the problem. I'll add that. There's nodding, so that's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u46	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u47	Let me ask you a few questions about minimum wage. Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mrs Van Brenk have proposed raising the minimum wage. My answer will not surprise you: the cabinet is not in favour of it. Thank you to Mr Jasper van Dijk for the report by SEOR, by the way former colleagues of mine, for I once started at the Netherlands Economic Institute, which later partly switched to SEOR, but this aside. In that I really read something different from what he said yesterday in the first term, and that scares Mr Van Kent. SEOR does not say that there is no effect on employment, but that the effect is not unambiguous. I recognize that from the debate that is also taking place internationally on raising the minimum wage. Yesterday Mr Jasper van Dijk had a list of countries where it was greatly increased. I would add that the Netherlands has a relatively high minimum wage, even if you compare it internationally. It is incomparable to the level in Poland or Romania. These studies show both negative and positive effects, as I can see. I therefore conclude that the literature is diffuse. I said six months ago in a general discussion that one of my finest economic books is from Card and Krueger on The Effect of the Minimum Wage. A few experiments have been carried out in the United States, for example in New York and New Jersey, on raising the minimum wage. There is no clear picture based on research, such as the Nibud, that households lack structural money to meet their basic needs. These are investigations which Mr Jasper van Dijk knows. But I'm gonna take care of him a little bit. I think it is important for this issue to be examined further, because the discussion will come back every time, including in your Chamber, precisely because there are different international signals. The Centraal Planbureau is in the process of mapping the insights, in the context of the update of Kansrijk Labour Market Policy, to re-assess the employment effects for the Dutch situation. That is what they are doing now, and that update is expected in spring 2020, so it is available fairly quickly, for your election programmes, but also for the debate in the Chamber. In addition, we should not forget, and this was also mentioned yesterday, that an increase in the minimum wage also affects social security benefits, and that must be covered. Mr Gijs van Dijk has tabled an own-initiative proposal. If the proposal is made, the cabinet will come up with a comprehensive substantive response. It's in the Council of State right now. I very much look forward to the treatment of that. Mrs Van Brenk specifically asked about the link between the minimum wage and the supplement and income schemes. She mentioned yesterday as an example Wil, Ruud and Albert. We have answered them in the written set, because it is often about the technique of the arrangements. I know they're all watching today. That is why I would like to do justice to your contribution yesterday. They were answered extensively in the written set that was sent to your room last night. As you know, Menno Snel, the Secretary of State for Finance, sent part of the ibo supplements to your room two weeks ago. These are the changes within the system, I shall say. Part two of that interdepartmental policy research surcharges will come in early 2020. This concerns the more fundamental questions about the future of the supplement scheme. In it we will also respond to the variants that are included in the ibo. It is quite possible that there is a variation in this with an increase in the minimum wage. In the cabinet response towards your Chamber on the total ibo surcharges we take that reaction with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u48	The Minister is now talking about research into the future of the allowances. I have asked Mr Smeulders to do so, or to include far-reaching child care variants which may be financed in a way other than a supplement. Is that already in that ibo and is that reflected in the response to the Kansrijk Labour Market policy? Can the Minister say anything about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u49	From my point of view, I say yes, but I'm gonna check it out just in case. It'll be sent to me in a minute. If you wait a moment, I will answer Mrs Van Brenk first and then I will come back to Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u50	You have the floor of the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u51	Yeah, he's already bought time for an answer. Obviously.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u52	Mr Van Weyenberg always asks difficult questions for which I need time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u53	Then I ask a simple question; that saves me. The Minister has indeed given a written reply to the case that has been worked out. He was about Wil, who had a small pension of €400, while his neighbor gets €400 in surcharges. The minister says: yes, but Wil has more purchasing power. It is indeed well calculated, but with that it is clear that Wil of the pension of €5,000 will ultimately only have about €100 per month. With this I want to show that these supplements are beautiful, but that someone with a small pension is incredibly intuitive. My question was: does the Minister think that is fair and fair? And that question just hasn't been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u54	I understand Mrs Van Brenn's question, including the question of whether it is fair. Of course, it is very unfair if you have a small supplementary pension, but because of net payments you have hardly any more. This is, for example, one of the reasons why the government in the Tax Plan is slowing down the reduction of the rent allowance. For we see that, under the current rent payment schemes, this year, there is a harder income limit. If you have more than €22,000 in gross income, you are not entitled to rent allowance at once. That saves about €150 per month. That is exactly an example of which Mrs Van Brenn says: that is unjust. We've already taken care of that. So we've already let it go more slowly, so that the big shocks are really getting less big. At the same time, of course, there is always the exchange of income-dependent schemes. Those arrangements are intended to support people. They have a disadvantage, namely that the phasing-out has a greater marginal pressure effect on people's income. It continues to seek a balance in the dilemma of income protection and, I shall say, participation effects. I have been sent an answer to Mr Van Weyenberg's question. Formally, the Secretary of State deals with the child care allowance. That's right. But in the ibo surcharges it is of course about all fees. Just phase two of the interdepartmental policy research surcharges is also about options that are outside the regular adjustments. You've had phase one. This concerns advance payments, other income limits or the example of Mrs Van Brenk on the rent payment. Part two is more fundamental. It's an official investigation that I don't have any involvement in, but I could just imagine that it's also about off-the-box solutions and that you're giving this a completely different form. In fact, the previous cabinet has, of course, also developed a variant of direct funding for childcare payments, for example. That too was very complicated in practice, but we must have that kind of variation on the table, in order to think about the future of the surcharge system. This is because there are many problems, as we can read almost daily in the newspaper. Meanwhile, I'm getting a message about this point. I'm gonna go see if I said anything stupid.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u55	It was an app from Mr. De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u56	I didn't say anything stupid. In fact, Mr. Van Weyenberg, it's in there. Thanks to the support!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u57	So it was an app from Mr Van Weyenberg?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u58	Yes. Then I have the manifesto I received yesterday from Mr Jasper van Dijk. Or was it Bart van Kent's? I am referring to the manifesto of the SP, the Labour Party, GroenLinks and 50PLUS about lowering the youth wage age to 18 years. I would like to thank the authors very much for that. I welcome Mr Van Kent's reduction in the age limit to 21 years. Of course, it happened in two steps, also by my predecessor in the previous cabinet. That was after the Young & United action of the FNV. As far as I am concerned, 21 years is also a logical limit, because it also corresponds to the maintenance obligation of parents for their child. That was, of course, also the reasoning at the time to limit it to 21 years. As far as I am concerned, this has struck a good balance between the reduction in age and its negative effects, but I would of course like to talk to you about it, also because those variants of the CPB's promising labour market policy will be available in the spring of 2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u59	I read about this maintenance obligation, but unfortunately there are, of course, a lot of young people who do not. For example, we looked at the support in the study costs. In half of the cases, parents actually contribute. And as a result of cabinet policy, for example, young people build up a lot of debt when they study. This also contributes to making more money, especially since the accounts for an 18-year-old are the same as for a 21-year-old. In any case, I would ask the Minister not to hold on to the obligation to provide care for parents, because I do not think that is a good thing in a lot of cases. I would ask the Minister to think along with the broad support that is in favour of taking that step to 18 years. See, for example, with the ESC how this could be a first step.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u60	I have two reactions to that. Look, the social loan system, of course, is really a different discussion from this discussion. In fact, with the introduction of the social loan system, the repayment period has been extended to 40 years, with which, on balance, the monthly costs have been substantially reduced. But that is another discussion, which should also be held with another colleague. A few years ago, of course, we consciously took that step from 23 years to 21 years. That was done in two steps. We also monitored it. The effects don't seem to be too bad. I've also recently sent the evaluation to your room. The broader discussion on the level of the WMM is taken into account in the Centraal Planbureau's investigation into promising labour market policies. We also see mixed signals internationally, including in the investigations that are taking place internationally. I would like to refer to that. It is true that increasing it will have an impact on the labour market position and employment at the bottom, at least according to the current CPB models. But an update is now taking place. They're updating it now. It will come in the spring of 2020, and I would like to resume the discussion with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u61	I can see your doubts as to whether you would like to ask another question, Mr. Van Kent, because of the number of interruptions we've agreed on. You may, of course, ask another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u62	Then it must be a very good question, because now he's taking one from Jasper van Dijk!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u63	No, no. I'm gonna talk about the number of questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u64	Sorry! I didn't mean to argue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u65	We have indeed agreed on seven questions, but if the questions are not answered properly or half-answered, they do not count.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u66	Mr President, I have reserved for you all evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u67	Okay, good. Mr Van Kent then.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u68	Thank you very much, Mr President. We are not suggesting that tomorrow's minimum wage... That is not the content of the manifesto either. That would be very nice, but we're not suggesting that. What we're proposing is, go see what's possible in there. We're not gonna do that at once. The last time, it was chosen to take it step by step, to evaluate it carefully and to monitor its consequences. That's how I see it. It is not the case that we are putting a proposal on the table with a number of parties in terms of: we are going to organise it in this way tomorrow. I would expect the Minister to give some consideration and some appreciation for the social movement there is. Does he see it? Does he want to see what is possible to prepare that step, so that in future it may become a reality that for people from 18 years of age, not only the bills, but also the wages are complete?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u69	I have tried to do so by involving it in the update of the CPB's Probable Labour Market Policy. This concerns the wider debate on the level of the minimum wage and its impact on employment. I think that's the most important question that keeps coming back to this discussion. Under the Labour Market Act in balance, I held a debate with your Chamber on what it means for the seasonal sectors, in which many students and students under 21 are also employed, for example in agriculture, horticulture and catering. Employers have also drawn attention to this. I understand that very well, because of course it has a significant cost-boosting effect. But I thought I made that move in my first answer. In the spring of 2020, we will be able to discuss this in the update of the Probable Labour Market Policy. That's what I meant, anyway. Maybe it's been a little too defensive, for which I apologize.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u70	I saw the minister put his folder away, and I have one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u71	I have a lot of questions to answer, you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u72	Can you see how many folders the minister has with him?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u73	No, but at least I saw him clean up a folder. But I think he's working very neatly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u74	I'm trying to work a little structured, Mrs. Van Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u75	That's very good. I would like to thank the Minister for his response to the debate on ageing; indeed, older people have opportunities. I also liked to see how many generational pacts there are already in the Netherlands and what opportunities there are. There's more to it than that. I have a question about that. Could there be more generational pacts by using the European Social Fund? Would that be an opportunity?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u76	I honestly don't know. My first impression would be... There has been a debate in Europe about the ESF and the European Globalisation Fund, the EGF, where there is additional scope for labour market transitions. Think about the energy transition and that sort of thing. A demographic transition could also be part of that. But I'm gonna check this out for you for the second term, because I don't have this ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u77	Okay, well, you'll get back to that. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u78	The second block: pensions. I'm gonna do that briefly, because...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u79	The Minister is now closing his block on the labour market, I understand. I didn't really have cubes yesterday, but I did have three themes, including dynamic labour market. I have asked a number of questions about part-time work. I can't hear the Minister say anything about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u80	I'll get to that in a minute, with work, care and leave.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u81	Unfortunately, that's what I was afraid of. It also disappoints me a little, because it calls part-time work in one breath again with childcare and working mothers who have to stay at home with their young family while working part-time, as I tried to put it yesterday, is precisely an element of our labour market that is perhaps comparable tozzp's, flexes and that sort of thing. I want to talk about this from the labour market perspective, so I hope the Minister will look at it that way too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u82	I think Mrs Tielen is right. At the same time, I try to work in an orderly and structured way. Mrs Tielen is right, because if you look at the untapped labour potential in the Netherlands, it is, unfortunately, still mainly women who work part-time, you can see that there is still a world to be won. I have included the subject in the broader block of work, leave and care, because in practice we see that many cultural and institutional factors also affect part-time culture. Mr Bruins rightly said yesterday that, of course, it remains an individual choice. I think Mr Van Weyenberg said the same thing. As a liberal, so do you and I. At the same time, however, we must avoid obstacles that make this choice so compelling that people choose a part-time factor. Mrs Tielen said yesterday that we see in the Netherlands that a lot of women already decide to work part-time before children are born. These are not institutional differences, but rather cultural elements. Against this background, as a cabinet, we have also asked for fundamental research to be carried out. So that comes in the ibo part-time. You actually have two elements. You have the institutions and the arrangements, where it is often about work and care, childcare and the school hours that parents are dealing with. Mrs Tielen rightly pointed that out yesterday. I'm dealing with those school hours, too. On the other hand, we have a kind of cultural standard in the Netherlands in this area. The ageing population is now on the horizon. There are a lot of people who will retire in the coming years. The replacement question is very big. Against the backdrop of this ageing labour market, one of the solutions is indeed more hours of work. And then you always have to be careful not to impose that, because it remains a free choice. Mr Klaver always says that we should not radiate that the only thing we find of value is paid work. That's all true. But compared to other countries, the difference in the Netherlands is huge.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u83	I suggest you keep going, because the Secretary of State still has to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u84	I apologize for falling back into that combination after all. I will be very brief about pensions. We also discussed it yesterday morning before this budget debate. Last week we had a wide-ranging debate on discounts. As you know, we are now working very hard on the elaboration. I call the AOW age, sustainable employability, the attack plan white spots, the survivor's pension, the new pension contract. That's a very big job with ambitious planning. Mr Van Weyenberg rightly said yesterday that there must be haste, also in the context of the pension reduction, which we have now postponed for a year. I very much agree with Mr Van Weyenberg. What I find very positive is that last week all the trade unions and employers, in their press releases following the decision to postpone the discounts for a year, responded in the same way. In that they say that the most important thing now is that the pension agreement be worked out quickly. Three specific questions have been asked. Mr Kuzu is not here right now. I understand that the DENK Group cannot be present at all the debates, so I will give you an answer. Mr Kuzu asked why it took so long. It is a complex interplay of pension funds, the Pension Federation, the social partners, supervisors, AFM and DNB and politics. I have had to have a number of discussions with a view to achieving a balanced package. The first appeal from your Chamber to work on this was from Mr Gijs van Dijk at the beginning of September. Indeed, it took me six weeks to make a package out of it. That is why it has taken some time. But I thought that was wise, also because of the balance between generations and the limitation in time. So that's why. Mr Kuzu's second question was about the state of the pension administration following a broadcast of Nieuwsuur last week. I also discussed this point in general consultation last week. I try to send a letter to your Chamber before the end of the year, in consultation with De Nederlandsche Bank. In that I will indicate what we can do about it to improve it. So that's coming towards your room. The third point raised by Mr Kuzu in the context of pensions concerns people with incomplete AOW. Moreover, the General Court has recently called for attention to be paid to this. These are people with an incomplete AOW, and specifically the situation of Surinamese and Antillean Dutch. I am going to give a more detailed answer, because I think it is important for the sake of completeness. For the years that people have lived in Suriname, the Dutch government is not responsible for the old-age provision, because the political relationship between Suriname and the Netherlands was regulated at the time in the Statute of the Kingdom of the Netherlands. When the Statute was drawn up, both the Netherlands and Suriname agreed not to consider social security as a kingdom issue. That is why the people who lived in Suriname at the time were not insured for the Dutch AOW. This discussion has been held several times in the Chamber. In 2007, the Commission considered equal treatment that no prohibited distinction was made by shortening the AOW appeal for the years that former nationals, including Surinamese, did not live in the Netherlands. During the years 2008 and 2009, Parliament discussed in detail whether there should be a special arrangement. This was not decided at the time, because the weather would lead to unequal treatment against Dutch people of non-Dutch origin. Think of Turkish and Moroccan Dutch, who also came to the Netherlands in the 1960s and 1970s and also had to do with an incomplete AOW. At the same time, I do see an inconvenience and a difficult point here. That's what I taste in your room. I recently had discussions on this issue with the alderman of Amsterdam, Mr Groot Wassink, as representative of the G4, the four major municipalities in the Netherlands. We have agreed together that we will look again at the under-utilisation of the assistance scheme, the AIO scheme. Last week, the General Court presented a report on the underutilisation of the scheme, which was also the subject of questions from the CDA and 50PLUS. Yesterday I was thrown in the face of the fact that I would consider privacy more important than combating non-use. I want to get rid of that right here. I really want us to find a solution to this problem. 50% non-use is really high. But it has to be neat.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u85	You said that pensions were discussed extensively in a general discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u86	Yeah, I'm done with the pensions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u87	Yes, but it is quite a long time for a subject that has been discussed extensively in an AO, an VAO and so on. So I'd say...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u88	Block 3, chairman: labour and care. I think I'm very short and concise, but okay. Work, care and leave. It is a continuous challenge, also for myself and for many Dutch people, such as for parents with children, who have to puzzle every week how they come from home to shelter to work and back again. That's just a whole puzzle, isn't it? Mr Smeulders and Mr Stoffer drew attention to mourning leave in this block yesterday. I'd like to start with that right away. I think it's a nice manifesto of both gentlemen. All the appreciation for the initiative, because the death of a loved one is a hugely profound event. It takes time and space. I had a debate earlier with Mr Stoffer on this point, last year in the budget, I think. Research shows that it really depends very much on the individual situation. What I found positive in the hand-out is that a number of suggestions are made to make this more discussable and to better regulate it. The expertise of company doctors on this theme was also in yesterday's manifesto. I think that's a good suggestion. I would like to work on this and we will consult with the occupational group of occupational doctors to see how they can contribute to the support of the workers concerned. The involvement of corporate social workers can also play a role in this. The role of the SVB is also mentioned in the manifesto, which could make survivors more active in pointing out support. I think that too is a good idea. We have also paid attention to dealing with grief among employers, with the social partners. I also find that an interesting idea to include in my conversation with social partners. I find it an interesting manifesto with interesting suggestions, which I would like to take with me. I would like to inform you later on how we can shape this concretely. I have just discussed part of the subject part-time with Mrs Tielen in another block. I said that ibo part-time work will soon be coming to your Chamber with the cabinet response. Both elements, the untapped labour potential and economic independence, Mr Van Weyenberg underlined that yesterday too, and the institutional debate are coming together. We're going to look at this subject with open eyes and no taboos. Mrs Tielen also referred to McKinsey's report on labour shortages. They would disappear like snow before the sun if people worked more hours. That's just right. If more part-time workers start working more hours, this helps to reduce deficits. Also following the Van Weyenberg/Tielen motion submitted to the VAO labour market policy, there are discussions with social partners to identify how part-time workers can work more hours. We also take into account the idea that Mrs Tielen suggested about a temporary increase. We must also be realistic, because more hours of work is not a complete solution to the problem. Like a school for one of the classes, then... Then it won't work, but everyone understands that. But those conversations are going on. I find the suggestion interesting and I also take it into account in my discussions with the social partners on this point. Mr Smeulders and Mr Van Weyenberg have asked a somewhat critical question in my direction about a motion which I would not have carried out properly. I'm very sorry about that anyway. I noticed some irritation. I think there's been a misunderstanding and the motion has been misunderstood by me. I hope I can make that right. Like Mr Smeulders, I think it is very important that working carers receive good support in combining tasks. I am looking at care leave, as Mr Smeulders and Mr Van Weyenberg have requested in their motion, but more is needed. Research carried out by the SCP shows, for example, that carers often also need other forms of support, understanding in the workplace, 35%, and flexible working hours, 23%. For this reason, I am working with the social partners, TNO and interest groups to prepare a hand delivery for dealing with workers with severe personal circumstances, such as intensive care. I also had a conversation recently, six months ago or three months ago, with parents whose children have cancer. These are intense conversations, where a generic solution is not just available. There will also have to be tailor-made. We will have to think about how to ensure that employers give room to parents when they are in such a situation. In addition, in the ibo part-time the forms of leave and the forms of combination also come back. Then I would like to speak to your Chamber on this point. It's wider than just care leave.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u89	Let me look at the Minister's answer to all the questions relating to work and care.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u90	Yes. That was my second last block.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u91	Then Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u92	Mr President, thank you for that. I do not think our motion was the best formulated either, I say to myself. So I'm glad we got that out of the world. I have a very specific question, which is indeed about examples, namely the broadcast, in which Mr van Dijk was also closely involved, about parents whose children are very seriously ill. Employers generally want to handle this very neatly. But there are also assholes, Chairman! I really can't use another word for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u93	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u94	Those are the employers who don't. I see Hans de Boer on television all the time over the last few weeks and he knows exactly who has to do what. I have a request for the Minister. Would he not want to discuss with Hans de Boer of VNO-NCW that he should also speak big words about the stories of parents about employers who are really completely misbehaving in a way that I can only call inhumane? In fact, let him call these companies and say, "Come on, man, don't do this, just help those parents." Again, most employers are very neat to their staff, but of those examples, you are in the eye. I believe that there is a clean task for VNO.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u95	That's what I'm gonna do, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u96	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u97	Including the remark that most employers really pay a lot of attention to the position in which employees are in. That must always be said. Last block, Chairman, integration. I have a slightly longer text at the beginning. Sorry about that, Madam President. However, I would like to comment on yesterday's debate between Mr De Jong and Mr Kuzu. The President of the Chamber, as well as Mr Van Weyenberg, have already said something about this. I agree with that. I would like to emphasise here that I am a minister of all the Dutch and for all the Dutch, just as this parliament is the parliament of all the Dutch and for all the Dutch. That is also the starting point of all the policy pursued by this cabinet, and that should also be the starting point for the discussion we are having here. Unfortunately, I did not see that in the contributions to the debate yesterday. The fact that immigrants would come here to collect free money, that migrant workers would come here because it is ludicrous and that the Islam of the Netherlands would have made a state in decline is not my world either. That is also what I want to say in the introduction to this block. Nor is it the first time we have heard such statements from the PVV. Mr De Graaf said this in the WHO Integration two weeks ago, and I did not go into some of the theories at that time. I deliberately did not, because I also get the feeling that we are in some kind of repetition of moves. What I do agree with Mr De Graaf is that we really need to address examples of problems that we need to address. I also have a few concrete examples in response to his questions yesterday. But I also have to say: it never gets used to people being shaved along the same lines, that there are harsh, bold statements that put away large groups in the Netherlands. And then it's not about individual behaviors, it's about being part of a group, which is why you're being thrown away. That must always be contradicted, I think, and that is why I do so again when I introduced this point. Then there are a few concrete proposals from Mr De Jong and Mr De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u98	I hear the Minister explaining what happened here yesterday, but what I missed with Mr Van Weyenberg, I also miss with the Minister: I was here yesterday, in the House of Representatives, like fascists and Nazis. Mr Van Weyenberg stayed and did not say anything about it, and the Minister is not talking about it now either. That's what happens in this room. At the end of that debate, I received dozens of messages in which I had a death wish, in which I was called a Nazi and a racist. And why? Only because I stand up for the Dutch people. So if Mr Koolmees is using great words about the way the debate is being conducted here, then I think it is as neat as he puts it in the right perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u99	Point taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u100	Yeah, point taken. I have not heard here in the debate that you have been called a fascist or a Nazi. I didn't hear that. If it were, if it were... I didn't hear it, but if you can convince me of that, I'm open to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u101	Everything is in the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u102	If we can read that back in the Acts, I'm gonna distance myself from that too, Mr. De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u103	The minister said, "If he is, he's gonna get away from it."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u104	Mr. Chairman. I was just saying that I did not hear that in this debate yesterday. I have not heard that qualification in this debate, but if it were, I think that Parliament and I as a member of the government should withdraw from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u105	Mr. Kuzu, I'll see you at the interrupting microphone, and I'd like to give you the floor. It is good to put it right and to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u106	Mr. Chairman. For the record, I did not say that. I think that's a bit of a victim thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u107	No, you wouldn't!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u108	Chairman!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u109	That's what I thought. That is exactly why I said: you just have to stick to a small remark and not pull each other out again. Mr. De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u110	Mr. Chairman. The moment there's a people's representative here who says, "What would you say if I equate you with Nazis and fascists..."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u111	Yeah, I was there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u112	...you say that with that! That is what his supporters have heard and understood, and he has then chosen to threaten me with death, and then to call me racist and fascist. Mr. Chairman. That's what happens in this room. So the moment we say something about that, we all have to agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u113	Mr Kuzu, I'll give you the floor in a moment, but I think this is a really nasty discussion yesterday, too. A lot of things have been said that absolutely... It makes you feel very uncomfortable and I think you can say anything in this room. Fortunately, the Constitution protects all representatives of the people, that they are not prosecuted for what they say, but it goes wrong every time I say that here simply because there are all kinds of accusations. I would like to appeal to you, but also to the PVV, to keep it on its content and to stop with terms like Fascism and World War II or racism or... That's just very painful.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u114	Mr. Chairman. I agree entirely with you, so I would like to challenge Mr De Jong to take up the Acts and just read that piece properly. But then I also expect, as the Minister rightly points out, that groups of people are being shaved together, that they are being pushed aside, that they are being pushed away, that they are considered a problem, that we are showing the same sensitivity as you have just said. I fully agree with that. Mr. Chairman. I will leave it at that, but this is a point we need to discuss with each other. In any case, I welcome the Minister's appeal and also your appeal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u115	Then I suggest you proceed, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u116	Thank you, Madam President. Then on the content. There are three points I would like to make in the direction of Mr De Graaf. He has asked me these questions and therefore deserves an answer. The first proposal of the PVV is to close all mosques in the Netherlands. Mr De Graaf knows my answer. Freedom of religion is enshrined in our Constitution and there is no doubt about it. This also means that each religion must be able to build and use its own houses of prayer. The second proposal is to close the borders for all asylum seekers and for all immigrants from Islamic countries. Of course, the cabinet is not going to do that either. We want to provide shelter to refugees who need it, and we will not reject immigrants on the basis of their religion, because that is discrimination and thus also contrary to our Constitution. But if there are any concrete problems that I would like to say to Mr De Graaf, in the third place, we must, of course, do something about them. That's part of the point is that the most important thing is that you live together. Differences in society must and should be there, but differences are so marked, as the PVV often does in its input into this type of debate, does not help to understand each other. This kind of debate always tends to derail. I just don't think that's wise. Mr. De Graaf asked what the cabinet is doing about underground banking, which is a specific question, and also about the financing of mosques from abroad. Firstly, foreign financing is in principle permitted. So it doesn't have to be problematic, but foreign financing can be problematic. We have also seen examples of this, for example, if undesirable influence is bought with that funding or if funding causes problematic behaviour. As Mr De Graaf undoubtedly knows, this is the subject of a parliamentary questioning of your Chamber. In the meantime, we don't sit still as a cabinet either. We are working on a bill to restrict financial flows from so-called 'unfree countries' and we are aiming to submit an information request to the Council of State in January. "The legislative test," I mentioned earlier that information question to the Council of State. In addition, Mr Dekker is working on a transparency obligation for foundations. That bill is now before the Dutch Data Protection Authority for advice. The commitment is to send that bill to the Council of State for advice before the end of this year. There is also Task Force Problematic Behaviour and Unwanted Foreign Financing, which was set up under my Presidency. Several departments, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Justice and Security and the Ministry of Social Affairs, as well as the services, the AIVD and the STIVD, work together to take together and address these kinds of signals of problematic behaviour and unwanted foreign influence. So it's about problematic behavior, not criminal behavior. So you can't just prosecute it, but we find it undesirable in the Netherlands. So we do want to pursue policies and also offer municipalities an opportunity to act in order to intervene in the event of problematic behaviour. They will indeed be looking for ways to intervene effectively. As part of the understanding of undesirable financial flows from abroad, we will also address a point that Mr De Graaf mentioned yesterday, namely underground and informal banking. This is taken into account in the broader development of the Integrated Approach problematic behaviour and unwanted foreign funding. There are examples of how to finance problematic behavior that we in practice simply suffer from as a society. More generally, it is essential against the background of this whole task force that communities themselves are more resilient to unwanted influences. You can also see this in discussions about mosque authorities that have come back a number of times in recent years. For themselves, the Islamic communities are the first and greatest victims of this kind of foreign influence. On this subject, staff from the government and also from my ministry, from the ESS, the Social Stability Expertise Unit, are regularly in conversation with the various communities. Finally, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u117	On the previous point, Mr De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u118	Thank you for the Minister's commitment to underground banking. I would like to put the word 'hawalabanking' in there, which includes underground banking or shadow banking, which seems very similar to each other. I would like to add that to the Minister's commitment. I would also like to comment on the Minister's speech, because I hear a number of aspects that contradict each other or that are circular reasonings. I won't do it too widely, but it has to be said. I have questions about it, too. The Minister states that he wants to do anything against unwanted influence from abroad. He's talking about resilience to unwanted ideas from abroad. All the underlying thoughts are: Islamic influences. Because the Islamic ideology is now typically an exclusive, so exclusive theory. I told you in detail yesterday. It is an exclusive ideology in which Jews, Christians and lht'ers in particular have to pay for it: anyone who is not Muslim or is not Islamic. I would have liked the Minister to have included that in his introduction. This was also the subject of an interruption debate with my colleague De Jong. Because that is the biggest source of unwanted influence in the Netherlands. That's why we have to de-islamize. I come to the Minister's written reply on diversity. Diversity has been imposed by the government for 40 years. I asked for scientific evidence for the positive effects of diversity. There's no such thing. In his reply, the Minister also states that there is no evidence for negative effects either, but there is extensive evidence for that. There was a Danish meta-analysis recently. But I also mention Robert Putnam's 2007 American research.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u119	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u120	So did the minister create fake news yesterday, or is he willing to change his response?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u121	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u122	I will start with the second point, in a layered answer. My written response said: diversity is a fact of life. The Netherlands is a diverse country and there is diversity. Scientific studies have been carried out on components of diversity, for example on diversity in the boards of directors. They are very positive in terms of the performance of companies. That is such a concrete example of what then is the translation of such a scientific research into diversity. We have diversity in companies. The Secretary of State and I saw this together six months ago in twenty leading companies that have anchored diversity policies in their companies. This was also aimed at consumers, because the Netherlands is a diverse country. These are good examples of companies that take this into account and perform well. But the research of the WRR also shows, for example, that diversity in various neighbourhoods also leads to an unheimisch Gefühl, to put it once in bad Dutch. That is also the conclusion of the research carried out by the Scientific Council for Government Policy. People don't feel at home in their own neighborhood anymore. So scientific research has been done on different parts, but on diversity in general, you can't make a general statement. I would appreciate it if Mr De Graaf, in this kind of debate, would also keep an eye on layering and nuance. Because there is no such thing as "the diversity." That's one. The second part of my answer is about unwanted foreign interference. Mr De Graaf is sweeping that subject in one heap with Islamic countries. Mr Grapperhaus, the Minister for Justice and Security, has an obi-approach to this. That stands for unwanted foreign influence. That's what he shared with your room. This is precisely about all countries that try to influence the Netherlands either in diaspora politics or through other technological methods, via espionage and so on. We find all forms of it undesirable, regardless of its origin. I can't call you names, because then I'll get Minister Blok back on my plate. But this is a cabinet-wide trajectory that applies to all countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u123	A brief interruption by Mr De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u124	Of course, we've discussed a lot, Mr. Chairman. And I'm really trying to sum it up myself, so I'm done with the interruptions in this area in one row. I think that's more comfortable for the whole room and we can get to the hut spot fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u125	You said you were going to sum up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u126	We were talking about that concept of diversity. The Minister says in his answer: there is no evidence for one and no proof for another, it is just a fact of life, so basta. But it's not like that! It's negative for neighborhoods. Social cohesion is falling apart. And of course, on boards of directors are all people with very interesting and intelligent jobs, so maybe that's where things will go better. And a little sambal in the hut spot is pretty good. But half a pot of sambal in the hut spot isn't good anymore, because then it's not a cabin spot anymore. That is exactly the problem that many Dutch people have. If you have one Turkish family in the street, you'll be fine. If you have four Turkish families on the street, it's gonna go wrong. If you have six, you'll get shit like in Gorinchem. I haven't heard from the Minister yet. As I said yesterday, that is the coffee of our various societies. The insecurity is increasing. Here in the Chamber, all we talk about is Internet security. That is also important; people have to take care of it themselves. But what good is Internet security if you are beaten up on the streets by the diversity policy of this cabinet, which is constantly being promoted, that people are constantly getting to the ears and that people are tired?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u127	If you mention the cabin spot one more time, I'm gonna suspend for dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u128	Is that a threat or a promise? I find it difficult for Mr De Graaf, in an interruption, to put everything back together and toss it all together. With all due respect, he's turning it into some sort of hut spot. That sometimes makes me feel discouraged, I say to Mr De Graaf. I was trying to make a bridge. Apart from all the statements and all the qualifications, which I distance myself from, I tried to say: when it comes to real problems or real feelings of people who feel unsafe, then we have to work with them as a cabinet and then we have to take them seriously. I agree with that immediately. But it is also a fact that the Netherlands is a diverse country. Look at the super diversity in all our big cities. There are people from many countries in the world, but also a second and third generation. They are everywhere, including in parliament and in the departments. Shaving people in one place every time, throwing them together, not looking at the individual, but putting someone away as part of a group: I just distance myself from that. That deprives me of my attempt to answer. Is that a good formulation? Whatever you say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u129	Finally, on this point, Mr De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u130	That standard defense line of "shaving people in one place" doesn't cover the load and doesn't work anymore. That's not the point. What matters is that all those people who experience insecurity, who experience insecurity as a result of mass immigration and thus diversity. I said last week in the WHO that it is not SGP young people who practice pool terror. We know where they came from. We know what the backgrounds are. We also know from prison psychology, from Mr Sennels from Copenhagen, that this has a link with Islamic education. We see in Gorinchem where that leads. I am not saying that all Turkish people in Gorinchem are bad, but I am saying that the concentration is not good, that it is too much for the Dutch and that there is racist violence towards native Dutch people as a result of the diversity policy and its promotion. That's a fact of life. That's the fact of life. The Minister says that we want to conduct policies and deal with them well. Then I say: protect our leitkultur, said in Dutch, and talk to the victim of the week. But then I don't hear the Minister. No, but if there's anything else going on, he's first in the mosque.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u131	Again so many claims... I'm not going to dissect all of them and distance myself from them. Let me make it concrete. Yesterday Mr De Graaf asked about the question in Gorinchem. A letter was sent to the Chamber by the Minister of Justice and Security last week on that issue. I'm telling you, I've been half-tracking the news. I think the situation there is a lot grayer than you could initially see from the coverage. But that's not the point. We are constantly talking about general assertions, about the similitude of everything, with which Mr De Graaf is always setting up groups of people against each other. Stop it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u132	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u133	My final point. I have one amendment that has been tabled in my area; the other amendments are in the area of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u134	What number is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u135	That is the amendment to item No. 21 by Mr Peters and Mr Rog on making a contribution to the Week of Respect. As far as I'm concerned, that judgment is given to Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u136	Okay, thank you. Mrs. Van Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u137	I thought I'd close this block nicely for the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u138	Always good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u139	I'm sure he needs a job visit. I have a fantastic initiative. In Haarlem they do very good business to help 45-plussers get to work. The success rate is more than 40%. I'd like to present this leaflet to the minister through the messenger. Maybe he wants to go there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u140	Thank you for the offer, Mrs Van Brenn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u141	I'm going to see Mr. Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u142	Mr President, the risk is that I will close this block again... No, I just have a neat question, I guess. I take it that yesterday I asked a question that belongs to the Minister; I am not sure. I did not see any written reply. The question concerned disability insurance and, in particular, the link between self-employed deduction and compulsory invalidity insurance. I would like to know what the Minister thinks about this, also in the light of the opt-out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u143	Yeah, that's right, you didn't see that answer anywhere. That question wasn't answered by accident. I understand the thought behind it very well. In fact, I think it's a very interesting thought. She was even in the CDA election program, I know. We have looked at it over the past period, because we thought it was one of the variants for the elaboration of the aov-zzp. But in the implementation it is very complex, especially in the implementation by the Tax Administration, which has no data on it and cannot keep records on it either. That doesn't make it enforceable either. That is why it is not on the list for technical development. The IRS just can't do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u144	In itself, I understand that the Minister is looking creatively at the possibility of making a similar link. That's good for me. I can't wait to see what's coming this way. Just because I had a good idea like the CDA does me good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u145	The last two sentences about this. In the last Millions note, we have reduced the self-employed deduction to €5,000 in ten steps, with compensation through the employment discount. An amount has also been set aside for drawing up the proposals of the Borstlap Committee. This is again reserved for the self-employed. That could be part of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u146	About the opt-out. That was part of the pension agreement and disability insurance. But that opt-out only applies if an equivalent scheme is in place. So not an opt-out after, for example, no insurance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u147	That's right, that's the agreement made in the pension agreement, and that's also the assignment we gave to the social partners and thezzp clubs. By the way, in the agricultural sector, for example, examples of very cheap ways of insuring incapacity for work. There are also very good examples of bread funds that are very much appreciated, also by independent entrepreneurs. We have had that debate, but Mr Gijs van Dijk is right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u148	I was just looking at two amendments. One of these is from Mr Van Weyenberg on the labour market. The other is about integration and social cohesion. Those are the amendments to the Rules of Procedure. 27 and 24.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u149	The amendment in part No. 21 is the amendment tabled by Mr Peters and Mr Rog. That's what I gave Chamber judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u150	You have indeed dealt with that amendment. What about the other two?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u151	What is Mr Van Weyenberg's amendment about?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u152	That is the amendment to item No. 24.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u153	That is the amendment on Diversity in Company. I think that amendment is in the set with the Secretary of State...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u154	Okay. Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u155	...but I think we can give that judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u156	Oh, well, then that's solved, too. Thank you. There is another question from Mr Renkema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u157	I had a question that, although it concerns the policy area of the Secretary of State, I had explicitly asked the Minister. What does he think of the SCP study on the Participation Act in relation to the emphasis he constantly places on research and experiments?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u158	That's gonna be extensive...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u159	I'm generally incredibly committed to evidence-based policies. Mr Renkema knows that. That is why it is right that we should have independent experts look at how it works in practice. A substantive assessment of this will be given by the State Secretary. That's the Secretary of State's wallet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u160	I shall now give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u161	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, thank you very much for the contributions of the members of your Chamber. I have answered some of the questions in writing. I will also answer some of the questions orally. I will do so in a number of thematic blocks after my introduction. I gave them the titles: participation, debt and poverty, and finally, child care. Mr. Chairman. We want to contribute to a society in which all people have fair opportunities to participate and then seize those opportunities. For me, that was once the reason to go into politics. The question now before us is: where are we now? A very important question today is also: how can we find each other here to give people more opportunities? 'Cause life can get in the way of anyone. Anyone could lose their jobs. Anyone could end up in debt. That can happen to anyone, including you and me. I'm sure of that. And then you need to be able to count on a government that supports you, that's there for you when you need it and don't leave those people on the sidelines anonymously. That is also the commitment I have to improve a number of laws, including the Participation Act and the Wajong. We are dealing with a lot of individual people, each with their own situation. It is crucial that we handle this well for them and that we support people on the way to work, or an education, or a next step in their lives. At the beginning of next year, I will come up with the bill of broad offensive, with which I will take action on many fronts to help people with disabilities to get to work, and also to stay at work. I also say this in the direction of Mrs Van Brenk, who always makes a warm plea for it, and rightly so. And we have to make sure that work pays off there, too. A government you see also means tackling labour market discrimination. There is also a legislative proposal for this. But the government can't do it alone. Only together with the social partners, the civil society organisations, the municipalities, the UWV, the employers, and, not to mention, by talking to people who have to deal with regulations, can everyone participate. Last week I saw that the social debate focused mainly on the obligation to go back to work, but it is much more than that, as far as I am concerned today and in the future. The important thing is that everyone gets the chance to participate. I'm here to talk in detail about the Participation Act. That is what I am saying in the direction of Mr Jasper van Dijk, who walked a little behind. He can rest assured that we will discuss this extensively, because he has asked me to reflect on this law. But before I do that, I would like to stress here that the essence of the latest proposal I have made is to ask municipalities to make all the people in the assistance an offer that suits them and that is in their interest. This can be anything: help, volunteering, language lessons, internship, job application training and, of course, guidance to work. And yes, then I ask for something from municipalities. But what matters to me is that we don't write people off, we involve people and help people. Of course, participation requires an active attitude of people themselves. It also requires an active attitude from me and the Ministry. For example, we need to improve the provision of services to employers. Joining in also means that people have to be able to count on good help from the government when, for example, they end up in problematic debt, because they often go hand in hand with other problems in the field of work, health and social isolation, and result in people being sidelined or standing by. Mr. Chairman. In an inclusive society there is no place for unhealthy and dangerous work, which robs people of their health and future. That is why we have strict rules on working time and working conditions and we are committed to enforcement. Workers also have their own responsibility for healthy and safe working. Enforcement is also important in the area of social security, because abuse of social services, which we all share, undermines social support for social security, and thus for inclusive society. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to say that the higher objective, which I believe we are all pursuing, namely an inclusive society, is ambitious. I realize that very well. But a lot of things have already been put in the scaffolding. As far as I'm concerned, this is the time to build up. Soon I would like to reply to the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u162	This was the introduction. The Secretary of State is about to go into the House of Commons and I have the feeling that questions about this could arise on the Participation Act, on easy work and on a broad offensive for people with disabilities. I can see you standing by the interrupting microphone, but you're not moving, while I'm telling you there are a few more topics to discuss. But you want to ask a question about the introduction, I understand. Mr. Van Weyenberg, fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u163	The words of the Secretary of State very much pleased D66. She said that the offer for people, the execution of the Raemakers' motion, is not a kind of "for what's what" idea, but an offer for people to help them. It's just been murmured over the past week. I'm sorry to hear that, and I think the Secretary of State feels the same way. The text she just uttered could be put on the Facebook page of D66 and I hope the VVD on hers, because I liked that text a lot better than that picture. I would therefore like to put a very specific question as a sort of conclusion, so that we can draw a line.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u164	Yes, but you will!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u165	Do I understand correctly that we have agreed in the proposal that there is no mandatory consideration, no mandatory "goods for what," for people in the assistance?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u166	Mr. Van Weyenberg, you're taking an advance on the subject that the Secretary of State will elaborate on. I'd wait for that, wouldn't you? I would like to give the floor to the Secretary of State to answer that part. Then you will have the opportunity to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u167	I come here to talk about this in depth, Mr President. I think it is very good to give clear wine today on Mr Van Weyenberg's question. Let me begin by saying that I promised this in my introduction to the Act of Participation, which Mr Jasper van Dijk asked for. The evaluation of the SCP shows a number of things. It shows that the job opportunity for young disabled people has increased. The SCP also calls that a bright spot. At the same time, however, this evaluation also shows that the income position of these people is under pressure. I think that is worrying and I want to make that very clear. It is an important observation, however, that the employment rate has improved, because it was a very important consideration. The introduction of the Participation Act focused on this annual growing group. We have also involved the employment agreement and the use of sheltered work. These are two things which, as far as I am concerned, clearly show a positive development. But certainly also with the observation of the SCP on the income position of people, I think that we really need to do something about this. As far as I am concerned, this is also an important consideration of the legislative proposals on the broad offensive, which I hope to send to the Chamber shortly. The SCP further indicated that there are still too many people on the sidelines. Mr Renkema asked me to point that out. I would like to say to him that I think the title of the public report of the SCP is very well chosen. There is real work to be done, especially for the group of people the SCP points to. This is the second target group, which consists of the people who were on the waiting list for the WSW at the time of the introduction of the Participation Act. It is a very worrying observation that their chances of getting a job have been reduced. I also think that we should realise that the disappointment is great among people who were then expecting to get a certain place and did not get it. We must take this to heart, for example in the developments surrounding sheltered work and the explorations in the SW sector, which I shall come back to later. The third observation of the SCP concerns the Classical Assistance Group, in order to make that distinction. I find it very harsh, because we want all the people who are in the assistance, from whatever group they come, to have more perspective, to be seen, to have opportunities. Many of the people in the group of classical assistance, as the SCP calls it, have little or no contact with the municipality. That means there's a risk that people will feel written off. I don't think that's desirable. Maybe I should say it very quickly, because when I said in recent weeks that I find it unacceptable that so many people are standing aside, it was understood by a lot of people as if I were saying: and now everyone has to go back to work, tomorrow, 40 hours at most. If you read my words: when I say that I find it unacceptable that so many people are on the sidelines, I mean that I find it horrible and unacceptable that so many people know that they think that the government is not there for them. The SCP also provides other reports, about gaps in society, about people who think: is that government still there for me? One of the MPs mentioned the example of someone who had had four contacts with the municipality in ten years. I imagine you'd think at a time like this, "Do I still matter, can I be there?" And that at some point, you're also gonna drop out of society. I think that all of us, from the Empire and from the congregations, have the responsibility to say to people: you matter, I come next to you. As Mr Van Weyenberg said, I'll reach out to you, I may give you a boost in your back if necessary, but we'll go down this path together, we'll take another step in your development. That's what I want to do. That is also what I consider to be the task of the SCP report. There is a huge challenge for us, but that is also something we can achieve with each other now. For example, Mr Peters asked what such an appropriate offer could be. It could be anything as far as I'm concerned. What helps people make a step forward? Help, volunteering, language classes, an application training, an internship or something completely different. Last Saturday, at the congress of my party, I had to say "a woman" to me today and I had a very intense conversation with her. She said she was on welfare and she came to me to have this conversation. She'd love to work, but she couldn't work. She had to deal with a severe psychological vulnerability. I'm not gonna tell you what she's been through here. She was very open to me about it, but I find that too intimate. She told me that she struggled with it, that it had left a mark on her life and that she had tried to work, but that it didn't work now. She had asked the congregation if it was okay, because it was not possible for her to put her life story on paper. The city said it was okay. She did so in the agreements with the municipality to take the next step. She had written her life story and it took her a lot of effort. She said to me, "I did, do you think this is a good consideration?" Quite frankly, I was moved by what this lady said, by the strength and the vulnerability she radiated at the same time. I gotta tell you, I was a little full, too. I said to her: how very brave that you are telling this story here today, because it takes a lot of work. What a great thing about that congregation that she sees that this is what you need at the moment and that she did not say to you: go tomorrow with the next attempt to work at 40 hours, but go with us to try to take this next step in your life. What that appropriate offer looks like, I don't care, the municipality can decide for itself in consultation with people. That is also the strength of the motion tabled by the Chamber. If you say: we make that appropriate offer, we leave no one on the sidelines, we reach out to everyone that hand, then we can broadly say that we can really mean something to people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u168	No, the Secretary of State isn't done yet, is he?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u169	Mr. Chairman. I gotta say, it's a hell of a block. Let me put it this way: within the competition... I've brought in a lot already.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u170	No, it's okay, but I have here that you would say something about the evaluation, the Participation Act and an appropriate offer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u171	Mr. Chairman. I shall deal with a few notions on the basis of specific questions put by the Chamber. Maybe that'll help.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u172	Okay, fine. Maybe that'll help. Otherwise, it's hard to interfere.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u173	Yes. Mr. Gijs van Dijk asked about the effects of the obligations on the outflow to work. That is an important element in this discussion. The SCP has examined the obligation in the Participation Act. The researchers write literally: "From our analyses, it does not follow that municipal policy is related to the outflow from the assistance to work." The SCP also states that these findings should be interpreted with caution. An indication could be that this part of the Participation Act is not yet successful in its design. I appreciate the SCP and the evaluation, where it puts very good fingers in sore places. And this is one of those. In that light, Mr Kuzu asked me about municipal autonomy. The safety net is not non-committal. The assistance is a safety net for all those who need it, but municipalities know their inhabitants. I just turned that in. They know what the best offer can be. Municipalities are in the lead as far as I'm concerned. I hope that I have correctly indicated to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen, who drew attention to people in the health care sector, with the illustration I gave, that tailor-made work is needed in a personal situation. Mrs. Tielen asked me what municipalities need. My intention is to amend the Participation Act so that municipalities can agree with everyone on the necessary support. Let it be clear: I see that more and more municipalities are opting for a very active approach. I see that in Amsterdam, I see that in Den Bosch, I see that in Zwolle, I see it in the Drechtsteden, I see it in Rotterdam, I see it in municipalities with different political backgrounds: just this active and positive approach of people to engage with people with benefits and to achieve good results. Finally, Mr. Chairman, in this small block. Mr Van Weyenberg asked me to confirm that there will be no mandatory compensation for everyone in the assistance. I say to him that the compensation is an instrument of assistance. That is the case now, and it will remain so. The portee of this discussion is not that everyone gets a mandatory consideration, but that we say together: everyone gets an appropriate offer from the municipality to take a step forward in their personal development and that is done together in a non-binding manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u174	After these words I would almost offer a membership form of the Labour Party to the Secretary of State, because I can really support that almost one hundred percent. It's about guiding, taking by the hand. But does the Secretary of State understand that the pain for many people has already been suffered because of the communication especially from the VVD, where it was very much about an obligation and chasing? As a result, many people feel put in the corner, perhaps among them the woman who spoke to the Secretary of State at the Congress of the VVD. Because they want a government and a cabinet and parties that say: we want to help you. That is what the SCP concludes. Does the Secretary of State understand the anger and also the incomprehension of all those people who feel put in a corner by the messages from the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u175	Let me put it this way. I saw a headline in the paper. It was about the consideration and all kinds of things that were not what was at the heart of my message, namely: an appropriate offer that is not without obligation, from those different sections, for everyone. I always say: I'm about what's in the quotes; I'm not making the headlines in the paper. In all honesty and sincerity I understand that that was of course the first thing everyone spoke about. Can I have said the following? A number of groups in this Chamber have said: you think that reciprocity is so important, and I think that personal development is so important. We have taken a look at the values behind this discussion. And you know, reciprocity is actually okay with me. And you know, personal development is actually very good. So can we do something with each other that transcends this almost ideological trench? Can we do something that people are really waiting for? This concerns all those people about whom the SCP says "they have been at home for far too long without looking at them." I would find it incredibly powerful, even from how I weighed the input, but also from the municipalities, for example, to say with one another, just with a broad representation,: can we explore this, and could this work? I would really love that, because I think we all want the same thing, just when we explore these underlying values with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u176	Yeah, and with those underlying values, it's no secret that there's a rather different starting point for coalition partners, too. If you can then find each other in something that actually puts people's interests at the centre... I also like that from the Raemakers motion and the fact that it has been supported so widely in the Chamber. The offer is, in fact, that we make sure that we don't leave people in the cold. We don't let people down. The Secretary of State uses fine words for that, but that also means, as far as I am concerned, and I also understood the letter of Parliament, that the image of the consideration, the philosophy in the vein of "you get money from the government and you have to do something for it, not because it's good for you, but because you have to do something for the benefit money," was not in the letter of the Chamber. The letter said: people receive an appropriate offer that is not non-binding, and that offer must be aimed at getting them back in. Did I get it right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u177	Yes, and I have indicated that that appropriate offer is not non-binding... Look, we have instruments in the Participation Act of different characters and different orders. Municipalities put it in. This includes social activation and reintegration. The consideration is also one of them. There are municipalities that use it in a way that suits them. I personally do not have a negative connotation, but I can see that it lives with a lot of people. We have also commissioned research in a number of municipalities, namely Amsterdam, Den Bosch and Amersfoort, into what people in the assistance themselves and the general public think about this. Actually, a lot of people say, whether they're on welfare or not, "I'm actually really okay with doing something. In fact, it makes me feel better." So let's have the discussion with each other. We now have some 200,000 reintegration facilities and we invest them with about 180,000 people, while there are 400,000 people in welfare. So there's a lot more we can do. And what I find handsome about the coalition, and I also recognize it by elements called the SCP, and it is also a huge intrinsic motivation for me: how can we help people a step further? I have done it a little more comprehensively, President-in-Office of the Council. And then you start with yourself: the non-committality at the Ministry out. The SCP also says that employers' services can be improved. The non-committality of municipalities must also be removed. They do not approach many people, no matter how hard they work. And if you get an appropriate offer, Mr Van Weyenberg said that yesterday he was very nice himself, and if you are given that hand, you will also take it when you are in that arrangement. Then you're gonna get that hand handed to you, and then you're gonna pull up together and you're gonna take that next step together. That's what I'm talking about. I also intend not to allow all kinds of images to be created for three months now. It's an explicitation of a legal text. It's legally quite simple. I just want to get a consultation going very quickly, so that the whole of the Netherlands can talk along and think about how this law should take shape.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u178	You have most of everyone's interruptions, Mr. Van Weyenberg. I'll give you that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u179	Mr President, I count with you. The essence of the Secretary of State's answer is that there is support for people, because they know that it is meant to help them and not to make them feel guilty.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u180	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u181	That's what I'm looking for. So that means that the image of the consideration as "recover" is gone. The image of "we're gonna help you get started, and then we expect you to join us" is a good approach from people. That's nice. I'm glad that image is gone. I also hope that the Secretary of State will continue to do so in the near future, including at the UNG and others, because there has been a very persistent misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u182	Good. Then I will go to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen, because this was a statement by Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u183	I am very pleased with the words of the Secretary of State, I must say. That is quite unexpected, because I was very bright yesterday in my speech. But that is also because a lot of people have e-mailed me, like the particularly vulnerable lady who addressed the Secretary of State. I even got a call today. People were very happy that I answered the phone as a Member of Parliament, and that they could just tell a Member of Parliament their story. I even called the number of suicide prevention, and it sounds really intense, and that's what it's like to ask them how to answer people who say, "If these plans go ahead and if I'm forced to do this, when I can't work... I want to, but I really can't." I asked: how should I respond to that? I would like to ask the Secretary of State: how on earth is it possible that this has been communicated so wrongly to people? Those people are incredibly vulnerable and...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u184	Clear. The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u185	...needs trust and support from the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u186	Let me say this. I've been walking around in the complex world of social security since around 2002, in any way. My experience is that people who are dealing with regulations rarely see a change as an improvement, often because they have experienced it so over time. The communication about how you do things must therefore receive special attention. That is why I went to the Divosa Congress today, where many people from client councils are represented. That is why I also invite municipalities and the field to hold this conversation together. That's why I checked where it came from. When I say as a representative of a government that I find it unacceptable for people to be sidelined, a lot of people hear: I have to work tomorrow. That's why I'm saying it very explicitly now, because I don't want to write anyone off. So this is an assignment for me and for all of us to talk about this, and people who represent the target group and ask people from the target group themselves: how can we do this correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u187	I have to say that it has not only been wrong for people in the welfare system, but also for municipalities. Yesterday or the day before yesterday, aldermen posted an open letter in the Dagblad van het Noord, in which they wondered: what is the Secretary of State doing? They thought it was a kind of pavlov reaction of distrust and think that people need more love. It is therefore not well communicated to the municipalities and the aldermen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u188	I hope that I can make it clear to the people who felt that they had to respond to a proposal that everyone has to work tomorrow, with this contribution, that that is not the proposal. I'll open an invitation. That is why I think it is important to open up what I do want to change to the law as soon as possible for consultation so that everyone can read along. This remains a route to communicate well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u189	Finally. How will the Secretary of State prevent large differences in the mandatory compensation, as it has been mentioned? For now she says about that mandatory consideration that it may also be a non-binding development for yourself, for example writing down your life story, if that is the only thing that brings you further; and that is already very difficult for many people to do. How will the Secretary of State prevent it from being introduced very tightly in one municipality and that writing your life story is sufficient in the other municipality?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u190	This isn't the consideration. The counterpart is one of the instruments set out in the Participation Act. But the proposal I am making here to give everyone an appropriate offer is basically over everything. For example, an appropriate offer from a municipality can be that you are doing a reintegration process. An appropriate offer could be to ask someone for social activation. An appropriate offer may be that you see that someone needs a listening ear. But everyone being seen is at the heart of the proposal, because there are still too many people who are not in touch and think that the government is not there for them. But it is up to people themselves to look together with the congregations to see what would suit them and what would help them. So I would really like to take away the impression that I am drawing up one instrument in the Participation Act and saying that this should actually apply to everyone. It is precisely the overall approach that we advocate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u191	This is a lot like an operation damage control. However, in the last week the message has been sent that people with benefits, people on welfare, profiteers, they are getting free money, and that they have to pay compensation and get to work as far as the VVD is concerned. Think of working without wages, displacement and so on. But many people in welfare, for example, have a job handicap. They really want to work, but they don't get to work. Isn't that very offensive to those people? And isn't it even more painful if we have to read again this week that there are politicians who get quite a lot of money for doing nothing? Wait money! Wait money! For example, the group chairman of the VVD. Did you say to Mr Dijkhoff: 'Dear Klaas, this week you were not the'smart man'; stop waiting money, because it cannot be explained to society?'
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u192	As a result of the first part of his interruption, I have the feeling that Mr Jasper van Dijk has not read the words in quotes that I can count on. I get the feeling that he is not quoting from the letter that I sent to the Chamber or that he is doing justice to what I have said in various television programmes. He is thus not doing justice to the contribution I have just made. I really think it's a bit of a caricature. I would like to say the following to Mr Jasper van Dijk. Here is a topic that I see in the country aldermen with a SP background up to and including a VVD background want to do the good things to people who are independent. Whether it is the alderman of Amsterdam who is not of his party, but the previous alderman of Amsterdam did say that we are going to reduce the caseload so that we can provide a better service. Or it's the alderman in Den Bosch, who says, "Whether you need a day's work or a day's work, you can go to us." That's how it happens in a lot of different places. I refer to the alderman in Rotterdam, a Social Democrat, who says: we stand next to people and we ask how we can help them. I see here in particular that we can get out of these ideological trenches and take a step forward with each other. I'd really like to be able to unite at this point. I would very much like to work with Mr Jasper van Dijk as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u193	The opposition to the compensation last week was massive. This came from aldermen, from municipalities, from the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau and from the people who receive welfare benefits themselves, for example if they have a disability. They're dying to work, but they're not getting a job. What do they want with the VVD? To provide a mandatory consideration. The Secretary of State has not answered my question as to how that relates to the payment of waiting money, which I think really amounts to doing free money for nothing. You have been a minister for a few weeks, and then received €37,000 on top of your MP's salary! Do you think that is appropriate or do you understand the society that says: this simply cannot, this is shameless, that money should give back such a politician?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u194	Each scheme contains rights and obligations. They're also in the Participation Act. You're gonna answer for that. That's what you do with the Participation Act in the office. I'm not going to comment on arrangements that I'm not about. Mr Jasper van Dijk cannot expect this from me. But what I can do is respond to the question he's asking. When it comes to people with disabilities, to young people with disabilities, the job agreement does mean that more jobs have been created than should have been planned at the moment. The income position of people is indeed under pressure. That's what I'm charging myself for. That is why the Breed Offensive, which I hope will be sent to the Chamber in the first quarter of the year, I hope will be released even in January. I refer to other arrangements relating, for example, to the search period that people are dealing with. We are also doing this in order to ensure that we can also simply cash in the lessons that the SCP draws. Because that's what it takes in the end. And when it comes to the people in what we call classical assistance. I didn't give any interviews this week about the consideration. I've been giving interviews about an appropriate offer for everyone. And that's what I'd like to discuss with the Chamber. And the offer stays on the table as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u195	I keep finding it complicated. I could still fully follow the Secretary of State in her introduction when she said that we all want to go for that higher goal of an inclusive society here. But at the same time last week we received a report from the SCP and a policy response to it, but also a response from those Raemakers motion. The SCP report is actually very clear. It says: the Participation Act is not right at the moment when it comes to starting points. There are doubts about the principles on which that law was built. It's said, it's actually not right. One of the most important was the emphasis on sanctions, incentives and coercion. And then we get the letter from the Raemakers motion. That is a very complicated motion of an A4's for a long time, where the coalition parties can gibberish out something that appeals to them most. It actually concludes: the municipalities are not doing well and I am going to change the law so that the municipalities will do it. The aldermen think that's a very strange move. But not only the municipalities are forced. The same letter says, "If someone doesn't want to, we're gonna force it." Then that's not without obligation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u196	I'm going to count this question for seven questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u197	Two, perhaps, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u198	It really needs to be short.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u199	My question is: can the Secretary of State explain why in the same week that we get that report that says "force doesn't work, incentives don't work, sanctions don't work" comes up with a letter saying: I'm going to impose more on municipalities and the municipalities need to impose more on people in welfare? That is my question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u200	About the timing. The SCP carried out the investigation, the evaluation, for the Ministry. We have, of course, also had the opportunity to prepare a cabinet response. As soon as you send such an investigation to the Chamber, you should also send the response, I think. That's where the timing comes from. The SCP rightly puts a finger on a number of sore spots. I think that's very good, because otherwise we'll just keep going without looking in the mirror every now and then. One of the things the SCP says is: is the distance bridgeable? And what about activation through mandatory sanctions? On the contrary, I believe that the letter, which also refers to the Raemakers motion, can make that bridge. Just by saying, okay, a lot of people can't get to work tomorrow. They do have that association with some instruments in the Participation Act. Working is the purpose of that law and as far as I am concerned it remains so. What we then miss is the road to it, or at least a step forward. That is why the coalition has actually said: with the appropriate offer you will actually overcome that discussion. You create an appropriate offer for everyone, which is really a personal thing. I also think it is right that this should reflect the SCP's observation that not everyone is moving in the right direction with incentives. The question is: what suits you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u201	What I understand from contacts with aldermen is that they say: we understand very well that a lot of people are at a distance from that labour market. We also want to talk to them, but we lack resources. If the Secretary of State says "I'm going to ask a lot more from municipalities," is she willing to put butter on the fish?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u202	It's a legitimate point, of course, if you're going to have this conversation, that this is one of the topics. Not for nothing have I also decided to go into the consultation very quickly. The motion asks me to look at services within the current financial framework. That is my starting point; I am going to be very honest with you. I sometimes hear that it can be cheaper, smarter and better. So I'm going to put the question very explicitly in the consultation: can I? I'm also gonna ask if it might cost more money, because I hear those sounds too. But let me give you one example. We now have pilots in three places in the Netherlands where we look at the relationship between people with a ggz problem and a benefit. Then you see that, where a municipality invests in someone with a benefit, the benefits come from the health insurance company and the healthcare provider. So that's another system. There are bulkheads in between. We have seen pilots in the Drechtsteden, where spending on benefits has fallen by tens of percent. If those partners in such a pilot say "we're putting it all together," then that's a lot of money. By the way, those involved in this project are actually even more important, I think: "I have a weekend for the first time in my life." Because that's what's happening. But let's focus on the financial aspect. I'd like to explore that first. We see advances in that law, because a person on welfare benefits never only has a welfare allowance. Very often there is also Wmo support and people on other fronts are also in the picture. I'd like to open that conversation with congregations, with open sights. I don't have any taboos. I have also heard municipalities say: we need the law to be amended on a number of points. I want to talk about this openly and then money may, as far as I am concerned, also be a subject. But the motion says: do it first within the existing financial frameworks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u203	Rounding up. In my view, this does not alter the concern that the Secretary of State will now be asking and demanding more from municipalities through a legislative amendment. And they need to ask and demand more from people. This should all be done by the same means that they now have. Can't that care be taken away?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u204	At least I have the feeling that it is important to discuss the question first: what do we mean by each other? I'm from the local government myself, and I understand that money is always a discussion point. But I'd like to talk to each other first about what we mean by an appropriate offer. I am making a move in this direction and, as far as I am concerned, any reaction can be given to it. I realize that this is really one of the topics.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u205	I think the Secretary of State explains very carefully and specifically what her letter was supposed to be. I read the letter the same way, but it's nice to hear it like that. We hear about different groups. We have also read in the SCP report about different groups of welfare recipients. Some cannot and some also find it difficult to want, so to speak. How can the Secretary of State help the municipalities to have the conversation with the group that finds it difficult to respond to that non-binding appropriate offer? That conversation could still be a challenge.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u206	That's right. It is always important not to confuse groups, but there is indeed a group of people, as the SCP also indicates, who say: "Yes, you know. I can, but I don't want to." Of course, we have a very different conversation, because in the end it is also important for the support of our social services that we know that a benefit ends well. I also said in that interview: I feel and I am the Secretary of State for all the people who are in the welfare service and who want to, but cannot, but I am also the Secretary of State for the people who are paying taxes for these services. As far as I am concerned, that is the balance sheet. I also think that municipalities should pay attention to this, because this is the basis for solidarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u207	Are there also specific pilots in municipalities to actually help this group move forward?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u208	I can't say that out of my mind, but I'd like to come back to that later. I must first see if I can give examples of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u209	I'll see how far you're at. A lot of questions have been asked, and you have also dealt with many other issues in the course of interruptions. Perhaps you could take us into the rest of your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u210	I'll try to do that a little pointier, Mr. Chairman. I will answer a number of questions. Mrs Van Brenk asked whether there could be one integrated scheme for the bottom of the labour market. We have, of course, already taken an important step with the simplification of the Participation Act. We have done so by combining three regulations, but that law is still in motion. I will give it to Mr Peters, because he said that municipalities do not want to change this Act of Participation too much during its implementation. I see that the SCP also focuses on implementation practice. I also think we should act there. Mr Renkema also pointed out that in practice there was not yet a single arrangement and asked further about the job appointment and sheltered work. I sent evaluations to the Chamber last week. At the moment, I do not see any direct reason to make any major changes to this, but we do need to reduce the complexity of jobseekers and employers. Mr Renkema also asked the Minister, but I will also tell him here that I too am in favour of research-based policies. That is why I am very pleased with the SCP study on the functioning of the Participation Act and also with the input of parties from daily practice. It may have received less attention in the SCP report, but under the Participation Act we also have experiments in a number of municipalities. This is precisely what we do in order to gain scientifically-based insight into the impact of various interventions on the flow to work. I share the results of these experiments with your Chamber in the spring. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Tielen said that sometimes training is also needed to get to work and stay. Are there any possibilities for that in the Participation Act? That is indeed an important subject. If the municipality considers that the reintegration into the labour market requires training, the municipality can lower the application requirement. Single parents with a child up to 5 years of age may, upon request, be exempted from the application requirement. The municipality then together with this parent makes a plan to get to work. If the parent does not have a start-up qualification, it is at least a question of training. Mr. Chairman. And the interruptions have shown that it is also about the service, about making the right match. In this context, I would like to refer to the 35 million boost, including in 2020, for regions to help job seekers get to work. GroenLinks made a warm plea for a one-stop shop. I say to them that there is certainly a first step to this by creating a single public point of contact for employers in each labour market region, where there is the same package for services and where job seekers can be seen on profile and there is a clear set of tools and conditions. In the context of participation, we are also talking about discrimination, labour market discrimination. Clearly, I want everyone to be able to participate. This also means that we are going to amend the law so that the inspection can monitor the presence of a method of recruitment and selection, in order to prevent and combat any form of discrimination. The same applies to age discrimination, I say to Mrs Van Brenn. By way of a motion from Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Peters, the Chamber asked for a notification requirement for discriminatory applications to temporary employment agencies. I informed the Chamber yesterday that I agree with the objective, but that this leads to practical objections and that I would like to examine alternatives, including the mandatory reporting code. Mr Kuzu asked me how the Chamber is actually informed about the functioning of this law. The legislative amendment will have an evaluation clause, which will also evaluate its operation. I shall, of course, inform the Chamber of the results of this. In the run-up to the introduction of the law change, the Employers' Labour Survey of TNO asks to what extent employers are aware of the change in the law and to what extent they are already taking action. I will also report on this when the first measurement has taken place. I also had an exchange of views with Mr Kuzu on the fines. He asked if the fines were high enough. With regard to the level of fines, I have sought to join the existing system of fines of the Arbowet. Of course, you can argue about the level of fines, but let me say this: taking and shaming is perhaps still the biggest punishment. Mrs Palland asked me about the awareness of employers of reintegration tools. We can see from this evaluation that there has been an increase in fame since 2015, for example on labour costs subsidies and job coaches, but especially large employers are better informed than small employers. I am therefore working with the Minister to see how we can increase the awareness of the no-risk policy, which could be a solution for many people. I also adapt the SUWI Decision, which gives employers a better understanding of the services and tools available to employers in municipalities and UWV. Mr. Chairman. As far as the Breed Offensive is concerned, I have already indicated that I would like to submit the amendment of the Participation Act on this subject to the Chamber at the beginning of next year. Mrs. Van Brenn asked for attention to the case of the Kanters family. I say to her that I also find it important in this law that rules are stimulating and that working also pays for people with disabilities, who want to get to work or who are already working. That is one of the very specific points that I would also like to deal with in this law. Mr Jasper van Dijk asked me about social services. Let's be clear, I think we share that opinion. It's nice when people get to work with regular employers as much as possible. That is also what the instruments in the Participation Act and the Jobs Agreement are aimed at. But for people who cannot work with regular employers, there is sheltered employment with the right to a job in case of positive advice. I think it is important that social work companies have a prominent place. I also taste the sw-old style in the Chamber, even Mr Jasper van Dijk's version is not necessarily the desired format. What matters is that we do not separate people, but that it should be normal to have colleagues with disabilities and that we want an inclusive provision with each other. I believe that sw-new style, social development companies, can contribute to the implementation of the Participation Act when it comes to playing an inclusive role. Fortunately, there are many municipalities that take advantage of their knowledge and expertise. I also see that the vast majority of the municipalities employ these companies. Cedris indicates that more than 90% of social development companies contribute to the implementation of parts of the Participation Act and now almost 70% to a Posting Facility. The extent to which this is being used is currently being investigated. I expect to be able to inform the Chamber at the beginning of the coming year. These are positive developments in the social infrastructure for me, because they also make use of the infrastructure to achieve sheltered work. I'm glad that's getting going right now. The Ministry staff will indeed visit SOWECO on 5 December.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u211	Is this the end of the social employment system?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u212	As far as I'm concerned, I'm finished with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u213	Okay. Then Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u214	I see this chapter as a half-full glass, because the Secretary of State actually says a lot of things that I like. She says that municipalities that have a sw company are doing well and that she appreciates it. That's great. In my own proposal, which I launched yesterday, I said that we should try to ensure that the whole country is a covering network of sw companies. Because now we run the risk that there are areas where municipalities and groupe say: we quit. That would be a shame to me, just like VNO and the unions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u215	Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u216	That's one point. The second point, of course, is that there are still very severe cuts in the areas of social work. I would also like to make up for that with investments. Then all the way to the end. The Secretary of State rightly mentions SOWECO. Very nice that a visit is planned on December 5th. It is greatly appreciated if the Secretary of State himself would go, I can tell you. This is a beautiful sw company we shouldn't let go of.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u217	On that last point, I know. But I can't do everything, even agendaically. I have a number of appointments that day and I know that Mr Jasper van Dijk also thinks that progress is important. I think it's important that we have these talks from the Ministry. People speak for me, too. At least that's what I want to say. I really sympathize with Mr Jasper van Dijk. I also feel that we are going to have a number of documents in the near future. That could be from the ESC, but it is also possible that we will be able to get that investigation on the posting facilities. I myself, as I shall confess here, have said a Cedris reading that it might be a challenge to see if you can clear up a position for a sw company in every labour market region. This is mainly up to the sector itself. However, I have a feeling that we are approaching each other. We could do it in such a way that, for example, when we discuss the Breed Offensive, when we have all these issues, we can see whether we really find the infrastructure adequate at that time or whether we can still take steps there. The Chamber has tabled a number of motions, and I am implementing them. I really expect results from the investigations requested by the Chamber in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u218	Yes, Mr. Jasper van Dijk? Then Mrs. Van Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u219	I thank the Secretary of State for taking up the case I brought in from the Kanters family. She's already sent a letter there. Thank you for that, but I would like to know when work is going to pay. You say "we start next year," so when does the daughter of that family actually mark that in her wallet?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u220	I am always very hesitant to say in an individual situation "this happens" so I'm not going to do that now, for example, if only because, depending on the personal situation of someone, there may also be a supplement or other amenities. So that's impossible to say from here on out. But there is also the Breed Offensive and the amendment of the Participation Act, similar to the regime for people with a medical hours restriction, where we have an exemption regime that will give people an exemption of about €130. In the Wajong people went through the old saw tooth system with more work backwards, but later that is not the case anymore. Those are laws that are really going to be a step forward for a lot of people. As far as I am concerned, they are moving in as quickly as possible, but my ambition with regard to these income schemes under the Participation Act is at least 1 January next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u221	I will come back to the social security companies. SOWECO has been mentioned for a while. I have been there at the beginning of this week and I hope that the Secretary of State will be there at the beginning of December. I can tell it's complicated. There is a region there with different municipalities. Nor do I think that we should join each other in this municipal freedom by saying: it must look like this or something. But does the Secretary of State agree with me that there should be at least one social development company in each labour market region in which several municipalities work together?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u222	Of course, we have agreed that municipalities are going about this, but I think it is an interesting idea. Not for nothing have I suggested it myself once in the Cedris-lecture. But I think it is also up to the sector itself and the municipalities to look at this. Also in the light of Mr Renkema's motion on the Posting of Workers Facility at the time, I can see that we want to keep what is right together. It is precisely for people with a vulnerable position in the labour market that we want to maintain this infrastructure. So I do not think the dust has yet descended from this discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u223	I also welcome the opportunity offered by the Secretary of State for this new form of social development. We're gonna talk about that soon. It would help us very much if we asked the Economic and Social Council for an update of the exploration which was carried out there one and a half years ago or two years ago. I also know that is what people want there. Because all the advice helps to create sturdy and good social development companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u224	My proposal would be to see what's coming out. I also mention the ESC's offer to see what's in the landscape now. I expect the results in the not too long term. I will tell you in the second term when exactly they will come. If we had those results inside, we could say that such an actualization would be fine. But I also want to keep us from bumping into research. At some point, we're just gonna have to find something and do something. So can I come back to this in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u225	I'd still like to continue on the story about SOWECO. The Secretary of State says: this of course lies with the municipalities and they are responsible for it. That's true. But we have also been able to read in the reports that parts of groups of people with disabilities who are not working anywhere can no longer end up in places like this. So there is still a whole world to be won when it is directed. My question is therefore: could the Secretary of State take control? Could she take the direction to ensure that the goal, as many people as possible get to work, is also achieved? Is it prepared to take control of these labour market regions, with SOWECO and those municipalities themselves, in order to resolve it there? That way she can fix it there, so she can set an example for the rest of the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u226	Let me say this about it. A municipality is free to make its own choice for the way it organises the work. Den Bosch doesn't do it like Almelo. In Den Bosch, for example, social work services have gone together with social services and there they offer a wide range of opportunities. In other parts of the country, the municipality places people with regular employers. I would like to insist that it is ultimately a question of respecting people's rights and having a job. In addition, there are the issues surrounding sheltered work, the sw companies. I know that Mr De Jong has been hard on this for a long time. On the one hand, we say that it can fit the local situation and that municipalities can do it themselves. But on the other hand, we see the value of organizations. That's what we want to see in that infrastructure. I take the direction in so far as we regularly look with the 35 labour market regions to see if we can work together on these kinds of issues. In addition, at the request of the Chamber, I now have a number of cases in progress. I would actually like to wait and see the results, then whether I should take a step, or whether I could ask the sector to take a step. I understand very well the point made by Mr De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u227	Can the Secretary of State set a deadline for that? The people in these target groups are also looking at these kinds of debates and they are also seeing the struggle. They see that perhaps there is a real intention to help the group, but that it just doesn't always work. So can the Secretary of State give you something of certainty and give you a term? Can she outline when the moment will be when she says, "I'm gonna take that direction or not?" And can she say anything about how that happens?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u228	That's a fair point. I'm just gonna map out when everything comes up, and I'll report it in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u229	Fine. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u230	The next two cubes are a lot shorter. I will also delete some of that, because we have, of course, had a recent debate on poverty and debt. I'll end the questions. Mr Wörsdörfer asked me how I would like to use more prevention and early warning. In any case, I would point out that these are already legal tasks, because debt prevention is part of the municipal plan for comprehensive debt relief. Financial education and information on life events are concrete examples of this. But early warning is covered by the Municipal Debt Aid Act. I am pleased that the Chamber has taken forward the proposed legislative proposal and has asked questions about it, such as how to facilitate the exchange of information. I would also like to discuss this with the Chamber in the near future. Mr. Chairman. Mr Stoffer asked how I deal with the Council's proposals for justice on access to debt restructuring. The Council's vision paper on justice contains valuable proposals that contribute to solutions for the large group of citizens with problematic debts. The vision document can help us to make legal debt restructuring more accessible. In spring 2020, I will inform you, together with the Minister for Legal Protection, about progress. Mrs Van Brenk asked about another important issue when it comes to debt: the Simplification Act. I'm telling you quite frankly, it's a difficult journey. We all want it quickly; we wanted it to happen yesterday. We also have a free-of-wound foot at the moment, but it makes it easier. It's a difficult journey. Together with my colleague, the Secretary of State for Finance, I am unhappy with the previous setback. We are, however, sticking to the intended date of entry into force of 1 January 2021. Mrs Van Brenk says that it is unacceptable and asks me to say the same thing if it were to be later. Here I look for the balance between being transparent to the Chamber about the moments when I expect important "go/no go" decisions, and at the same time be honest that it is not 100% sure. At the same time, I think it is of the utmost importance. I have seized those go/no go moments to say: at those moments I give the Chamber clarity. That is why I will inform the Chamber again at the beginning of 2020. By the way, everyone is working very hard on this. I now have the feeling that I miss a question from Mr Peters about people in debt with rent deficits. He referred to this; we also discussed this in the AO. I repeat that my colleague, the Secretary of State of the United States of America, who is a coordinating director, also coordinates the use of SZW in this respect. We are sitting at the table to work on the letter he wants to send to the Chamber before the end of the year, if I am correct. Mr. Chairman. I'm coming to daycare, the last block.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u231	I'm really gonna use the rest of my interruptions for this part...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u232	Is there that many?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u233	... because I was dissatisfied with the answer to my case around Karel, who is 80 years old and in a residential care center. The Secretary of State says it's in the municipality. I have put forward a very specific point that really puts people in serious trouble. The Housing Association says that if you only have AOW, and that's this case, you can't pay more rent than €608. That's what the rent subsidy is about. But Karel pays €667 and therefore has a difference in what he gets in compensation. That means he has to pay more €35 per month. Since the government wants the housing centres for its own benefit, the AOW is obliged to pay that bill. That's wrong, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u234	That's so specific, I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u235	Then perhaps it would be useful if you gave me a case, Mrs. Van Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u236	I've already done that twice. I'll make sure I do it again, very specific.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u237	Well, I don't know...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u238	We have given an answer, I see now. Indeed, Mrs Van Brenk would certainly have provided the specific information. But as a result of such an individual case, it is very difficult to make generic policies. Therefore, municipalities should be able to provide customised services. In this case, I would refer Mrs Van Brenk to the call that can be made on municipal minimum support.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u239	This is chicken and egg again. There is no full fee. That's gonna get people in trouble. I asked a specific question: what is an acceptable limit for fixed charges? The Nibud has made a statement on this, namely that you should not lose more than 60%; 50% would be better. But Karel's already at 67%. Where does this Secretary of State draw the line?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u240	It is very difficult to make a generic statement about the individual situation of people. I just can't do that. Take the discussion about purchasing power plates. Besides, it's never about one person. There's always someone with a very specific situation. Makes sense, because we have 17 million individual people. That's why we're working with guidelines. So it is also important that we indicate what we all find generally accepted in relation to the expendable income of someone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u241	In conclusion. We're talking about a group, not an individual. We're talking about AOWs who are no longer allowed to live at home but have to go to a residential care center. They're too good for the nursing home. That is a group of people who are very short in the Netherlands. I would like specific attention to be paid to them, including this Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u242	This is a call to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u243	I have a question about the answer we received in writing. The question was about the right commitment to avoid overdrafting to keep vulnerable consumers out of debt. It is a good thing that the Secretary of State is working with the Minister of Finance to encourage providers of mailing-house credits to catch up. But does the Secretary of State agree with me that, above all, people should be prevented from getting into debt? How can the Secretary of State address these companies, e.g. webshops, on their corporate social responsibility? There should be no delays at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u244	I think it is a good point anyway, because if your business model is based on making a profit over the backs of vulnerable people, then I think it is a good thing. Maybe I can see if there's any code yet. Perhaps there is a group that represents these companies, because there will also be companies that handle them very nicely. I'll see if we can pick up this theme in a conversation. I will come back to that in second place.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u245	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u246	Mr. Chairman. I'm going to the last block, the block about child care. The cabinet considers child care to be an important tool for combining work and care for young children, but childcare is also important to support and promote the development of young children. In reply to Mr Renkema's question, what I think of his proposal to make childcare a public provision, I would like to say that the current system is, to a large extent, working very well. We also see this because more and more parents opt for childcare. Research shows that the quality of Dutch childcare is stable and good, but the current system certainly also has shortcomings. For the future, the cabinet is currently looking at the system of allowances, at the division between work and care, and at part-time work. That's what we do in interdepartmental policy investigations. Those studies look at this widely. As far as I am concerned, the medium-term outlook and potential changes in the system are also taken into account. Once these inter-departmental policy investigations have been completed, I will give my views on childcare, as I have also indicated following an earlier motion by your colleague Mr Westerveld. I shall go into what is good about the current system, what can be better and what is possible to overcome the shortcomings. I heard several MPs yesterday say there are no taboos. Well, I hear that very well. I also like discussions without taboos, so I am happy to take that starting point. Mr. Chairman. I also mentioned the accessibility of childcare. That is an important point. To this end, the childcare allowance has also been structurally increased by 248 million euros from 2019. With reference to the childcare allowance, I come to Mr Jasper van Dijk's question. He asked how I look at what he describes as "the child care allowance debacle at the Tax Office." I get that qualification. Mistakes have been made in stopping the childcare allowance in the CAF 11 case. This has taken its toll on the parents involved, financially and certainly emotionally. There's been a shortage of parents. My colleague from Finance is now working hard to rectify this where possible. The Donner Committee's opinion helps in this. The research results of the Donner Committee all show us a mirror. This applies to the Tax Office, the Council of State, the Ministry of Finance, but also to myself and my ministry. My view is that, in the period when the fraud debate dominated, there has been insufficient attention to human standards. That is why I am working with my colleague on a more proportionate approach to the definition and recovery of childcare allowances. I take this into account in connection with the recent statement by the Council of State on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u247	That was child care?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u248	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u249	Last question, Mr Renkema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u250	Thank you for the response given by the Secretary of State to our question as to whether it could not be a public provision. Many parents are indeed able to find their way to childcare, but in particular parents with lower incomes are hesitant because of the high costs, but also because of the childcare allowance, which again places a great deal of administrative burden. Do I understand correctly that the Secretary of State says that she wants to explore the bonuses in the ibo, including scenarios in which we can organise things differently and more easily?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u251	Two things. I would simply like to say that the current sector is, of course, also full of entrepreneurs who offer good care with heart and soul. I really want to underline that, although I certainly recognize the underlying idea from the debates and from the efforts of Mr Renkema and his party. Improvement proposals on the childcare allowance are under way. Of course, the interdepartmental policy research plays a role in this, but I am looking with my colleague, the Secretary of State for Finance, at what we can already do. So, in concrete terms, if you have to repay childcare allowance now because you cannot justify some of your own contribution, you have to repay everything. We are looking at how we can shape it so that you only have to repay part of that own contribution. This is, I think, a significant improvement. Interdepartmental policy or not, we take this improvement in hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u252	Mr. Jasper van Dijk, your last question, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u253	Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u254	Really.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u255	I can't believe it. Quite the timing, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u256	Well!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u257	The Secretary of State is ready, too. Here it comes. The question is about a more specific point, which is linked to the childcare allowance. Some people are not entitled to child care allowance for medical reasons, but then there is the opportunity for municipalities to give a concession if there is a socio-medical indication. It's just not very clear how municipalities do that. The question is whether the Secretary of State is prepared to investigate how municipalities deal with the so-called social-medical indication.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u258	We have had a number of exchanges of views on this issue lately. In any case, I am pleased that we can arrange for those who have an indication in the Wlz to be able to make use of childcare allowance. That is also the question for people who spend their days under the Wmo. I have always said of them that they can go to the municipalities. But I am getting some signals, including through Mr Jasper van Dijk's colleagues, that this is not going well everywhere. So I'd like to see how municipalities deal with that. I'm willing to do that investigation. I can certainly make that commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u259	Good to hear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u260	When the Secretary of State is finished, I still have a question to ask her about the staffing in childcare, the shortages that there are and the fact that there are lists of who can work. The Secretary of State has answered questions from our group. It stated that this was agreed in collective bargaining and that it did not enter into it. I understand that, too. However, it is a pity that there is a tight spot that may not be necessary. We can take a step towards addressing the shortage of childcare staff and send a signal. Is the Secretary of State prepared to send the message to the polder to take another look at that list and not to set unnecessary thresholds for, for example, maternity aid?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u261	I am always very reluctant to enter into the dialogue between the social partners, but what I can do, for example, is to reflect on what has been exchanged here in this debate. I'm really pretty steady in this kind of thing, but it's never gonna hurt to bring to the attention of the public what's changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u262	Good. We'll forward the footage.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u263	Okay. Then Mr. Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u264	Let me get this straight, we're all at the end of the Secretary of State's first-term contribution. Right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u265	You got that right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u266	Well, then I've got one thing I'd like to go upstairs. Indeed, I have received a written answer to my question on how we deal with the income release from the Participation Act. We have already had two exchanges of views on this, but I do not think we fully understand each other. It says: The law regulates 15% of income per month; more than €135 can be released. The fact that I asked that question at the time at the Wajong had to do with the fact that Wajongers will be able to deal with a sharp fall in income and then become more dependent on it. My question was: how was that substantiated? However, I have received an answer to this: it is a balance between, on the one hand, the incentive to accept part-time work from the assistance and, on the other hand, the incentive to generate a slightly higher income and, on the other hand, to keep as much as possible in line with the existing system of standards and the other release of labour income from the assistance. You're starting to drop out, Mr. Chairman, but so am I.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u267	Well, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u268	I do not understand this very much and I do not say at all that the standard we have now is wrong or wrong, but if this is the basis, then I think:...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u269	Then you're gonna drop out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u270	...tell that to one of those Wajangers who will soon depend on it. So my question is, what is the real basis? Regardless of whether it's right or wrong, I can't make a damn thing out of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u271	I just need to know if we're talking about the Participation Act or the Wajong.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u272	We're talking about the Participation Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u273	What are you quoting, Mr. Stoffer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u274	I quote from the written answers I received somewhere between yesterday and today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u275	What page? Then maybe the Secretary of State can watch.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u276	It's page 44 of 52.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u277	I got it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u278	Oh, fine. So you don't have to read it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u279	It's about the Participation Act, but in the light of the Wajong. In de Wajong this exemption is immediately being dealt with in order to come up with a piece of supplement, so it may be rather complicated. I think it's complicated, but I'm thinking, how do you tell a Wajong man like that? I just can't explain it and if I can't, maybe a lot of other people can't either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u280	I would like to propose the following, because earlier in this Chamber, in an analytical case, the quarter did not go entirely in the right direction either. I hesitate to say that, and I suggest I pick this up and come back to it in the second term. I agree with Mr Stoffer that you need to be able to justify why something is the norm, even if it is normal law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u281	Well, that makes me pretty happy, so I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u282	That's good to hear. Mr Van Weyenberg's final question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u283	That's a good count. I have a question and I think the Secretary of State needs a lot of time for the answer, but that is allowed in the second term. I'm telling you now, because that'll give her some time. There was a request from Lieke Marsman on the social media yesterday. I dare say that name, because it was on Twitter. She posted a message about a deadly friend of hers, where all of them ended up with the Participation Act, in a terminal phase. Then there's not much support from the family, because then you'll get in trouble. If you're gonna live somewhere for a while, you're living together. I drew two conclusions from that. The first is that there has been contact with the party department where the person concerned lives, and I will not mention it here. I ask the Secretary of State to deal with two things in the second term. Do municipalities have enough insight into the scope they have for customization, for example through Article 18 of the Participation Act on the Cost Sharing Standard? Or is there still a bottleneck here and we need to make more room? These are examples where the human measure is perceived as gone. I think we agree on this from the left to the right. Would the Secretary of State wish to comment on that in the second term? I don't want to rob her with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u284	That's good. I see the Secretary of State is nodding yes. She'll come back to that. I saw from the non-verbal attitude of the Members of Parliament that they all agree with Mr Van Weyenberg. Thank you. Then we have come to the end of the first term on the part of the government. I'm suspending the meeting until 8:35 p.m., so an hour.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u285	We will continue with the discussion of the Social Affairs and Employment budget. We have arrived at the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr De Jong on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u286	Mr President, thank you very much. As I ended my speech yesterday, that is how I start today: I think the Millions' Note and the Social Affairs and Employment budget are really a missed opportunity to improve people's purchasing power, to finally take care of it, in years of economic prosperity and economic growth, that people will see prosperity and growth in their pockets. That didn't happen. Every time we saw that the purchasing power promises were not fulfilled and they were already very low. If you also see that the promise of purchasing power, which was already low, does not come true every year; if you see, last year and the year before, that half of the people have fallen behind, that is not to be explained. If you then also see that next year for 600,000 people there is a threat of pension reductions for 600,000 people and that for the following year millions of other people are still threatening pension reductions, then I think it is a missed chance that this minister has not done anything about it during this budget treatment. What has not been done at all is the fact that we have to protect the welfare state, that we cannot accept that we see large groups of non-Western immigrants receiving EUR 3 billion a year of assistance. That's something you shouldn't want as a society and not as a politics, but it happens every year. Every year I bring it forward and nothing happens. Mr. Chairman. On that subject, I have three motions for resolutions. I'll start with the first one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the disproportionate pressure on Dutch social security by non-Western immigrants in particular is jeopardising the sustainability of our welfare state;]] [[Whereas our welfare state must be protected and preserved for the future;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that immigrants are entitled to receive Dutch social security benefits only after having lived and worked in the Netherlands for 10 years and have not committed any criminal offences,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Jong. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XV-29]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u287	Mr. Chairman. Next move. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[points out that the Netherlands is not an immigration country;]] [[calls on the Government to protect the welfare state and therefore close the Dutch borders to all asylum seekers and to all immigrants from Islamic countries,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Jong. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XV-30]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u288	Mr. Chairman. The export of benefits is also incredibly bad. There is an enormous amount of fraud in this area. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to maintain, as a matter of urgency, maximum benefit fraud with, for example, hidden possessions abroad and also to stop exporting benefits (except the AOW) abroad and to amend or terminate any treaties that prevent it,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Jong. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XV-31]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u289	Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u290	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr De Graaf, also on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u291	It says here "three minutes," Mr. Chairman, but that's all there is to add up to six or seven, isn't it? Right? I've got a minute left of BuHa-OS and stuff. Okay, Mr President, I will look back briefly at this debate and yet again at last week's legislative consultation, in which I told you about the problems in the neighbourhoods of large and medium-sized cities and more and more villages. I'm gonna take Gorinchem or Gorkum, you can have both, right? As an example because of the terrible event there. Fine, at least I get permission from the SP. I assume that she will be able to show this in the vote on the motions for resolutions next Tuesday, but that will of course come soon. And I told him the Minister doesn't like to talk about these issues. Just now, the Minister has tried to answer or pretend to answer a number of questions about Islamization, but he does not go beyond: the PVV is throwing people into one pile again, or all at one group. Then I think, if you live in Gorinchem, reality is the other way around. That's where the whole group throws themselves on one person. That is the reality that people have to deal with, and it does not want to do so with these minister countries. I don't want to. As every football club has a bad trainer, we already have some bad ministers in a row on this subject. The previous minister wanted to set up an ideological tree about it, but he does not even want to do so. But you will indeed live in Gorinchem. And then there's a minister who deals with integration issues and says, "Oh, it's awesome." Find out for yourself; you can't hear from us and figure it out. Mr. Chairman. That's why I have four motions. One about Gorinchem and some other about Islamization, and about hawala banking. Fortunately, the Minister has already given a part of a commitment on this, but I would also like to ask the Chamber for a ruling on this. Maybe in the second term I can fight the Minister nicely on that. Mr. Chairman. I shall now move on to the motions for resolutions, because the situation in the country is already serious enough. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Gorinchem, like many other towns and villages of the Netherlands, is plagued by racist group violence by most immigrants against native young people;]] [[Considering that this is unacceptable and that the ethnic group must be treated in such a way as to reclaim our streets, neighbourhoods, villages and cities on this scum;]] [[noting that the government is now reluctant and incompetent to tackle this problem and abandon our own people desperately;]] [[expresses the need to use all the necessary means to combat this racist ethnic violence, including brutal police action using all necessary violence, high custodial sentences, denaturalisation and expulsion of the perpetrators and their families if they are minors, restraining them, restraining them, banning them, prohibiting them from working together, and, if necessary, calling for the help of the armed forces to clean up and restore safety in the streets,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members De Graaf and Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XV-32]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u292	That was also the longest motion. I'm making them shorter and shorter, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in Germany a whole system of shadow banking, also called hawalabanking, has been wound up;]] [[Whereas hawala banking and Islamic banking can be used for mosque financing and jihad financing;]] [[Whereas this also takes place in the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the government to take more action against hawala banking and Islamic banking,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XV-33]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u293	Mr. Chairman. Because your fingers stick in your ears and shout very loudly, does not work against the writings and principles of the ideology of Islam, I submit the next motion, also together with my colleague Wilders. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[taking note of the contents and regulations of Koran, Sira and Hadith;]] [[noting the contents of the Sharia;]] [[noting the death penalty on exit from Islam;]] [[calls on the government to acknowledge Islam for what it is, namely a violent totalitarian ideology full of Jew hatred, misogyny, lhbt-hate, hatred of anyone who is not Islamic, full of jihad, focused on subjecting non-Islamic societies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members De Graaf and Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XV-34]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u294	Mr. Chairman. Since it is the greatest threat to our society, I submit this last and also shortest motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to de-islamize the Netherlands, starting with the dismantling of Islamic infrastructure such as mosques, Islamic schools and organisations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members De Graaf and Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XV-35]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u295	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yesterday I started with the question of whether everyone wanted to think about his grandfather and his grandfather's profession. In fact, I had hoped that both the Minister and the Secretary of State would shine a little light on that. Maybe they'll do that later. Yesterday I didn't say much about integration, a bit because of the somewhat difficult feeling in my stomach that I got after the interruption debate between the PVV and DENK, but also because the PVV pretended to be the only ones fighting for integration. In my view, my colleague Mr Becker made very clear in the legislative consultation on integration what the VVD wants, including the questions and motions that we are tabling on mosque visits, on foreign funding and on mosque schools such as AlFirah, which we are also deeply concerned about. I myself submitted an own-initiative paper on earlier and clearer boundaries around problem youth in neighbourhoods. Mr Becker himself submitted an own-initiative paper on self-determination. You have also seen an amendment on this. This was tabled during the first term of the cabinet, to ensure that there is a budget for organisations that help fight against cultural oppression and honour-related violence. That is why we have tabled that amendment. Mr. Chairman. There are still a few questions to be answered in relation to the questions I asked yesterday, including those relating to the labour market. Thank you to the Minister for the commitments concerning part-time and part-time research. Thank you, too, for not avoiding the taboo once there is. I also hope that the Minister, like me, will see that part-time work really has to be part of the dynamic labour market perspective. I hope that is what we are moving towards in the debates we are having here. In addition, the word'seasonal work' has fallen a few times, but I was not entirely satisfied with the Minister's reply. He said: "On what we do with seasonal work and weather-related work," I would like to call it "we'll be back in the first quarter of 2020. But in the first quarter of 2020, the Labour Market Act is already in force in balance, so I would like to hear more specifically from the Minister what he wants with it. It also has a bit to do with the other thing I asked. We are just going to see things in the labour market from January onwards as a result of the Labour Market Act in balance. The Minister says that he certainly keeps his finger on the wrist, and I fully trust that, but I would like to get a more concrete feedback from that. The Minister mentioned a few times the date of 23 January 2020, which is now also in my agenda with an exclamation mark behind it, because then the opinion of the Borstlap Committee will be presented. But, yeah, that doesn't get us there yet. We are particularly curious about the reaction of the cabinet to that advice and the broad and open debate that we are going to have with each other. I would like to hear from the Minister how he sees the timeline after 23 January 2020, because we are going to have all these debates together. I also had a question. I would like the Minister, in his response to the opinion of the Borstlap Committee or at least in the wide open debate we are going to have on this, to take the Aartsen motion (35300-XIII, No. 25) on differentiation in SMEs and a number of aspects of the Work Code 2025, such as the transition fee and the preventive dismissal test. Will the Minister do that? Mr. Chairman. I also have four motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a significant shortage of labour in many sectors;]] [[Whereas hundreds of thousands of people on part-time contracts want to work more hours;]] [[Considers that too few part-time women are asked to work more hours and that their talents are therefore underutilised;]] [[calls on the Government to enable part-time workers' contractual hours to be increased for a certain period of time;]] [[calls on the government to encourage employers to offer extra hours to part-time workers to reduce the large labour shortages,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Commission is delivering its opinion on the Regulation of Work at the beginning of 2020;]] [[Considering that the Labour Market Act enters into force on 1 January 2020 and that it is desirable to see its practical impact in conjunction with the Committee's opinion;]] [[calls on the government to carry out a quickscan in the first quarter of 2020 in the form of, for example, a survey of the impact of the SAB and to involve its results in the follow-up to the Commission's Work Regulation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Tielen and Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XV-36]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Tielen and Mr Palland. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XV-37]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u296	Thank you for that opportunity. The motion mentions the first quarter of 2020, when the law was introduced. Can Mrs Tielen explain this a little more? I understand that we want to know this, but it seems like it's very soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u297	It is. Preferably you'd do it naturally on the basis of "I'm trying to find a Dutch word "real data" and real data. We probably won't get it until the second quarter of the CBS, but I'd just like to put in a gauge with employers and employees: do you see any changes? It is not intended to draw a heavy conclusion, but to get a first feeling of what that law is going to do in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u298	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u299	My next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government is developing a web module to provide legal certainty to clients in a workable way when hiring an independent contractor;]] [[Whereas certain smaller companies often have limited legal or HR expertise;]] [[calls on the Government to endeavour to provide legal certainty as far as possible on the contract relationship in the web module with as few questions as possible;]] [[invites the government to test through the SME test whether the final version is sufficiently usable for smaller companies before publishing it,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Tielen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XV-38]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u300	And teaches well. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that lifelong learning requires a cultural change;]] [[Whereas scope is needed for innovative lifelong learning initiatives;]] [[calls on the Government to identify how innovative initiatives can be integrated into existing lifelong learning support, identify bottlenecks and inform the Court in the spring,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Tielen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XV-39]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u301	I realize now that I would actually have liked to use the term "Long Learning." Mr. Chairman. I also have a question about it. I asked yesterday whether this type of initiative would also be studied in practice, in order to create a kind of cost-benefit analysis that could serve as a basis for future public-private partnerships. The Minister referred to a SunMw investigation, but that doesn't quite cover my question. That is why I ask him whether he would like to go into this further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u302	Thank you, Mrs Tielen. I now give the floor to Mr Wörsdörfer, also on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u303	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the directors for their reply, as well as the officials who had to work like crazy yesterday in order to provide us with all the answers last night. Thank you. Poverty and debt are often the start of many additional social costs in the areas of health, assistance, safety or youth assistance. That is why I stated in the first term that prevention is better than cure. Make sure people can prevent them from getting into debt. That's what it takes to get a grip on life and on the wallet. I think there are quite a few municipalities that can put a tooth into it, and I made that call yesterday. There are a number of specific points. Pay attention to entrepreneurs in debt. Make sure you provide a good service and don't let go of anyone who calls in. Because prevention in the eyes of the VVD is the most important weapon: focus on learning paths and contribute to people's ability to handle money. On two points, I would like to support and challenge the Secretary of State. As far as we are concerned, learning pathways should be dealt with directly if aid measures are to be implemented. At the point of debt restructuring, I see room. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Wsnp is focused on debt recovery and is successful in doing so, but is not aimed at removing its causes, and in the future at preventing debt;]] [[noting that little is known about the effective support during the Wsnp journey to stay out of debt after completion;]] [[considers that it is necessary for the effectiveness of the Wsnp not only to come out of debt but also to stay out of debt;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how participants in a Wsnp pathway can (can) be supported to learn how to use their accounting systems and, on the basis of good examples, to see whether there is a cost-benefit analysis for this support for municipalities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wörsdörfer and Mr Raemakers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XV-40]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u304	The motion was co-signed by Mr Raemakers of D66. That is how Mr Raemakers is present today. I wish him well, and I hope he'll be back in full-time next week. I have one more question, and it's about small businesses. I understand that the Secretary of State also sees that in municipalities cooperation between debt relief workers and the executives of the self-employed assistance decision can be even better. I would like to hear that and I would also like to know how the Secretary of State is working to remove the blind spot that some municipalities seem to have at that point. Mr. Chairman. In my earlier speech I also indicated that there are quite a few small entrepreneurs who want to do the right thing when it comes to collection. But they're still struggling with that. I would also like to see some extra effort there. So my second motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering, inter alia, that the comprehensive debt approach takes many steps to address debt issues in cooperation with municipalities, civil society organisations and business;]] [[noting that small companies are still relatively little involved, while they can play a major role in preventing and combating debt, both as entrepreneurs, creditors and employers, and are doing so more and more often;]] [[Whereas support for these entrepreneurs by the public authorities and inter-branch organisations is crucial to this process;]] [[calls on the government to engage with SMEs-Netherlands to see how entrepreneurs can best avoid debt to customers, properly collect debt and support workers in debt,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wörsdörfer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XV-41]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u305	Mr. Chairman. I was honoured to have been able to contribute to this budget debate. It's about things for vulnerable people. The VVD would like to contribute to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u306	Thank you, Mr. Wörsdörfer. I now give the floor to Mr Smeulders on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u307	Thank you very much, Mr President, and especially thank you to the leaders, but above all to their officials, who have worked hard over the last few days, and in my opinion, over the last few weeks, to ensure that this budgetary treatment is or becomes a success. I must say that I am quite happy with the answers given by the Minister in the first term. His introduction could simply be the introductory paragraph of the chapter on Social Affairs of the next government agreement as far as I am concerned. Only his passages about zzp spoke to us a little less, but I'm sure we'll be able to talk about that in the near future. I would like to make a few specific points. The first point concerns mourning leave. On this point, I think I can also speak on behalf of Mr Stoffer when I say that we are really pleased with Mr Koolmees' positive response to the manifesto that we wrote together and which we handed over yesterday. Mr Stoffer will shortly table a motion on our behalf in which we will confirm this once again and which will really make mourning leave attractive to more people. It's just so important, if you lose a loved one, to have enough time to think about it. One point we had a bit of resentment about with the cabinet was about labor and concern and the motion tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg of D66 and I last year. I understand the way in which the cabinet worked out the motion, but we did have a little bit of other intentions with it. That's why we've got a new motion, new round, new opportunities, in which we've written something more precise that we'd like to have. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that one in five workers provide care for their families;]] [[noting that only 5% of the family workers who provide long-term and/or regular care use short-term care leave and only 1% of long-term care leave;]] [[Whereas people at different stages of life have different needs for reconciling work and care;]] [[Whereas the Economic and Social Committee, in its Opinion "A working combination" and the Opinion "A leave after birth," recommended simplifying forms of leave because they were very complex in practice;]] [[calls on the Government to develop concrete variants to simplify and make more accessible the various forms of leave in order to promote their use, including the option of enlargement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Smeulders and Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XV-42]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u308	Then my second, and also final, motion. I'll file it with Mrs Palland of the CDA. This motion concerns the supervisory board of civil society organisations. To be honest, we find it rather strange that it is better regulated in business that employees have more influence over who is on such a supervisory board than in the public sector. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that it is important that supervisors have a substantive affinity with the sector and its employees;]] [[noting that in large companies the works council has the right to propose a third of the supervisory board for appointment;]] [[noting that this is not fully regulated by law for public sector supervisory boards;]] [[points out that public sector professionals should be able to nominate one third of their own supervisors;]] [[calls on the government to examine how this right can be secured for public sector supervisory boards, and to inform the Court before the summer of 2020]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Smeulders and Mr Palland. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XV-43]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u309	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, thanks to the directors for answering the questions and also thanks to their official support. Yesterday I paid a great deal of attention to the evaluation of the Participation Act. I think the core of my contribution was that we have to choose between two different human images. The human image that we may have to put behind us is that of the calculating citizen, the gay economist. You can influence them through sanctions, incentives and financial consequences. Perhaps we should get to a picture of the human being as someone who wants to be in relation to the other, who deserves to be trusted in advance and who is influenced by conversation and dialogue. This also calls for a totally different approach to social security. That is very necessary, see, for example, the case raised by Mr Van Weyenberg just before the suspension. Yesterday, the case got quite a lot of attention on the social media. It is a woman who is incurably ill, but is still being chased by social services, because she occasionally gets money from her parents to do shopping. The woman says: even more stressful than my illness is that I'm being hunted like this and have to answer for it. We really need to get rid of the way we work there. It is not enough to refer to customization and a hardness clause. The spirit of the law, the spirit of social security, must change. Please respond to this point by the Secretary of State. Then there's a more specific question. Is the Secretary of State prepared to include the exemption from the obligation of information in the law for distressing cases? I'm going to help her because I have a motion for that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the obligations of the Participation Act can be incredibly stressful, especially if you are incurably ill;]] [[noting that a person who is incurably ill may be exempted from obligations such as the obligation to apply for employment and the consideration, but not from the obligation to provide information;]] [[calls on the Government to give municipalities the opportunity to exempt people from this obligation of information, if there are urgent reasons for doing so, and to amend the Participation Act in this respect,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Renkema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XV-44]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u310	Then I have a few more motions, including one on child care. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that both the Donner Commission, the ibo surcharges and the National Ombudsman confirm that the current system of childcare allowances leads to enormous bureaucracy and major problems for parents;]] [[Whereas free childcare reduces a large part of the bureaucracy and prevents parents from receiving a substantial post-tax;]] [[Whereas the WRR has shown that young children who have the right skills for primary school are more successful in their education careers and have a better starting position to continue learning;]] [[Whereas it also contributes to the employment rate of parents and the promotion of equal opportunities;]] [[calls on the Government to identify options for alternatives to the childcare allowance, including the provision of free childcare for all parents;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Renkema, Mr Westerveld and Mr Van Meenen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XV-45]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u311	Then I have a motion on the work desk. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a large group of people do not have the means, network or assertiveness to train or move to another profession;]] [[noting that even if people receive benefits, this aid is very fragmented;]] [[believes that all people should receive the same appropriate support on their way to work;]] [[calls on the government to set up pilots in a number of labour market regions with a work desk where everyone can ask questions about work,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Renkema and Mr Smeulders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XV-46]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u312	Then the next motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u313	Another one?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u314	Yeah, there's gonna be two more. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the placement of people in shelter is too slow and insufficient people with a distance from the labour market are entering employment;]] [[noting that SW companies traditionally have expertise in the field of wage measurement and the supervision and posting of people with disabilities;]] [[noting that several motions have been adopted to maintain this expertise, but that, despite this, expertise is in danger of being lost in certain regions;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that at least one social development company remains in position in each labour market region in order to contribute to an inclusive labour market,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Renkema, Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Van Brenk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XV-47]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u315	My final motion concerns the conclusions of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the SCP concludes that the imposition of sanctions and obligations is not activating;]] [[calls on the Government to support municipalities by granting them local policy freedom and providing them with sufficient resources so that they can talk to everyone on welfare benefits to see what these people need to be able to participate;]] [[calls on the Government not to introduce any mandatory compensation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Renkema, Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XV-48]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u316	Thank you, Mr President. Especially for Mrs. Tielen: my one grandfather was a Latin and Greek teacher at a high school, and my other grandfather was a contractor. I would like to thank the directors for their reply and also the way in which this is done. That also makes it fun, I think, so together here in this room. Thanks also to the official support for the hard work. I have three further motions for resolutions, also because the written reply still leaves a point. I do not think we can settle for that yet and we cannot leave it at that. That is why I have a motion to give a follow-up to that. I'll start by reading my motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the pressure on families is high due, among other things, to rising employment rates and the pressure of the combination of care and work;]] [[noting that little research has been carried out on this subject;]] [[Whereas a broad view of families is needed to know what they are up against and what they need to achieve a good balance between care and work;]] [[Whereas such a broad view can help to implement targeted policies to support families;]] [[Calls on the Government, in cooperation with interested parties, to carry out, on the basis of the results of the part-time ibo, a study of the opportunities to address bottlenecks experienced by families, including two- and one-parent families, co-parent families and composite families;]] [[invites the Government to report to the Court on this in the first half of 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a group of self-employed persons who, as a result of illness, cannot financially bridge the AOW gap and have not been able to make provision for it by the accelerated increase in the AOW;]] [[Whereas there are signs that the coincidence of illness and the accelerated increase in the age of the AOW are causing problems for the self-employed;]] [[noting that the SEO study shows that around 80% of the 8,100 AOV insurers have an AOW gap, and there is currently no solution for these people;]] [[calls on the Government to consider in detail how self-employed people unable to prepare themselves for the increase in the age of AOW can be financially supported;]] [[invites the Government to inform the Chamber of this matter before 1 May 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Palland, Mr Postma and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XV-49]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Palland and Mr Van Kent. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XV-50]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u317	My final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government intends to achieve a breakthrough in the field of lifelong development and a positive and strong learning culture;]] [[Considering that under the Inter-Governmental Programme, the Northern Education Alliance has been designated as a testing ground for the task of regional economy as an accelerator;]] [[Whereas the Northern Alliance of Schools faces a complexity of lifelong development arrangements and needs scope in which the same basic rules apply;]] [[calls on the Government to explore ways to better facilitate regions in pooling available budgets for the regions, with the task at the centre,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Palland and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XV-51]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u318	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u319	Thank you, Mrs Palland. I now give the floor to Mr Peters on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u320	Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you to the directors for answering the questions. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State. An answer with a warm heart and a common sense does a man good. Because it's clear: people don't kick you out of their problems, they help you, at least most of the time. When it comes to debt and poverty, we are a little less good at it. There are a lot of people, and I have also drawn attention to them in my first term, who sigh because they can't pay, although they often want to. The government keeps building up debts, and I don't think that's possible. I think there's another way. It doesn't have to be that complicated. If we don't collect those irrecoverable increases, it'll cost money on paper, but I don't think in the real world. Of course, I understand that there are hooks and eyes on this simple proposal, but I think it starts with curiosity and with the clear insight that cannot pay really anything but will not pay. I therefore call for a clear examination of the conditions under which government-created and irrecoverable increases could be waived. Hence the next motion, tabled on behalf of my colleague Jasper van Dijk. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government is the largest creditor and that these debts are further increased by an accumulation of fines;]] [[noting that this accumulation of fines may have made these debts so high after a few years that they are in fact irrecoverable;]] [[Considers that debtors should be able to make use of a "exception year" in which all increases created and irrecoverable by the government are cancelled;]] [[Calls on the Government to consider how an exception year could be introduced and to report to the Court in the first half of 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Peters and Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XV-52]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u321	Then there is my second point. What I actually draw attention to every time is the number of homeless people. Unfortunately, that does not decrease in our country, but rather increases. Although I am going to draw attention to this in the forthcoming VAO on poverty and debt policy, I also have a tendency to table a motion to ensure that there is a clear and measurable goal for reducing the number of homeless. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the number of homeless has increased significantly in recent years;]] [[also noted that homelessness increases the risk of long-term poverty and exclusion;]] [[Considers that every effort must be made to combat homelessness;]] [[calls on the government to use measurable targets for the reduction of homeless and long-term poverty in the fight against poverty and debt,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Peters and Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XV-53]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u322	Finally, Mr President. In the first period we talked about the number of people, such as young adults, who do not have a home and are actually a couch surfer, going from home to home, and where that comes from. I also noted that we know little or nothing about the effects of the cost-sharing standard, for example. We do know that the number of young adults who do not have a permanent residence or residence has increased in recent years, and it could be that this cost sharing standard has an impact on this. We don't know that. We understand why it has been introduced, but we are genuinely curious about its final effects. That's why I'd like to file the next motion, along with Jasper van Dijk. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that since the introduction of the cost sharing standard in 2015, the number of homeless people has increased more than before;]] [[Whereas it is unclear whether this growth is related to the introduction of the cost sharing standard;]] [[whereas both the social and financial consequences of the cost sharing standard have not yet been assessed;]] [[calls on the Government to examine further the effects of the cost sharing standard and to send the results of this survey to the Chamber before the summer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Peters and Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XV-54]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u323	It's about the intention of this. Is it therefore Mr Peters' intention that this study should include the number of elderly people remaining in their entire single-family home and not moving in with their children because of this cost-sharing standard? Is that part of this investigation, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u324	We understand very well why this cost sharing standard has been introduced. I get the idea, but I don't know anything about the consequences in the execution. What's it doing? I'll let you make that as broad as you can. For example, I would like to know what the effect is on young adults, on the elderly. How does it work? I just want an evaluation of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u325	Thank you, Mr. Peters. I now give the floor to Mr Van Kent on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u326	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the debate, it has already been a lot about the minimum wage from 18 years of age instead of 21 years of age as it is now. I would like to table the next motion on this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that tens of thousands of young adults aged 18 to 21 are still paid the minimum youth wage;]] [[having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee (hereinafter referred to as "the Committee') of the European Parliament and of the Council (hereinafter referred to as "the Committee'),]] [[Whereas youth organisations, trade unions and political parties have signed the manifesto "Multiple pay, adult work";]] [[Whereas a step-by-step reduction in unintended negative effects on participation and youth unemployment can be better monitored;]] [[calls on the Government to ask the SER Youth Platform to explore the impact of the right to the full minimum wage for each working person aged 18 and over, to include the evaluations of the two steps taken previously, and to inform the Court of Justice of this before the summer recess 2020 at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Kent, Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mr Smeulders, Mr Van Brenk, Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Bruins.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XV-55]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u327	I offered this Minister the manifesto mentioned in the motion. I have also made two further proposals on reducing the flexible skin and compensating for the damage caused by flex workers due to their uncertainty. That's what the next motion is about. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that, in anticipation of the final report, the Borstlap Committee expressed concerns about the flexibilisation that had gone through;]] [[noting that there are more than 2 million workers in the Netherlands with an uncertain contract and more than 1 million employees with an uncertain income;]] [[Whereas, on average, these workers earn less and/or are at greater risk of becoming unemployed;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how to reduce the flexibility of the Dutch labour market, for example by compensating workers with uncertain incomes for this, and to involve this research in the policy response to the final report of the Borstlap Commission,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Kent, Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mr Van Brenk and Mr Smeulders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XV-56]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u328	About the concerns of the Borstlap committee about the fluctuating flexibility is written in this morning's Algemeen Dagblad. As mentioned earlier, we asked Maurice de Hond to look at the Dutch' thinking about what you might call the pocket filling in the pension sector last weekend. I said that it was striking that a very large part of the VVD's and CDA's supporters do not like it. 81% and 87% of those who are eligible would like to see the beaming standard applied to the pension sector. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that 85% of the Dutch consider that pension directors and pension administrators should be limited to a maximum of the beaming standard;]] [[calls on the Government to bring directors of pension funds and pension administrators under the Standards Act,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Kent, Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Smeulders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XV-57]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u329	In this motion we are talking about 85% of the Dutch. That's the average percentage in Maurice the Dog's poll. Furthermore, a motion has just been tabled by Mrs Palland around the gap that people have because insurance stops at 65 years while the AOW does not start until later. Last year, when we discussed the budget, we drew attention to this. An investigation was carried out at the time. Now we're gonna take another step. We want to see how this problem can be solved for the thousands of people involved. Finally, I assume that this Minister intends and intends to resolve very quickly the problems that exist in the Netherlands with the self-employed, and that this Minister will therefore withdraw the legislative proposal as it has now gone into consultation, which is, of course, simply part of the submission of a law, and will come forward with proposals that can be supported. And as you know, Mr President, we like to think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u330	Thank you, Mr. Van Kent. I now give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u331	Mr. Chairman. In my first term, I criticised the policy. I'll use my second term for some compliments. I believe that the Secretary of State is taking really good steps in the area of social employment. I also feel like we're getting together; that's what she said herself. I am very curious about the proposals that are coming. On top of that, I myself am working on a bill for a good national coverage network of SW facilities. To be continued. I have tabled two fine motions together with Mr Peters and a motion with GroenLinks on the consideration. I still have the question to the Minister for Social Affairs whether he is going shopping with us. He gives a nice answer in the written answer, but that actually says: speaking to people is always good. Is that a yes or a no? I'd like another clear answer to that. Mr. Chairman. I've only got two motions left. Well, that's a good thing to say, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u332	Yes, very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u333	I'm glad you're so impressed. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas training is in many cases the best way to work;]] [[Whereas municipal social services regularly refuse training requests and offer standard packages for (re) training only to a limited extent;]] [[calls on the Government to promote (re) training in assistance by drawing up a plan with the social partners;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XV-58]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u334	Then there's the second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that women should be given the same opportunities as men, but that this is not yet the case in the labour market;]] [[Whereas it is important to promote equality of opportunity for women in top positions, but certainly also for all other women who can and want to work;]] [[Considers that this can be achieved by introducing, in line with the ESC's opinion on Diversity at the summit, an integrated system of work and care provision with adequate parental leave, good and accessible child services and more secure jobs of a decent size;]] [[calls on the Government to develop a gender equality approach involving the above points,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XV-59]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u335	Then I have 52 seconds left, so I'd like to talk about... No, I won't tire you out. Thank you very much. See you next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u336	Well, I'll see you on Tuesday. Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Weyenberg on behalf of D66. Mr Van Dijk refers to the next budget. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u337	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the directors for the answer and indeed to all the staff of the Ministry who contributed to the fact that this was again a smooth and ongoing budget treatment. I assume there was another kind of Kennedy Space Center set up somewhere in the department. It's always special nights, I remember from my own experience. Mr. Chairman. My group has also tabled a number of motions on: research into wider leave arrangements; what can we do to support more hours of work; a study on youth pay; and how we can do it properly and in steps; childcare; dealing with debt; with the VVD; and improving the position of women in the labour market, with Mr Jasper van Dijk. I've got four more of my own. The first one is about debt. We come to the VAO to talk about debt. Following on from the Council's vision paper for the case law on speeding up accession to the Debt Remodelling Act, I have the next motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that debtors are currently dependent on help from municipalities and the willingness of creditors to reach a friendly agreement;]] [[Whereas the Council has argued in favour of the case-law that, after six months, either a forced agreement with creditors or access to the Wsnp should be possible;]] [[Calls on the Government to consider how, in line with the Council's case law opinion, faster admission to the Wsnp can be achieved and to inform the Court of Justice of this before the summer of 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Raemakers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XV-60]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u338	I look forward to drafting the law on tackling labour market discrimination and also on reporting obligations. The Secretary of State has put forward a proposal for this. I am going to look critically at that, but I intend to make something that really works to take a step forward in tackling labour market discrimination. As far as pensions are concerned, the effect will be for the summer. Then, of course, there's thezzp-law. I look forward to the debates already. They're partly ideological, too, and that's fun. They're also technical, because it has to work. My group wants to ensure that genuine self-employed people can undertake and continue to undertake and not fall back into the old DBA Act. I have three more motions on things that I have specifically called attention to. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the competitive clause is currently regularly used in employment contracts;]] [[Whereas the possibilities for including a competitive contract clause in contracts of employment are very broad internationally and thus hamper labour mobility;]] [[Whereas the definition of "heavy business or service interest" in the use of a competitive clause in fixed-term contracts is not clear;]] [[Whereas, in practice, it is for the employee to demonstrate that the competitive obligation is not actually valid or not reasonable;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how the use of the competitive clause can be limited to what is strictly necessary, taking the following options into account:]] [[excluding the competitive obligation in respect of fixed-term contracts;]] [[limiting the maximum duration and geographical scope of the competitive obligation in the case of contracts for an indefinite period;]] [[and a minimum remuneration for the competitive obligation in the case of contracts for an indefinite period,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Gijs van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XV-61]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u339	The Minister has just promised to do this, but it doesn't matter, because you can make a motion to uphold the commitment. I would like to hear from Mr Van Weyenberg that taking account of the position of these small innovative entrepreneurs is also part of that. It may be very important for them to be able to include a competitive clause.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u340	Thank you for this interruption, because it gives me the opportunity to say something about this. I have put three very specific forms that I want selected in motion. That is also the reason for tabling a motion, so that these three variants are examined. You may have heard that we have written'must be'. So it does not say 'no competitive clause' but 'limited to those situations where it is necessary'. Mr Wörsdörfer has rightly drawn attention to this. That's the balance. I think this is a tightening-up and I believe he agrees with me. Of course, you can't run off with your boss's business secrets and then work with the competitor around the corner.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u341	Before you proceed, a motion is not meant to perpetuate standing policy, I say in between.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u342	It isn't, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u343	No. "Support policy," I hear the Minister say. That's just "dissuade." That's the assessment framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u344	For the record, because then I may have misread myself. What I meant to say was that this motion actually lays down what the Minister had already promised. That was the comment I made.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u345	Yeah, exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u346	We are, of course, not in favour of motions to consolidate policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u347	No, exactly. Then we'll agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u348	It is therefore also good to formulate very precisely the questions that you ask of rulers, seven years of chamber experience tells me, despite all the confidence I have in both regiments. I'll be on my next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Minister is discussing the promotion of more hours of work with the social partners;]] [[Whereas the ibo will present part-time policy options for promoting more hours of work from the government;]] [[Whereas the social partners themselves can agree in collective agreements on the promotion of more hours;]] [[Whereas it is not legally sustainable to reward structurally different people working part-time and full-time;]] [[calls on the Government to provide concrete options for promoting more hours of work in collective agreements, such as multi-work bonuses and full-time bonuses,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Tielen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XV-62]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u349	Mr. Chairman. The Borstlap Committee was a bit with us, after all, for this whole budget debate. This is characterised by far more fundamental thinking about the future of the labour market and the recognition that different forms of work are becoming less and less easy to cut with scissors. That's what you saw in the debate on thezzp law. People want to be able to work their own way. When that advice comes, it is important that we give our hands and feet to it quickly, so that we can also have decision-making on it, at least in the formation and perhaps even earlier. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the opinion of the Commission on the regulation of work is expected on 1 February;]] [[Whereas the task of the broad societal review does not take into account the scope of the Commission's Regulation of Work;]] [[calls on the Government to develop various technical policy variants to further elaborate the opinion of the Commission on the Regulation of Work in order to clarify possible policy options and to offer them to the Chamber before the summer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Palland. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XV-63]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u350	I would like to thank my fellow Members for this fine, cooperative and, as far as I am concerned, good substantive consideration of the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u351	Thank you, Mr. Van Weyenberg. I now give the floor to Mr Gijs van Dijk on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u352	Thank you, Mr President. I started my first term about the alienation people are experiencing right now. This is a form of alienation because they no longer feel as an employee as part of a company, but as a radar in the production process. We've seen that before. There's a lot written about it, too. What was then, even in revolutions we have experienced, the medicine? Those were employers who began to realize: if we continue like this and if we do not take that responsibility for our people, we will lose or burn those people, and that is also very detrimental to us. So on the one hand, you need employers who take on their responsibilities and actually act like a social entrepreneur. There are already a lot of good entrepreneurs and good companies in the Netherlands, but as far as the Labour Party is concerned, the norm for the coming years is that you are a social entrepreneur and that you are therefore also an explicit part of the neighbourhood and society. We can ask them the same thing. And we can also reward the companies that choose to do so. That's part of the solution. Part two of the solution is an active government that doesn't let basic security that people need to jump disappear. I always call that the land underneath people's feet. It also allows you to look forward again. We now see, particularly in the younger generations, that they all experience and also have uncertainties. As a government and as a policy, we must try to provide security for people in an uncertain world, so that they can also deal with an uncertain world. We cannot predict the future and we may not be able to make the future more secure, but we can do something about certain basic needs, for example in the areas of housing or social security. We need these fundamental questions, which are raised by the Borstlap Committee, among other things. In the end, we also need to come up with new assurances. The Labour Party will make proposals and work hard on this in the coming years. Mr. Chairman. In the debate, we called for attention to be paid to the non-compete clause. D66 has tabled a motion for a resolution on this matter. We co-signed it. We have called for attention to be paid to youth wages. In particular, the SP has pulled hard on this. We're all in on that. It is really important to create justice for all adults in the Netherlands. We have, I think, quite an ideological debate on the legislation ofzzp. I am very curious to see how flexible the Minister will be in this debate. That will be necessary. If it stays the way it is, it won't work. We can tell by the reactions. But I therefore think that politics is not going to succeed. We'll see how the minister's going to behave in that regard. Mr. Chairman. Before I go to my two motions, one more special word to the Secretary of State. I think she spoke out of her heart today. I appreciate that very much. There has been a lot of hassle last week about the various reports about whether or not there is any consideration. The Secretary of State and I collide sometimes when it comes to a number of cases, but not about this. I would like to express my appreciation for that. Mr. Chairman. Finally, my motions. The first motion concerns the social development companies, which the Secretary of State really creates room for. We appreciate that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the SCP clearly shows that there is a need for improvement in the Participation Act;]] [[whereas if you have a disability, you need an extra support;]] [[noting that the Economic and Social Council has previously carried out a review of social infrastructure;]] [[calls on the Government to update the ESC's assessment of social infrastructure,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Gijs van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XV-64]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u353	I would like to conclude with a point that I make almost every debate. It's about children in poverty. I have expressed my concern that one in nine children in the Netherlands still have to grow up in poverty. Additional funds have been earmarked for this for a few years now, but they have not always been properly applied. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the government makes available 100 million per year to combat child poverty;]] [[Whereas it is unclear whether municipalities are actually spending these funds to combat child poverty;]] [[calls on the government to apply the principle of "pass or explain" and to require municipalities to justify how the use of these funds contributes to combating child poverty,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XV-65]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u354	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u355	Thank you, Mr. Gijs van Dijk. I now give the floor to Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u356	Mr. Chairman. This was the last budget debate this year. We have all determined here how EUR 305.5 billion of taxpayers' money will be distributed next year. Let us never forget that this money is raised by citizens and businesses and that it is their money. We have to deal with that very carefully. I would like to thank the Secretary of State and the Minister for their answers. I would like to thank the official support, the Registry and our unsavory staff. Thank you for all your help and support. I have two motions, which I would like to call on the government to take further steps. I have one in the area of child poverty and one in the area of people with disabilities and distance from the labour market. The first motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that every child should be able to participate fully in society;]] [[Whereas one in nine children is still growing up in poverty;]] [[Whereas schools can play an important role in identifying poverty and the government is developing a programme for this purpose;]] [[Whereas the Youth Education Fund has important experience in identifying and combating child poverty;]] [[calls on the Government to give the Youth Education Fund a role in the programme,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bruins and Mr Gijs van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XV-66]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u357	Mr President, my second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the introduction of the Participation Act provided a temporary bonus of €3,000 per sheltered workplace in the period 2015-2020;]] [[noting that in recent years there has been an under-exhaustment of the resources reserved for the bonus scheme sheltered work;]] [[noting that, in the current situation, the surplus is distributed among all municipalities every spring, regardless of whether they have completed sheltered workplaces or not;]] [[Whereas it is fairer and more stimulating to reward municipalities which have actually done their best to achieve sheltered workplaces;]] [[calls on the Government to allocate in proportion to the municipalities that have actually completed sheltered workplaces the remaining amount of the bonus scheme sheltered work for the 2019 implementation year in 2020, instead of dividing the surplus among all municipalities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Bruins, Mr Nijkerken-de Haan, Mr Peters and Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XV-67]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u358	Finally, I would like to say that I hope that we will soon be able to welcome Mr Raemakers back to health again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u359	I hope so, too. Thank you, Mr. Bruins. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Brenn on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u360	Mr. Chairman. I have four motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas tens of thousands of AOW beneficiaries live unnecessarily below the minimum subsistence level because they do not make use of the income scheme which complements their incomplete AOW benefit to the minimum subsistence level;]] [[whereas about half of the potential beneficiaries (34,000 to 51,000 households) do not benefit from the AIO scheme;]] [[Furthermore, considering that potential rightholders cannot be identified and informed about their entitlement to benefit through limited data exchange between relevant bodies, such as the Social Insurance Bank (SVB), the Tax Administration and the UWV;]] [[calls on the Minister to clarify within three months how he is going to resolve the low use of supplementary income provision for older people,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the job coach enables people with disabilities to work in a regular position with a regular employer;]] [[Whereas recent research among Wajangers and WGAs shows that more than half of the people receiving job coaching continue to work or work after three years;]] [[Whereas earlier research by the SZW Inspection under Wajongers and the municipal target group of the Participation Act shows that the deployment of a job coach can contribute to sustainable work;]] [[Whereas job termination and job rotation occur regularly in the target group;]] [[Considering that the job coach in the UWV setting has no role to play around job termination;]] [[Furthermore, considering that early signs of job termination, job rotation, possible broadening of job coaches' tasks, and a broader deployment of job coaches could increase the sustainability of work;]] [[invites the government to examine, within the framework of the Breed Offensive, whether and how job coaching and reintegration services can be better coordinated, and to consider how a combination of job coaching and reintegration services can also increase the chances of sustainable work from WW and assistance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Participation Act already provides that the City Council by regulation lays down rules on the request for consideration;]] [[whereas there is broad support for the provision of tailor-made and "property" consideration, and that the consideration is seen as positive by the majority of jobseekers;]] [[points out that not compulsion, but positive motivation and urge should guide the consideration in the assistance;]] [[further points out that in good consultation with the client, the consideration should be able to include everything that can contribute to the promotion of social participation in the broadest sense of the word, and, if possible, the acquisition of work,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the minimum wage at the time of its introduction more than 50 years ago amounted to about 65% of the average wage and today to around 45% of the average wage;]] [[whereas the minimum wage now has 20% less purchasing power than in the 1970s;]] [[Whereas people with a minimum wage or associated benefit or AOW continue to be at the back of welfare development;]] [[Whereas the Cabinet fully recognises that people must reap the benefits of general prosperity growth and that wages should be raised;]] [[Whereas it is desirable that people with a minimum income should be as dependent as possible on supplementary supplements and (municipal) income schemes;]] [[also considering that various (global) studies indicate that possible negative effects of an increase in the minimum wage on employment are limited, and that a modest increase in the minimum wage can increase innovation and labour productivity;]] [[calls on the government to increase the legal minimum wage (wml) by 3% in 2020 on top of the usual indexation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Brenn and Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XV-68]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Brenn and Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XV-69]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XV-70]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XV-71]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u361	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday, I started my speech by saying that a government must be just and honest with its citizens. I told you about Karel who couldn't make ends meet at the nursing home. I hope to be able to discuss this again with this Secretary of State. I hope she is open to that. I also told about the Kanters family, who has a daughter with a Wajong benefit; she worked and could not get a sustainable job. Work doesn't pay for her, because she gets into trouble. Work doesn't pay by supplementing there, and it should, especially for Wajangers. I told him about Koos, that he was low-lettered and that he struggled so much with it. That wasn't random, that was because Koos used to go to school hungry. His father was an alcoholic and Koos went to school without food. He saw a colleague, his fellow student, sitting with an apple. He had nothing to eat. So the concentration couldn't go to class because he was hungry. Kids still go to school without food. The number of people at the food bank is still growing and we still see that older people live below the social minimum due to higher care costs or simply cannot be found by the Social Insurance Bank. Too many people working, not working, retired....................................................................................................................................................................... That is a disgrace on our beautiful, rich Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. We therefore find it extremely hard for all those people who are sitting in this Chamber and receiving more than a tonne of salary to make full use of their generous unemployment provision of tens of thousands of euros. Formally, it may be his right, but morally, it's reprehensible. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u362	Thank you very much, Mrs Van Brenn. I now give the floor to Mr Stoffer on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u363	Mr President, I thought I had three minutes left. Isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u364	Yeah, three minutes. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u365	Mr. Chairman. Since I'm also guilty of four motions, I'm gonna get right on it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the death of loved ones is a major event in personal life;]] [[calls on the Government to increase the scope for mourning in the workplace by providing better information on loss of earnings through mourning, better support in applying for benefits, the promotion of expertise among occupational doctors, the promotion of agreements on leave for mourning in collective agreements and the promotion of availability and accessibility of expertise on mourning,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas policy information on the average tax burden should provide the most accurate picture of reality;]] [[noting that households where the least-earning partner earns only minimally as "two-earners," while the income-dependent combination discount (IACK) applies only to an income of more than €5.072 of the least-earning partner,]] [[Calls on the Government to map the average tax burden by 2020 for two-earning people with the income of the least-earning partner below the threshold income of the IACK and for two-earning persons with the least-earning partner's income higher than the threshold income of the IACK, and to send this analysis to the Chamber as soon as possible;]] [[invites the Government to report this analysis to the Chamber on an annual basis,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that proven safe and innovative methods for the rehabilitation of asbestos are still not allowed despite adopted motions;]] [[noting that further research is being requested, while research carried out by the independent RIP on the basis of measurement data has already confirmed the safety of some methods;]] [[considers that it should be avoided that demonstrably safe, innovative methods for cleaning up asbestos through lock-in effects of the traditional certification scheme and monopoly structures in the existing asbestos system are blocked;]] [[Whereas the unilateral reference in the Working Conditions Regulation to the semi-private certification scheme of Ascert Management Foundation does not reflect the separation of public target requirements and semi-private certification required by Europe;]] [[calls on the Government to adapt Article 4.27 of the Working Conditions Regulation before the entry into force of the European certification rules on 1 January next in such a way as to allow the use of multiple certification schemes, provided that they are equivalent and comply with the relevant target requirements,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the possibility of income release due to an hour limitation is essential for Wajongers who receive income supplement under the Participation Act;]] [[noting that the proposed legal standards were not supported by the introduction of the income release due to hours limitation in the Participation Act;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the appropriate standards for the release of income in the Participation Act, including in view of the proposed harmonisation of the Wajong,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Stoffer and Mr Smeulders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XV-72]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Stoffer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XV-73]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Stoffer and Mr von Martels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XV-74]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Stoffer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XV-75]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u366	I'm out of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u367	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. I now give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u368	Mr. Chairman. It is always good to note that this is the last budget debate this year, of this edition. It is not very late, but I would like to thank the two directors very much for the answers they have given to the first-term questions. And I would, of course, like to thank the officials for all the hard work. I have three motions of my own. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that AOW is a basic pension, approximately at the level of the social minimum;]] [[noting that a full AOW is only awarded to people who have lived on Dutch soil for 50 years;]] [[Whereas people with a migration background are not always able to meet this requirement and are therefore either below the social minimum or have to eat their savings and homes;]] [[considers that this is not fair, at least not for people who have lived in the Kingdom of the Netherlands for 50 years or more;]] [[calls on the Minister to consider whether, and in what way, all years spent in the Kingdom of the Netherlands can be counted as AOW-building years,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XV-76]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u369	Then there's the second motion, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government agreement includes a reduction in the pay-as-you-go period for small employers to 25 employees from two to one year, and a transfer of the pay-as-you-go obligation to the UWV;]] [[noting that the coalition agreement has not yet been implemented on this point, but that there is a plan for commercial policies, with unclear coverage and premium;]] [[whereas entrepreneurs have nothing to do with a plan from the Hague drawing board, which does not reflect the real reality outside the Hague cheese stall;]] [[calls on the Government to comply with its own coalition agreement;]] [[calls on the Government to implement credible public and widely accessible absenteeism insurance, in accordance with the government agreement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XV-77]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u370	Mr. Chairman. I must say that I think that the Secretary of State is taking really good steps in combating labour market discrimination, but we would not be DENK if we did not help the Minister in the right direction. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the State Secretary has submitted a legislative proposal requiring employers to take action against discrimination in the labour market;]] [[noting that the non-compliance was subject to a fine of €4,500;]] [[whereas this is a high amount for some companies, but a very low amount for others;]] [[considers that a one-size-fits-all fine is not fair and ineffective;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether a differentiated fine is possible, depending on turnover, and to amend the draft legislative proposal accordingly,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XV-78]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u371	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u372	Thank you, Mr. Kuzu. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u373	Mr President, I think I had just over three minutes left. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u374	I don't know. That's well kept up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u375	Because I have five motions, so I can't make it in three minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u376	It's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u377	Okay, thank you. Fine, then I'm just gonna get started. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that around one in nine children live in poverty in the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas it is very poignant and unacceptable that children live in poverty in a prosperous country such as the Netherlands, so that they do not have a warm winter coat, receive only one meal a day or can never go on a school trip;]] [[noting that child poverty leads to embarrassment, stress and backwardness which are difficult to catch up with;]] [[noting that the Netherlands is seventh in the EU when it comes to child poverty and that in Scandinavian countries child poverty rates are structurally lower than in the Netherlands;]] [[Considering that the Cabinet, together with the UNG, has formulated ambitions to boost the approach to child poverty, while also focusing on broad opportunity poverty, and wants to report on child poverty every two years;]] [[calls on the government, in addition to the stated ambitions, to promote the approach to child poverty together with the UNG, including:]] [[explicitly learn from the successful approach to child poverty in Scandinavian countries and, together with the VNG and child poverty specialists, consider whether this approach could also be successful in the Netherlands;]] [[inform the Chamber annually, instead of every two years, of the results of tackling child poverty;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XV-79]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u378	I understand that Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen needs more time, because I think these were almost two pages in one motion, with a lot of requests. I would like to call on ourselves and Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen to be a little shorter and more powerful.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u379	I do not think it is exceptional to table a half-page motion with only two requests to the government, you know. You can still read it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in two thirds of the municipalities little or no debt relief has been provided forzzp'ers;]] [[noting that the EUR 90 million reserved by the government for municipal debt relief is not earmarked;]] [[Whereas it is not intended that the funds earmarked for the provision of debt relief to persons in need of specialist assistance should not be transferred to this specific group;]] [[calls on the government to continue to pay attention to the debt relief provided tozzp'ers, so that the amount reserved for municipal debt relief forzzp'ers is really for the benefit ofzzp'ers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, unlike zzp-mothers, a partner who is a zzp-er cannot guarantee maternity and parental leave;]] [[noting that a partner who is azzp person pays the same insurance rate as azzp mother;]] [[having noted that, since 1 January 2019, partners as employed persons may take one week's leave and from 1 July 2020, at 70% of their salary, five weeks' optional parental leave;]] [[Whereas it is also invaluable forzzp partners to establish a link with and take care of the child;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibilities for maternity and parental leave forzzp partners, and to inform the Chamber about the results,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas everyone in the Netherlands should have a good old age;]] [[Whereas pension building contributes to this;]] [[Whereas all workers, includingzzp'ers, are entitled to and should contribute to this;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how the costs of pension building forzzp's can be simply charged to clients in the same way as VAT, and how the money can be paid to azzp pension fund, and inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XV-80]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XV-81]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Kooten-Arissen and Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XV-82]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u380	Finally. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the transition to regular work from the assistance for many vulnerable people is simply too much to ask;]] [[noting that people who would like to work often find it difficult to find a suitable job from the assistance;]] [[Whereas recent municipal pilots with a basic job of social benefit, appropriate to the skills of the job seeker and at a minimum wage, are proving to be successful;]] [[Whereas everyone who wants to work must be able to work and be helped in a positive and supportive way to bridge the distance from the labour market;]] [[calls on the government, in cooperation with the VNG, to call on municipalities to learn from the success factors of pilots with basic jobs and to encourage more municipalities to help people out of the assistance with a basic job at minimum wage,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XV-83]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u381	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u382	Thank you, Mrs Van Kooten. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. 55 motions have been tabled, so I'm gonna take a look at the Minister and the Secretary of State. How many hours do they think they'll need to prepare? Twenty minutes, I hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u383	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u384	Thank you, Madam President. I will start by answering a few questions, then I will discuss the motions and then the amendments. But before I start, I would like to say that I have found this a nice debate. It was a fun evening, a good atmosphere, constructive, good proposals. Direction Mrs. Tielen on my two grandfathers. Unfortunately, I never knew one grandpa, because he died when I wasn't born. It was in the installation technique. And my other grandfather was a construction worker. He was the last years of his working life forklift driver. And I did know him. Oh, thank God! Direction Mr Jasper van Dijk. I'd like to go shopping with you. I understand that Mr Kwint does not want a suit from us. I saw that on Twitter yesterday. I'm sorry to hear that. But I also saw suggestions of, I think, the FNV, that we should go to the Bijenkorf anyway, to the Hema and to another store. I would like to go to Rotterdam with Mr Jasper van Dijk. Unfortunately, it's been 2-2 tonight. But that's completely out of the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u385	Mr. Jasper van Dijk, I hear you have no influence on Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u386	I feel like we can come to a deal here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u387	With Mr. Kwint in there, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u388	It's possible. The Minister would like to shop in Rotterdam. Mr Kwint said that I would like to shop with the Minister, provided that this Primark premium is abolished.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u389	Yes...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u390	So maybe we can do it in return.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u391	Then it'll be a very expensive day out, with 260 million. Why don't we just follow those suggestions together? The Hague is also welcome. Deal?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u392	It's in the Acts, so it's agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u393	I had promised Mrs Van Brenn to come back to the first-term question on the ESF. The ESF 2014-2020 programme was indeed aimed at sustainable employability. That's about to end. We're out of budget, too. The next path for the coming years 2020, 2021-2027 will focus in particular on the bottom of the labour market. That was also the commitment of the Dutch cabinet. This means that the issue is no longer "sustainable'. Apart from that, of course, we all have other areas where'sustainable employability' is at stake, but not through the ESF. Mrs Tielen asked: can the Minister provide insight into the practical research into good initiatives when it comes to fun long learning? Oh, no, it was "long learning." For this we have the programs of Divosa craftsmanship and expert at the work of ZonMw. That's a programmatic approach. That's what these are all about. Mrs Tielen also asked: what are you doing about seasonal work in the WAB? We've agreed on a number of matters, both in this Chamber and in the Upper Chamber. In addition to all kinds of legal provisions, such as those relating to callers and three-quarters mandatory collective agreement rights, we have recently developed the calamity regime together with the social partners. Then it is mainly about working in bad weather, so with frost, strong wind and that sort of thing. I am pleased that we have reached agreement on this with the social partners in all these sectors. So that's step one. Step two is one in the context of the Wiersma motion and a motion in the First Chamber. Mr Wiersma raised a question on multiannual temporary contracts in the context of the Labour Market Act. In the First Chamber a specific question was asked about the seasonal contracts. I am in agreement with the employers' organisations in particular. Only, that cannot be done in the short term, because it has to do with systems that need to be adapted. Those are the systems of the UWV and that has to do with the way in which we can register and track that. So that conversation's still going on. I hope to be able to inform you about this in the course of 2020. Mrs Tielen also had a question about the timetable of the Borstlap Committee. The opinion was presented on 23 January. Mr Pieter Heerma has tabled a motion to the General Political Reviews to get a quick first cabinet response to it, and also a first debate with your Chamber. I am trying to have that first cabinet reaction before the end of Q1, so in the first quarter of 2020, to be able to debate this with your Chamber. It also takes into account the ideas on the code of work suggested by Mrs Tielen in the question. Then I'm gonna come to the motions, and I'm gonna try to get through it fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u394	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u395	The motion-De Jong in part No. 29 I must advise against, because it is contrary to international treaties. The motion-De Jong in part No. 30 is going to close the borders. That's not cabinet policy. I'll have to dissuade the motion. The motion-De Jong in part No. 31 on stopping the export of benefits, with the exception of the AOW, and the possible termination of treaties is also contrary to cabinet policy, so I advise the motion. I have already spoken in the first term about Gorkum, about which the De Graaf/Wilders motion in part No. 32 goes. I gave the answer in the written set that the Minister of Justice is on top of it. There have also been four arrests in that case. I find the operative part discriminatory and polarizing, and therefore I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u396	The violence was discriminatory, racist and polarizing. Why is the Minister turning that around?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u397	I'm not turning anything around. I find the operative part discriminatory and stigmatizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u398	The violence was discriminatory.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u399	Violence does not fit in with our society, let me make that clear. That is also what the Minister of Justice and Security stated in the letter he sent to your Chamber. In the meantime, four suspects have been apprehended, and we have a rule of law. The De Graaf motion in part No. 33 is about Islamic banking and hawala banking. Islamic banking is not prohibited, but is supervised by DNB. Mosque funding is not prohibited either. What matters, including in our policies, is to finance problematic behavior or encourage problematic behavior. We are working on the task force's problematic behavior to bring that under control through various legislative proposals. This goes too far in that context, and that is why I must discourage the motion. The motion-De Graaf/Wilders in part No. 34 I give judgment "dissuade." It is a recurring point of debate. For the motion in part No. 35, on de-Islamicisation and banning mosques, the same applies. We have the freedom of religion. You know the answer: dissuade. Then I come to the Tielen/Van Weyenberg motion on part No. 36 which calls on the government to encourage employers to offer extra hours. That motion will be judged by Chamber. I am happy to include it in the conversation I have with social partners, even after the previous Van Weyenberg/Tielen motion on this point. Then there is the Tielen/Palland motion in part No. Thirty-seven on the quick scan. I have to say a few words about that. I have indicated in the written set that I want to keep my finger on the wrist. That's what I'm gonna do. Monitoring after one quarter is really very complicated. I can tell you what is going to happen, namely that a lot of people who have to get used to the new law have adaptation symptoms. Moreover, after one quarter we simply have no data, no figures. Those figures for the first quarter will not be available until June at the earliest. Then you have to do some research into what you can then distinguish cyclically and structurally from each other. So I'm afraid I can't pass judgment on this motion, Chamber. There's nothing I'd rather do, but I'm afraid I can't judge her Chamber. But I'm gonna keep my finger on the wrist. I promise Mrs. Tielen. If there are signs that things are really going wrong, I will, of course, come back to your room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u400	I also asked Mrs Tielen a question about this, because I think we are just waiting for the evaluation of the WWZ. The coalition didn't want to wait for that: the SAB had to go through it. The fact that we now have to evaluate a new law in one quarter seems a little quick.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u401	What I understand very well from Mrs Tielen's question is: you have a new law. It goes in and that's pretty exciting. There are a few really new situations, for example the premium differentiation in the WW, which some employers really need to get used to. I know that Mr Van Dijk is very much in favour of this. At the same time, I understand Mrs Tiemen's concerns and that she wants to keep her finger on the wrist to see if something is going wrong. That's how I interpreted it. A quickscan or a real evaluation or mini-evaluation based on quantitative data is just not possible, I guess. It doesn't make much sense. The review of the Work and Security Act is already underway; it will come in 2020. Then there is the Tielen motion in part No. 38 on the SME test and whether the final version of the web module is sufficiently clear. That's a motion I'm giving you, Chamber. The motion in part No. 39, on supporting innovative initiatives in a Lifelong Learning. The ESC, the Social Economic Council with Mrs Hamer as its President, is presenting inspiring initiatives as a driving force and is expected to deliver an opinion this year on the challenges of lifelong development and social security. I therefore propose to include this further in the progress letter that I have long agreed to develop in the AO Life for the summer. With the addition that I can take it with me, I'm giving her judgment Chamber. The motion in part No. 42 Mr Smeulders and Mr Van Weyenberg are still incomprehensible to me. That's a joke! Of course, I'd like to give her judgment room. The variants that the government is asked to work out, I do not want to elaborate until after the cabinet response to the ibo part-time. He'll be here soon. It's coming soon, and then I've got a direction for which variants are very promising. With that addition, I'm giving her judgment room. I hope we will have a less irritated Mr Smeulders next year. That's entrapment again! The motion in part No. 43 as part of the initiative paper of GroenLinks Together. We will come back to that later in any case with a cabinet response. In this context a reconnaissance: Judgment Chamber. The motion in part No. 49. I'm sorry, but all the motions I'm skipping now are, of course, dealt with by the Secretary of State. I forgot to mention that. The motion in part No. Forty-nine by Mrs Palland, Mr Postma and Mr Bruins, I give the Chamber's judgment. The motion in part No. 50 by Mrs Palland and Mr Van Kent are the successor to last year's debate by Mr Van Kent and Mr Heerma on this SEO research. I'd like to give her judgment Chamber, but I'd like to do so with an effort. I would like to make it quite clear that it is an effort, because it is extremely complicated matter. I'll give her judgment Room with this addition. The motion in part No. 51 by Mrs Palland and Mr Bruins on the Northern Alliance of Schools and their examples. The government wants to continue to support regions in an appropriate way. That is what the Secretary of State and I also stated in our letter of 12 July last on regional initiatives and lifelong development. That's why I'm leaving this motion to judge Chamber. The motion in part No. 55 asks the SER Youth Platform to advise on the minimum youth wage. I want to make all kinds of jokes about that, but I'm not gonna do that. I find it very interesting to hear how the SER Youth Platform looks at this. But I'd like to give you one consideration. The second evaluation of the increase in wml is only available in mid-2020. I would like to give you a moment to wait for this evaluation and to pass it on to the SER Youth Platform. Then I'll give her judgment room. Mr Van Kent, Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mrs Van Brenk and Mr Smeulders took part in the debate. 56 tabled a motion on the flexible shell. How can it be reduced? That is not an end in itself and therefore I advise against this motion. That is, of course, always about certainty, about development and all the other words I have said. The motion in part No. Mr Van Kent, Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Smeulders, on the beaming standard for pensions. You know my point of view: dissuade. The motion in part No. Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Van Weyenberg asked the government to draw up a plan for equal opportunities for women, which included the above points. This is in line with the cabinet and we will involve this in the cabinet response to the SER opinion Diversity in the summit and also in the cabinet position on the ibo part-time. Against that background, I'm giving her judgment room. The motion in part No. 61 by Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Gijs van Dijk on the com petition clause. I take the two points made by Mr Wörsdörfer, namely the context and extent of the problem. I made a commitment on this in my first term. Against that background, I'm giving her judgment room. The motion in part No. 62 by Mr Van Weyenberg and Mrs Tielen, I would like to give a ruling to the Chamber, but with one comment. The motion refers to multi-work bonuses and full-time bonuses and the question is whether that is legally feasible, or whether it fits into equal treatment legislation. But apart from those two examples, they are, for example, I think that the direction is a good one, and that is why I am happy to give that motion judgment Chamber. The Van Weyenberg/Palland motion in part No. 63 with the request to develop technical policy variants for the further implementation of the opinion of the Regulatory Committee. Judgment Room. Let us not anticipate what that is, because we have to wait for the advice, but variants are always good. Then the motion to part No. 68 by Mrs Van Benk and Mr Kuzu. I must tell you quite frankly that I find that a difficult motion. I find the goal very sympathetic and I have already indicated that I want to reduce non-use, also in the context of an agreement I have with Rutger Groot Wassink. The Court of Auditors' report also wants that. There are only two considerations in the operative part of this motion that I cannot make happen, namely 'within three months' and'solving'. I don't know if I can fix it. That is why, unfortunately, I have to discourage this motion, but I do say that I am going to do very much to reduce that non-use and that I am also going to look outside the beaten track to see how we can solve those problems by linking files, also with the SVB.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u402	Does the Minister have any idea in what period of time he will do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u403	No, not at the moment. I can't tell you right now. I'm gonna do my best to do that as soon as possible. Really as soon as possible, but I can't say a precise term and I don't have a third term, thank God.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u404	I think we agree on the objective. So I hope Mrs Van Brenk will stalk the Minister for a moment to come up with a motion that can be given a Chamber of Justice. Because I think we agree on the goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u405	Mr. Chairman. I think that's game-damaged.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u406	Well, I wasn't gonna say that, but go on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u407	That was very collegial of you, Mr. Van Weyenberg. Very good. The motion in part No. 71 by Mrs Van Brenk on the increase in wml. That's not cabinet policy. I'm gonna have to advise against that motion. The motion in part No. 72 by Mr Stoffer and Mr Smeulders on leave for mourning. Once again, I congratulate you on the manifesto that was handed over yesterday. This motion I give judgment Chamber, bearing in mind also what I said in my first term. The motion in part No. Mr Stoffer's 73 is actually about the tax burden. Frankly, I think that this motion belongs to the Secretary of State for Finance, within the framework of the Tax Plan, because it concerns the tax burden. I would suggest that you table that motion at the next debate on taxation with the Secretary of State, because it is really not my policy and not ours.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u408	Or what?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u409	Otherwise, I must advise her not to, but I know that Mr Stoffer has frequently had discussions with Mr Snel about one and two-earners. I cannot answer for Mr Snel now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u410	I'll sleep on it and I'll let you know what I'll do with it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u411	Okay. You can do that until Tuesday, so you still have some time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u412	You can sleep more nights on it. The motion in part No. 76 by Mr Kuzu. A few words about that too. That motion refers to the years spent in the Kingdom of the Netherlands, in particular the Surinamese and Antillean Dutch. I have already said in my first term that this has been discussed more often in the Chamber over the years. There are also a number of judgments on the Supreme Court, the Equal Treatment College and the Central Appeals Board which confirm the Government's position on this matter. Once again, I have promised Mrs Van Brenn that I will do my utmost to reduce the non-use of AIO, but I must advise against this motion. The motion in part No. Mr Kuzu's 77th report deals with health insurance for SMEs and other solutions for payment of wages in the event of illness. That is precisely where we have deviated from the government agreement to develop an alternative, together with the social partners, with the employers' and workers' organisations, because the proposal from the government agreement could not. That's why I have to discourage that motion. The motion in part No. 81 by Mrs Van Kooten is about maternity and parental leave forzzp partners. We have dealt with this extensively in the treatment of the Act introducing additional birth leave and I must therefore advise against it. The motion in part No. 82 by Mrs Van Kooten and Mrs Van Brenk are about pension-building ofzzp'ers. I think it's important thatzzp'ers have the opportunity to build up pensions. This can be done fiscally and in the pension agreement we have also agreed on making pension building easier, including in the second pillar. So we are looking at how to remove legal barriers and also whether experiments are possible. This is already in the context of a pension agreement. For example, discussions are also taking place withzzp organisations. In this form, I must discourage the motion. A few more amendments. I had already given an opinion on the amendment to item No. 21 by Mr Peters and Mr Rog on the Week of Respect, namely Court of Justice, and Mr Van Weyenberg's amendment to item No. 24 about Diversity in Company, also Judgment Room. I also have two new amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u413	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u414	One belongs to Mrs Becker, in part No. 28, following the WHO Integration on its own initiative paper on combating honour-related violence and self-determination. That is an important theme and also a beautiful theme. So I'm glad we managed to find some budget for that, so I'm gonna pass the amendment on to Chamber. Finally, Mr Paternotte's and Mr Peters' amendments to item No. 27. That's another thing I'm judging Chamber. This was also discussed in the WHO Integration two weeks ago. That is all I have to say, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u415	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u416	Thank you, Mr President. I have a number of questions, a number of motions and another amendment. I would like to start with Mrs Tielen's questions. It was indeed nice to think about. My one grandfather was in the insurance business, but when he met my grandmother, he was in the Navy. That was at Scheveningen, where they met. Sure, in uniform. My other grandfather, who, by the way, has been watching the first term of this debate in full, I hope he doesn't do that anymore, but should he look: hello, grandpa has done a lot. That grandpa, who likes to follow these debates, was a driver at some point, then garage chief and then head of transportation at a ministry. But I also have really cool pictures of him from the period just after the war, when he was working as a mover and so really walks behind his back with some of those tough guys with those pianos. I'm so proud of him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u417	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u418	Mrs Tielen also asked about the presence of pilots and/or experiments in municipalities where the group of people who do not want to work is concerned. Such pilots are not known to SZW. What we do do, in the experiments mentioned above, is distinguish between groups that receive more intensive guidance and groups that receive less intensive guidance. The results of these experiments, as I have already mentioned, will be informed this spring. Mr Wörsdörfer asked what else I could do to ensure that webshops show socially responsible behaviour, whether there is a code for this and whether we can talk to representatives of this industry. It's about socializing private parties, like web stores. I'm willing to engage with the Schuldeisers coalition. That is a group of primary creditors who strives to help customers who pay badly or cannot pay proactively. An important goal of this coalition is to prevent problem debt. Think of parties like Achmea, bol.com, CZ, Nationale Nederlanden, Vodafone and Ziggo. They're taking part in that coalition. This Schuldeisers coalition is also a participant of the partnership in the broad debt approach. I will invite them to explain the approach and share knowledge of it with us. In addition, I will organise a conversation through the contact points for web stores, such as Thuiswinkel.org, to see which rules or codes of conduct they use and what can be learned from them in order to spread them as a good example. Then there was a question from Mr Stoffer about research into objective standards. I'll handle it in motion. There were questions from Mr Renkema and Mr De Jong on the investigation of posting facilities in the labour market regions. When does that come to the House of Commons? I would also like to take into account the views of the ESC's dialogue sessions. I aim to do so by March 2020. I shall therefore turn to Mr De Jong's question as to whether a step should be taken in the direction of the involvement of social development companies. Mr Van Weyenberg asked an intrusive question about distressing situations that people experience in welfare; let me just mention that. The example he mentions, I also followed on social media. To be honest, I didn't have any words for that either. You can see that people who are terminally ill actually have to meet all kinds of obligations and are afraid of them. I do not think that should be the case, nor should it be the case. Because local authorities, especially at local level, have very close proximity to the citizen, explicit opportunities to ensure that they can take into account individual circumstances and make their services appropriate. I also think that they should do justice to the situation in which someone is so affected, and to the sad situation in which someone is. Then you have to make sure you look at the individual situation. Then you shouldn't be strictly on all kinds of obligations. Fortunately, I also hear the opposite very often, namely that municipalities do apply this customization. But it remains important to talk about this with each other. This means that I will record this again, also in the Gemeente nieuws. I will also stress how this has been changed in the Chamber. And I will stress that municipalities can also do customization here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u419	Very briefly, Mr. Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u420	I'd like to get back to you about that conversation with the municipalities. That is a good suggestion from colleague Jasper van Dijk. I think that's important. Because we're all struggling with this. I could also imagine that the Secretary of State would take one more look at whether or not she would have to take care of something separately. If it can all be arranged properly and it works, that's fine. One thing is that people find it annoying when they get the impression that they have to ask for some sort of "mess in the law." But of course this is not a loophole in the law and it should not be. You just have the right for the municipality to take your circumstances into account. So I would appreciate it if when the Secretary of State reports back, she also talks to these municipalities once more and asks: can you really get out of your way with what you have, or do you still need something from the legislator? I would also like that question to be explicitly put on the table. Because if that's the case, then we want to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u421	Yeah, there's a lot of options. In addition, there is always the article that underpins a hardness clause. I'm talking to the municipalities on December 5th. That's one of those appointments I have on that day, so I don't have the opportunity to go to SOWECO. But this is also a relevant conversation and I will also discuss this issue with municipalities. Mr Wörsdörfer asked another question about assistance tozzp'ers. Let me be very clear about this: in the case of problematic debt,zzp'ers must also be given good services. In particular, we have received signals about helping entrepreneurs with debt, which show that not all municipalities find each other in good time as well. The Municipal Debt Assistance Act is also accessible tozzp'ers. In the proposed amendment to the Municipal Debt Assistance Act, I have therefore also explicitly paid attention to the responsibility of municipalities to also provide help to entrepreneurs. In support of municipalities, Divosa has developed a method aimed at both municipal debt relief and also at the Self-employed Window. Shoulders Underneath and cooperating municipalities that are members of the Platform of Public Entrepreneurship Advisory Organisations also prepare workshops to improve the service from municipalities to entrepreneurs with debt. There is also a Money Plan forzzp'ers, which the Nibud has recently developed with the help of many experts and municipalities. That is a good example, but the most important thing seems to me to be that it will also be in the law, so that people can also point out that legal text. Mr. Chairman. I'm getting to the motions. The first motion to which I must respond is the motion in part No. 40, a motion by Mr Wörsdörfer and Mr Raemakers. This motion I give judgment Chamber. I'm willing to investigate this with JenV and the VNG. The motion in part No. 41 by Mr Wörsdörfer, I give judgment to the Chamber. I've been in touch with the Ministry of EZK. The motion in part No. Forty-four of Mr Renkema's services are, after all, the safety net of social security and the means test is an important one. If you have sufficient income yourself, you are not entitled to welfare. Those data................................................................................................................................................................................................... But it is clear that the answer I just gave to Mr Van Weyenberg must be included.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u422	I would suggest that you wait for the response to your other motions, Mr. Renkema. You will have the floor in a moment, including this motion. You've filed four motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u423	Then I'll keep them in order, Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 45 tabled by Mr Renkema, Mrs Westerveld and Mr Van Meenen. At present we have a number of interdepartmental policy studies: ibo supplements and ibo part-time. In it we look at the system of allowances and at the distribution of labour and care. These studies look broad and contain a view of the future. They're also about potential system changes. Then, as a cabinet, we will respond to the opinions of both investigations. As a result of Mrs Westerveld's motion, I indicated earlier that I gave my view on childcare after both studies had been completed. If I may take the motion in such a way that, after the completion of the investigations, I will look openly at the achievements and shortcomings of the current system and at various variants to change the system in the future, then I can give the motion judgment Chamber. Then I'll take her very widely.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u424	That's the case, Mr. Renkema? Yeah, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u425	Fine. Then I'll give the motion judgment chamber. The motion in part No. Forty-six of Mr Renkema and Mr Smeulders, I recommend. At present there are apprenticeships and through Perspective at Work there is a regional focus on these themes. Employers' service points have also been recently launched. I'd like to shape it first. What I do want to do, despite the fact that I do not recommend the motion, is at the next meeting of the aldermen from the center municipalities in the labour market regions tell us about this initiative and the idea behind it. So I would like to convey the idea, because regions are free to work on it. The motion in part No. 47 by Mr Renkema, Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mrs Van Brenk, I recommend. I have indeed indicated that I suggested at the Cedris lecture that this might be a nice thought. However, municipalities are about the social infrastructure and I am still waiting for a number of investigations and effects of motions. So I think the discussion is premature at the moment. It's an interesting thought, though. Nevertheless, I advise against the motion. The motion in part No. 48 by Mr Renkema, Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Jasper van Dijk, I recommend. In the case of people who do not wish to participate, the instrument should be mandatory. I would like to say that this is a different discussion from the one we had on the appropriate offer. The instrument of return does apply to the Participation Act. This, of course, also has to do with the discussion we have just had on, among other things, the basis of support.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u426	About the motion in part No. 44. In view of the discussion that has just taken place between the Secretary of State and Mr Van Weyenberg, I would like to proceed with this motion. I'd like to see what comes out of the conversation with the congregations. Then perhaps we can vote on it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u427	At the request of Mr Renkema, I propose his motion (35300-XV, No. 44). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u428	The motion in part No. 52 is in the area of the Ministry of Justice and Security. Much is already being done to prevent and reject increases. This is particularly true in the case of traffic fines. I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 53 by Mr Peters and Mrs Van Brenn on the number of homeless is on the premises of my fellow Secretary of State for the United States of America. I can't rule on that, so I'm gonna advise against the motion. In the motion in part No. Mr Peters and Mr Jasper van Dijk asked for a more detailed examination of the impact of the cost sharing standard. I wouldn't recommend that motion. The cost sharing standard shall take into account cost benefits that exist. I support this principle. That is why I do not see any added value in an examination of the cost sharing standard. Moreover, here too, the Participation Act offers municipalities sufficient opportunities to apply customisation in individual cases when it comes to vulnerable people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u429	I understand perfectly well that the Secretary of State supports the principle of the cost-sharing standard. I did not say that I did not agree with that at all a priori. In fact, we have that standard, but in the context of homelessness and the couch surfing of our young people, I would like to know what its effects will ultimately be. I want to know what I stand for or stand for. I don't really understand why that investigation can't just happen. No way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u430	There are many possible causes of this problem. The U.S. Secretary of State is trying to figure out the causes of the increase. That could very well be in another field. I think it's important to have that on the table first. In the meantime, I am working very actively with municipalities to remind them of this customization.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u431	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u432	Well, finally. If it comes from somewhere else, it should probably come from that investigation. Anyway, I hear what the Secretary of State says.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u433	The motion in part No. 58 by Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Van Weyenberg are concerned with training and retraining in assistance. The request is to promote this by drawing up a plan with the social partners. This is in line with the practical learning initiative we have with the SBB. This is also supported by Perspective at Work. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 60 by Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Raemakers on the Council's opinion on the case law, I give the Chamber's opinion. The motion in part No. 64 by Mr Gijs van Dijk on the SER alert for social development companies. The SER has now done a reconnaissance. As a result, we are now investigating posting facilities in the labour market regions. I'll inform your room in the spring about that. I would therefore like to ask Mr Van Dijk if he is perhaps in a position to hold this motion until we have received it, otherwise we will continue to carry out research.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u434	Gijs van Dijk thinks about it. That's good. No, would you like to hold the motion? Is that what you mean? Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u435	What in the motion to part No. Question No 65 by Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Bruins is contrary to the decentralisation we have chosen in the area of poverty and debt policy. I therefore advise against this motion. Then the motion to part No. 66 by Mr Bruins and Mr Gijs van Dijk. I am working with the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media and other parties on a project to strengthen the role of schools. I certainly see an added value in involving the expertise of the Youth Education Fund. I therefore give this motion judgment Chamber. I like the motion tabled by Mr Bruins, Mrs Nijkerken-De Haan, Mr Peters and Mr Van Weyenberg. It also affects the sense of justice to reward municipalities that have carried out sheltered work in relation to municipalities that have not done so. That's why I'm giving this motion judgment Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 69 by Mrs Van Brenn and Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. The part about the WW I find difficult, because in what I can do I have less influence on it. But this is a subject that I want to give a place to in the Breed Offensive. So, if I may explain the motion in such a way that I will involve insights from research in this process, the UWV and SZW are now also investigating the job coach; the House of Representatives will soon be informed about this. The motion in part No. Mrs Van Brenk's 70 is about the consideration. Again, that is one of the instruments in the Participation Act and a different theme from what we talked about this morning in the appropriate offer. I agree with her that the compensation can bring many positives, but it must remain possible to make the compensation compulsory if people do not want it. That's why I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. Mr Stoffer's and Mr von Martels' 74 are concerned with the asbestos system. On this motion, Mr President, I shall stand still a little longer, because it calls for an adaptation of the asbestos system. That adjustment is something I cannot implement because there can only be one certification scheme. If you had more schedules, you'd get different demands on companies that do the same kind of work. You'll get confusion and, perhaps worse, legal inequality. I read the motion correctly. If I understand the background, this is mainly about innovation. I think we can really get along on that. The policy response of September 2018 was aimed at enabling more innovation in working methods. However, it is important to note that we must not lose safety, because asbestos is and remains dangerous. However, we want innovative ideas to be evaluated more quickly, so that new practices can be brought to the market more quickly. Innovation pays off. That is why I am working on the creation of the VIP, the Validation and Innovation Point. The sector itself has not been idle either. A number of innovative practices and products have already been submitted and evaluated over the past period. It therefore appears that these can be safely applied. That's what's happening now. If we can find each other on that, I think we'll still be able to meet each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u436	If I understand correctly, the Secretary of State makes a promise to make real progress in allowing innovative safe working methods. That is what Mr von Martels and I are talking about. I can even see the Secretary of State nodding. Then I'll just keep that motion above the market and keep it on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u437	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u438	May I have my motion on part No. Seventy-three moving in? Well, I guess I did, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u439	Of course. You can always do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u440	Exactly. And the motion in part No. 73, I'm moving in.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u441	Since the motion for a resolution (, No ) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u442	I would also like to point out to Mr Stoffer that in the letter I have already provided for this year, I will go into detail about the progress made on innovation in the asbestos sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u443	Mr Gijs van Dijk has considered his motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u444	Yeah, about that very good motion in part number. 65 on the funds for child poverty. That's $100 million. The only thing we are asking is for municipalities to explain it if they spend it differently. That is a very simple question, but the Secretary of State says: no, it can't be, because that's up to municipalities themselves. I think that's just what we agreed: 100 million for those kids; explain how you spend that money if you spend it differently. That makes perfect sense. I think we can all agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u445	Through the administrative agreements between the Empire and the VNG, we have agreed on the goals to be achieved. They're also being evaluated. I read this motion in such a way that we are moving towards a different type of financing, with accountability being made in a different way. Then I'll have to discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u446	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u447	Mr. Chairman. On Mr Stoffer's motion on item No. 75 I would like to state the following. It's a technical story, but soon I'll come up with the law for the Breed Offensive to the Chamber. I think it is a very fair question from Mr Stoffer, because it must be clear on which a standard is based. I will include a clear justification in the explanatory memorandum. I therefore ask Mr Stoffer to hold this motion until this law has been sent to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u448	Then I'll take that advice, too. I'm holding this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u449	At the request of Mr Stoffer, I propose his motion (35300-XV, No. 75). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u450	Thank you. Mr. Chairman. President. - The next item is the motion for a resolution by Mr Kuzu, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 78, about a differentiated fine. The law hasn't been filed yet. This one's been in consultation, and we're working on it right now. It is not just about the amount of the fine, but it must also make sense. I now join the fine level in the Arbo Act. I would ask Mr Kuzu to hold this motion until the law is passed. If he is going to put the motion to the vote, I must advise against it at this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u451	I am prepared to hold the motion, but the Secretary of State also knows that there are standard amounts in seven categories. €4,500 applies to category 5. There are also a category 6 and 7. I would like to inform the Secretary of State that he will then work on this in the preparation of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u452	At the request of Mr Kuzu, I propose his motion (35300-XV, No. 78). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u453	Then there is Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen's motion to item No. 79. I certainly want to look again at the approach in Scandinavia, but I will continue to report on biennials. That's why I don't recommend the motion. The Van Kooten-Ariës motion in part No. 80 is aboutzzp'ers and debt relief. The funds for poverty and debt are not earmarked. This is also a decentralised policy. There's certainly not a specific group in there either, so I advise against this motion. Then the motion by Mr Van Kooten-Ariës to part No. 83 on a pilot investigation into basic jobs. This could lead to displacement, but at the moment we already have the job deal. If you put the basic job next to it or opposite it, with another reward, it's gonna be really hard. It must also be organized by municipalities, so I advise against this motion. Mr. Chairman. I have another amendment tabled by Mr Jasper van Dijk to item No. 20. I'd advise against that. This has to do with the coverage, but also with the timeliness of this discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u454	I heard the Secretary of State right. That's why I'm willing to make the motion in part no. 70 to be retained.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u455	At the request of Mrs Van Brenn, I propose her motion (35300-XV, No. 70). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u456	In the second term, I had asked whether the Secretary of State was prepared to discuss again at the beginning of next year the problems I outlined, by Mr Karel, the 80-year-old in a residential care institution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u457	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u458	On the Van Kooten-Ariës motion to item No. 79. I hear the Secretary of State is really only about the reporting period. If you want to report in two years, the cabinet won't be here anymore, so that's weird. It is extremely important to reduce child poverty. What is reported at once a year?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u459	I'll keep the advice. It seems very easy, but it is the commitment that often lies at the town hall with the same person, whether you are busy reaching out to children or filling in reports. We've also made some extra efforts on the evaluation, so I'm maintaining the advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u460	You can just put the motion to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-10.u461	This brings us to the end of the debate on the budget. I thank the Minister and the Secretary of State. I would also like to thank the Members of Parliament. The officials have been thanked a few times. I would also like to thank all the members of the political groups who have supported the Members of Parliament in the course of the past period in dealing with the budgets and, of course, the Stenographic Service and the messengers. Thank you. Have I forgotten someone? The people who watched, thank you, too.
