ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-2.u1	Today we have four questions. The first question is from Mr Paternotte on behalf of D66 to the Secretary of State for Justice and Security, whom I would also like to welcome. The question is about the arrival at the Turkish Government of information on Turkish refugees. Mr. Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. "People are put in prisons and tortured. That happens without any kind of trial. I've known people who haven't been charged for three years. I am very worried about my family, because they have not yet been able to come to the Netherlands." That's what a fugitive said last Saturday at RTL. It was someone who wanted to remain anonymous because of the safety of his family. Of course, it is useful to investigate the background of asylum seekers on the ground. The Netherlands, like Germany, works together with a lawyer who received the personal data of hundreds of refugees. Now the Turkish authorities have confiscated the personal information of this refugee and of all the others. It is rausht of a lawyer who uses the Netherlands to investigate persons. Mr. Chairman. Tens of thousands of refugees, Kurds and supporters of the Gülen movement, come from Turkey to Europe for fear of what President Erdogan's regime wants to do to them. It is not for nothing that most of them, by far the most, get a residence permit here. Turkey is simply not safe from them. I have a lot of questions for the Secretary of State. First of all, how many Dutch files are involved? Do all these people have a residence permit now? How did this happen? Do you have all the facts in a row? How was this confidant accepted? Has he been screened? How are these files secured? As far as the Secretary of State is concerned, is there anything to blame for the IND? Mr. Chairman. This happened in September. Did the refugees in question receive a residence permit in September? Have any people been sent back whose personal data had been leaked? Why was the House of Representatives not informed about this event at the time? Has it been investigated whether there are any security risks to the relatives of these refugees? Are these family members being proactively approached now? Finally, Mr President. This is a country that has obtained confidential information from asylum seekers in the Netherlands. Has the Secretary of State been in contact with the Turkish Government or the Turkish Ambassador since September? And if not, why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-2.u3	I shall now give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-2.u4	Mr President, thank you. I hope that I have been able to write down all of Mr Paternotte's questions at this speed. If I forget to answer one, I hope he can fill me in. Mr. Chairman. A number of people require an individual post of office to verify that the data provided are correct. The same applies to Turkish asylum seekers. In the case of Turkish asylum seekers, it is sometimes necessary to check whether the data are correct. This will then be requested by means of an individual post of office. How did the IND get an individual post? That's an activity the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is taking care of. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is seeking a trusted person through the embassy in the country in question. It's not just Turkey. There are other countries where that happens. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs shall also determine the working arrangements. Then it goes like this. The IND transmits very concise data. It is not a total dossier at all, but a number of specific questions that we want to have on a particular dossier. That will be sent encrypted to the relevant embassy, in this case the embassy in Ankara. Next, the Foreign Office provides this again encrypted to the trusted person. Those concerned, people seeking asylum in the Netherlands and for whom an individual message of office is requested, will be informed by the IND that in their case an individual message of office will be requested. So they're aware of it. That concerns a limited number of people. In the last two years 70 cases have been asked for an individual report from Turks. Then the information comes back encrypted via Foreign Affairs to the IND so that the IND has the information it needs to be able to assess whether someone is actually eligible for asylum. Then there is the case that Mr Paternotte mentioned. In September, the person concerned was arrested by the Turkish police. The IND was informed at some point by Foreign Affairs, but the information on what was found with the person concerned by the Turkish authorities could not be established at all at that time. It took quite some time to find out if there were any vital files at the time. In the event that a person is hired by the Foreign Office as a trusted person, the data will be destroyed three months after the final completion of the file, as stipulated in the agreements with the trusted person. At the end of November/beginning of December, it became clear that some files were still vital and had not yet been closed. Then there was an immediate action and those who granted asylum were in order to prevent those concerned from getting into a very difficult situation. If there are follow-up travellers in such cases, they will be dealt with as a matter of priority.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-2.u5	The Secretary of State did not answer most of the questions. So I think it's a good thing this is happening. I asked if the security risks to the family and whether those family members were actively looked up. Should I now find out from the answers given by the Secretary of State that when one of the other confidential persons working with the embassy is removed information that can only be established two or three months later whether those files are vital and that we should do something for refugees? What then happens in the meantime to those data which are, therefore, long-standing in the hands of the Turkish Government, in order to ensure the safety of those people?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-2.u6	Mr. Chairman. I have tried to explain how the files are going with regard to the security risks. I have said that they are being sent encrypted and that they are only limited data provided for the individual ministry message. The data is sent encrypted to the State Department and the State Department gives them encrypted to the confidant. The family members of those concerned are not actively looked up, because we have only recently been informed of the files that might still be found with the person who was arrested and with the confidant. Foreign Affairs had a conversation with the person concerned, but unfortunately in the presence of Turkish authorities, so that a really intensive discussion about what data has been seized could not take place. As I said, we are actively working to ensure that the safety of those who might be affected is guaranteed as far as possible. We are working very hard to ensure that asylum applications are granted immediately. If there are followers, they will be dealt with as a matter of priority and will be dealt with as well. So we are doing everything we can to ensure that as many risks as possible are avoided for those who might be affected and that these people are safe.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-2.u7	Do I understand from this that the Netherlands first sat down with this lawyer and the Turkish Government, before it was established that there was information from refugees and that those refugees needed a residence permit to be safe? The question is therefore: have you been in contact with the Turkish Government or with the Turkish Embassy?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-2.u8	The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which has a contract with the confidant and which all regulates in the country concerned, Turkey, with the confidant, has had diplomatic contacts both in the Netherlands and in Turkey with the Turkish authorities and with the Turkish authorities.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-2.u9	I understand from the answers of the Secretary of State that after September there was still a lot to be known in the Netherlands and that there is still a lot to be known, for example about whether this confidential person has been screened and whether there are other confidential persons who currently have this kind of vital information from people. I would therefore ask the Secretary of State to also examine how we are going to deal with this in the future and to determine what has gone wrong here. Are we currently making the same mistakes with other contacts? Is the practice of individual official reports, of which this type of research is a part, still justified in Turkey? This is a country in which tens of thousands of people are detained without trial, all because of their political convictions or their Kurdish background. Can we therefore entrust information to Turkish lawyers in this way? And I would like to hear from the Secretary of State what lessons she draws from these events.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-2.u10	Mr. Chairman. About the lessons that... No, let me just say this first: there is one confidant. There are no multiple confidential agents contracted by Foreign Affairs in Turkey. That might be good to know. This confidant was apparently also someone who did this very well, because he did this not only for the Netherlands. Mr Paternotte also said that he did this for Germany and Norway. He had a lot of files going on. So it was just one person. But with regard to the lessons learned from this, I have to say that we are going to look very carefully at exactly what happened here and how this could have happened. How did it happen that a trusted person who does this sort of thing for so many countries in Europe is arrested and is, as has recently been shown, still in possession of a number of files, including from Dutch people who have applied for asylum in the Netherlands? How is that possible? How can we prevent that? And how can we best get the information that is needed to establish matters of someone who is asking for asylum and of whom we want further information? I think that's a point that we need to look closely at.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-2.u11	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-2.u12	Can the Secretary of State take a factual account of these events and send it to the House of Representatives as soon as possible, at least before the end of the ceremony? Can it at least now indicate exactly how many things are involved in the Netherlands? Did all these people get a stay award? And is she going to ensure that, as far as necessary, the families of those people are proactively approached to ensure that they are safe?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-2.u13	It concerns a very small number of people who were probably still dealing with open files with the confidant. Of the 70 people for whom an individual ministry has been requested in the last two years, 60 have been granted and 10 have not yet been granted. The 10 who have not yet been granted are also granted acutely, in order to avoid any risk of being the victim of this arrest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-2.u14	Thank you. Thank you, too, to Mr Paternotte. Then Mrs. Kuik on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-2.u15	Very serious. I would like to know how many requests there are of these 60 and later 70 requests. "Treat with priority" is not fast enough, because there is now an acute risk. That shows the situation with the lawyer who has now been arrested. I would like to know from the Secretary of State what the Netherlands is going to do for this lawyer, this confidant, who apparently was a target of the Turkish government.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-2.u16	The files of persons whose application for asylum has been granted following an individual notification in the last two years have been completed. Those files have been closed, as far as is known to the Foreign Office and now through the Foreign Office with us. So they've been destroyed. In principle, they must be destroyed according to the agreement with the trusted person. Whether that has indeed happened and how the factual situation...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-2.u17	That was not my question, Mr President!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-2.u18	I would like to explain to you, however, what is the situation with regard to the files that were there: that is a very small number of files and the files that have been dealt with. I have understood Mrs Kuik's question very well. She asked whether the followers of those 60 files have indeed travelled and, if not, whether they are in danger. I cannot give that answer exactly at this time. I will find out as soon as possible and let the Chamber know whether of the 60 files that have been processed and which have received an asylum permit are still travelers in Turkey.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-2.u19	So the Chamber will be informed in writing?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-2.u20	About those files. However, in the case of persons whose files are still open, it remains to be determined which files are concerned with the exact extent to which they relate to travellers. But we can also check that in itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-2.u21	There was another question about lawyer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-2.u22	Yeah, about the person himself, the confidant. The confidant was approached by the State Department at the time. He's got an agreement with the State Department. The post in Turkey is in contact with this person and handles it completely. The State Department is doing this for us. They're doing the files. The State Department maintains all contact with the confidant.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-2.u23	Mr. Van Ojik, don't you want to? Then I'll go to Mr. Grothuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-2.u24	I thought Mr Groothuizen was first, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-2.u25	Well, then he's first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-2.u26	I'm waiting neatly for my turn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-2.u27	That's very kind of Mr Van Ojik. I think I did get there first. This was a confidant who apparently did dozens of business for the Netherlands in recent years and who also worked for a number of other countries. We can see that there is increasing repression in Turkey. Then you'd expect to stand up to the light once in a while or be responsible for something. Especially when someone does a lot of business, you have to ask yourself if that person is not at risk of being watched. Is that right? Is the method such that it is regularly re-assessed whether it is still justified to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-2.u28	It is discussed regularly by the Foreign Office with this confidant, but also with other confidants in other countries, whether everything is still going as it should be, or whether the files are being destroyed after they have been processed and a three-month period has passed, etc. As far as my information from the Foreign Office is concerned, therefore, regular contact is sought with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-2.u29	The Netherlands has an excellent confidant in Turkey. The Secretary of State just said it. That person was arrested in September by the Turkish Government, who threw tens of thousands of people into prison without trial. I assume that immediately all the alarm bells started ringing with the Dutch government. What happened in September? What has the Netherlands done?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-2.u30	Again, this is a case that I, as Secretary of State for Justice and Security, have not received on my plate. It is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that has been informed about the arrest of this confidential person. And only in recent months has it become clear exactly what happened, how it happened and whether there are any vital files left open.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-2.u31	I know what happened. There is a confidant who has done excellent work for the Dutch government for many years, and the Secretary of State says that he has just been arrested by a Turkish government that has tens of thousands of people without trial in prison. That's what happened. The Secretary of State says it was Foreign Affairs. I know this answer from the Secretary of State. I've heard that in any way in the last few weeks. This Secretary of State speaks on behalf of the Dutch Government. I want to know what the Dutch Government did in September, when this excellent confidant of the Dutch Government was arrested by this cruel Turkish regime. That's what I want to know. The Secretary of State can't say that it was on the Foreign Office sign. The Secretary of State speaks on behalf of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-2.u32	I understand that Mr Van Ojik would like to know. I will look into that and I will send it to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-2.u33	Then I'd like to ask when that information will come to the Chamber. Mr Van Ojik has passed through his questions, but I know that it is important for Members of Parliament to know when they will receive information.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-2.u34	I am afraid to say that, because I suspect that there should also be contact with the Dutch embassy in Turkey. I can't promise you it's gonna work out for Christmas. I'm saying it's gonna work out in the middle of January.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-2.u35	That is what has been agreed, I say to Mr Van Ojik. I call Mrs Becker on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-2.u36	The people concerned have been brought to safety, because they have now received a permit in the Netherlands. But as a VVD, we have been worried about Ankara's long arm here in the Netherlands. Perhaps President Erdogan also has eyes and ears here, which can still ensure that these people in the Netherlands are not safe, because very sensitive information about them is known to the Turkish government. Can the Secretary of State and her colleague, the Minister for Justice and Security, see if the services in the Netherlands have sufficient information on these people, who may be unsafe? Can it ensure that those persons are brought to safety when necessary? Could she perhaps send a letter about how we are going to pick it up in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-2.u37	I agree with Mrs Becker that we must all take account of that long arm. The number of people seeking asylum from Turkey in the Netherlands is quite high. The best protection for these people is to grant asylum as we do in the Netherlands, with all the protection of the shelter and the opportunities offered by the Dutch State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-2.u38	Yes, I understand that, but we are dealing specifically with a group of people who we know have been given very sensitive information about them by the Turkish Government. This is not about all asylum seekers who have come from Turkey to the Netherlands. We know specifically from this group that they may be at extra risk, because the trusted person still had the information on him. Can the Secretary of State and her colleague responsible for security see if the services have the information of the IND and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs at their disposal to ensure the safety of these people in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-2.u39	I certainly want to get in touch with my colleague from the Ministry of Justice and Security. However, we should not exaggerate the question of the information from the trusted person about certain Turkish asylum seekers in the Netherlands either. There were also simply questions asked as where someone had lived and who someone had been a member of. I would like to admit to Mrs Becker that it can be very sensitive, but the information requested was very limited. There were also just questions for verification. There's never been a transfer of entire files. It was really about limited questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-17-tweedekamer-2.u40	Thank you.
