ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-6.u1	The next item is the goodbye to Mr De Lange of the VVD. I shall begin by reading Mr De Lange's letter. "Dear Mrs. Arib, dear Khadija, The city council of Wassenaar has proposed me to become mayor in the village where I was born 46 years ago. With the summer recess on the doorstep today is therefore an appropriate time to say goodbye to the House of Representatives. This year I have been active in politics and governance for 20 years. In the Netherlands you are never the boss: we feel at home in a country where power is shared in freedom. Governments need each other and work together to make our beautiful country a little better every day. As far as I'm concerned, it's always about people. It was therefore wonderful to contribute to a health care that revolves around the quality of life for people, in which deciding together has become the norm, and to work on a modern mental health care that focuses on recovery and participation. Despite political differences, it has been possible to measure this in good consultation with the Chamber and Cabinet. Good cooperation has also been achieved by all those involved in the Chamber of Representatives who ensure that we are able to practice our profession on a daily basis. Thanks for the support. Special attention is paid to all employees of the Registry, who support the Chamber in strengthening the knowledge position. I would also like to thank you and all my colleagues, the parliamentary press and all those people who took me to their world during many work visits. We can be very proud of all those professionals who work day and night for the Netherlands. I am also proud of the team VVD and my associate Tom Oostvogels. I like to pay attention to my wife and daughter, who regularly satisfied with the timing "I'll come back from The Hague." Furthermore, something to keep in mind in the coming years: Wassenaar is surprisingly close. Some parties are even hitting on a new Wassenaar Accord. So come by sometime; I'd like to show you a "just a special village." Good luck to you. Leendert de Lange"
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-6.u2	Dear Mr. De Lange, dear Leendert, I can't resist coming back to a sentence from your suicide note. You write that today, with the summer recess at the door, it is an appropriate time to say goodbye to the House of Representatives. You can already feel it coming: you shouldn't have written that down. Because the appropriate time to say goodbye to the Chamber is at the elections, not before the summer recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-6.u3	Having said that, I would like to say a few words to you. In 2015 you entered the Lower House. Over the past four years, you have been working as a Member of Parliament for mental health care, patient safety and e-health. These are subjects that are close to the people. For you, that's a condition for, or perhaps the core of, political enterprise. That's what you said in your maiden speech. In that same maiden speech, your liberal ideas also sounded loud and clear. You're known as someone who wants to control matter, who wants to measure, who wants to get a grip on the numbers of the U.S. Department. You're also known as a meticulous MP who had his files in order. It is this persistence that has ensured that the VWS Minister now sends mandatory progress reports to the Chamber, on the problem of the tight labour market in care. Dear Leendert. For 20 years, you've been active in politics and government. You said it in your suicide note: it's always about people in politics. You're leaving the Chamber now, but you're going back into local politics. You once had your own consulting firm called "Leendert listens." This slogan will certainly help you in your new position. I wish you good luck in Wassenaar and good luck.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-6.u4	Thank you for everything. Then we'll go to the votes. I believe that this is also the last vote by Mr De Lange. Before we vote, I have spotted someone in the Chamber, Mrs Sazias, who is back. Welcome! Thank you for coming, Mrs. Sazias.
