ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u1	The next item is the debate on the CENTCOM research report on the Hawija lunch attack. I would like to welcome the Minister of Defence, the Members and all those who are following this debate. Before I give the floor to Mrs Karabulut, I would like to mention some details of this debate, which differs in form from the usual debate. Mrs Karabulut will explain the questions she has put to her. It is not common for the interplelant to be interrupted at this stage. The Minister will then reply; I will not allow any interruptions here either. Following the Minister's reply, Mrs Karabulut was given the floor again, after which the other spokesmen followed. For the other spokesmen, this is the only deadline. So if you have any motions, they must be filed in this period. It is therefore one time-limit, in which, of course, it can be interrupted. I say in advance that I allow two interruptions: a starting point and a follow-up question or a total of four consecutive questions or separate from each other. I now give the floor to Mrs Karabulut on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u2	Mr. Chairman. We're back here for the third time. We are here because the Netherlands is responsible for a bombing of Hawija in Iraq in June 2015, because this has once again become unclear. Several sources report that between 70 and 170 civilians have been killed, by far the biggest drama in the recent history of the Dutch Air Force. It was like a nuclear explosion, witnesses say. During last month's debate, the Minister assured us that a final report by the CENTCOM coalition would never have been drawn up on this subject, a so-called close report. When De Nieuws BV asked about this on Radio 1 recently, there would suddenly be such a final report. Not now, the Minister said in her letter last night. There is a final report, the investigation of Hawija is closed, it is closed but the report is not a close report. A game of words, which we saw earlier when CENTCOM confirmed and again, after a call from the Netherlands, denied that 70 civilian deaths had occurred in Hawija. Why does the Minister tell us that there is no final report when she knows that the investigation has been closed for years? Is it true that the second CENTCOM study on Hawija is a so-called AR 15-6 report, a particularly heavy investigation? Is it usual for this to follow a close report? What does it say specifically in the second report on civilian casualties? What is the difference between this type of report and a close report? Mr. Chairman. The Minister states that the chart in an American defence report with over 70 confirmed civilian deaths in Iraq over the period May-July 2015 does not cover the deaths of Hawija. I'll show you the chart here, Mr. Chairman. It's a total peak and it can't be explained other than that these were the dead in Hawija. That is why the Minister's answer is so strange. After all, anyone who reviews CENTCOM's data must conclude that it concerns Hawija. That says Airwars, a very, very respected and professional NGO. If we are misinformed, the NGO wonders out loud. Can the Minister respond to this? How does she explain the peak in the graph? Where and when did CENTCOM report specifically these deaths? That really needs to be clarified. How is it possible, if that is true, that the deaths of Hawija were not included in the official CENTCOM count, not even one, as the minister states? What does that say about the count? That can't be right. This place stinks. Transparency must be ensured. This can be done by releasing CENTCOM's reports on Dutch involvement in the attack on Hawija. The Minister must advocate this to the Americans. Is that what she wants to do? I would point out that many CENTCOM reports have been released earlier. We need to get ours, too. Finally, I would like to hear all the Minister's answers to the 20 questions I have tabled earlier. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u3	Thank you, Mrs Karabulut. You can sit down again. I now give the floor to the Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u4	Thank you, Madam President. It is, of course, very annoying that there has been a lack of clarity as to whether or not there is a close report on the Dutch attack in Hawija in 2015. I agree with everyone that this is in nobody's interest. I would therefore like to briefly explain the substance of the matter and then answer the twenty questions put in writing by Mrs Karabulut. Let me start with the core. The core is, as indicated in the letter: there is no close report on Hawija. CENTCOM has confirmed that time and time again. There are two reports: firstly, the initial report and secondly, the report on the additional research into the targeting process. You were informed about this. That's all there is. We have taken further steps in the process, such as completing our own research, following the receipt of the second report and the announcement that this had been completed. Your Chamber was also informed of this by letter of 25 November. Then there is the second point. A specific number of victims have never been able to identify CENTCOM. This has also been confirmed several times by CENTCOM to us. Anyone in this Chamber, including Mrs Karabulut, can rest assured that if CENTCOM had been able to establish and confirm that, whether it was 7 or 70 or 170, all numbers going around, we will assume that. I'm telling you and the entire Chamber immediately. But I sail at CENTCOM and CENTCOM never confirmed those numbers. CENTCOM indicates in our direction that the civilian victims who are most likely to have fallen in Hawija are not part of the number of confirmed civilian casualties or graphs or confirmed numbers in any state. CENTCOM has not been able to confirm numbers. We've talked about that extensively. CENTCOM is ultimately responsible for reporting on civilian casualties and underlying data. We can only put the questions that are being asked. CENTCOM will then give the answers itself. That's what I wanted to start with, Mr. Chairman. I shall now turn to the questions asked in the interplay, starting with question 1. Is it true that there is a CENTCOM report dated 20 August 2015 and that it is a close report? No, that's not right. Then questions 2 to 4. How did the uncertainty arise? In the media report to which Mrs Karabulut refers, a CENTCOM press officer is quoted who says orally that a close report has been prepared. We have asked CENTCOM again this week at a very high military level. This showed that the press officer concerned was referring here to the report of the additional investigation into the targeting process, dated 20 August 2015. This is the report received by the Ministry of Defence on 22 January 2016. That is also a report known to the Chamber, because we informed your Chamber of this by letter of 25 November. As I mentioned earlier, there is no close report on Hawija. We had already asked for this in November. This week, CENTCOM has confirmed once again that a close report has never been prepared. The press officer should never have referred to a report here in this way, which was not at all a close report. After all, there is and remains no close report on Hawija. That is what is happening here, and that is what created the uncertainty about it. That is what questions 2 to 4. Then question five. Why hasn't there been a final report on civilian deaths? It must therefore be stated in advance that the investigation has indeed been completed. This was also heard on 22 January 2016 when we received the report of the additional research into the targeting process. CENTCOM then indicated that they considered the investigation to be closed. For the process after that, I say again: 'This signal was sufficient to go through the further steps in the process, such as completing our own investigation into the arms deployment.' When have you established and based on what information that a final report was missing? That's question six. On 22 January 2016, when we received the report of the additional investigation into the targeting process from CENTCOM, it was simultaneously verbally stated that CENTCOM considered the case to be closed. There was no reason to expect another close report to follow. So then we went through the further steps in the process ourselves. What did the investigation lead to? That's question 7. An investigation has indeed been carried out. This consists of two reports, which we have also received. The investigation of civilian casualties in Hawija was considered closed by CENTCOM following the additional investigation into the targeting process. The conclusion of the additional CENTCOM study was that there were "probable" civilian casualties in this attack carried out by the Netherlands. In the end, therefore, CENTCOM has never been able to accurately determine the number of civilian casualties. Has the Chamber been misinformed at this point? That is a question that Mrs Karabulut has just asked. No, the room hasn't been misinformed. The two reports we received on Hawija have been reported to you. There's never been a close report. Why was Question 9 and Question 10 not discussed again on 5 December? CENTCOM has indicated in our direction that because of the publicity that this attack has received here in the Netherlands, they have once again looked at how they have reported exactly on this in the monthly overviews. It was then discovered that there was never a final report of this file in the monthly review, although this should be done. CENTCOM therefore corrected a deficiency with the notification of 5 December by mentioning the completion of this investigation. I must say, however, that this may not be worthy of the beauty prize as far as I am concerned. This should have been done nicely much earlier, and should have been incorporated into the monthly review. Question 11. Did you formally or informally request CENTCOM to publish under the heading "Previously Assisted Credible Report"? We have not made such a request. How it is reported is ultimately an independent, independent process of CENTCOM. Question 12. Has there been any contact from your ministry with CENTCOM at any time with regard to the publication of the results of the study concluded on 20 August? Yes, we did. That's what I promised your room. After the last debate, we asked CENTCOM if the reports received could be made public. The answer to that was no, as expected. This type of report has a high classification, which is assigned by the US itself to the reports. I have already indicated to you in the debates on this subject that the Netherlands cannot, therefore, release these reports independently and independently. Why is the report of 5 December by CENTCOM not mentioning the number of deaths for the attack on Hawija? That's question 13. In the end, CENTCOM has never been able to accurately determine the number of civilian casualties. That's why that's not mentioned. Question 14 consists of two parts. I'd like to read them both, because the answers are different. The first part reads: Is it true that in 2017 CENTCOM points to 80 previously unrecorded civilian deaths in their monthly statements? And the second part is: does this include the dead in Hawija following the Dutch attack? On the first part, namely whether those 80 were recorded, I can say: yes, that's right. CENCTOM has informed us that these types of corrections are the result of checks that CENTCOM regularly carries out on its own reports on civilian casualties. The second part of the question is whether it is true that these are the Hajijas victims. No, that's not right. It cannot be the civilian victims who were most likely killed in the attack in Hawija. CENTCOM has never, in response to a previous question, been able to accurately determine the number of civilian casualties. CENTCOM has indicated earlier in our direction that the civilian victims who are most likely to have fallen in Hawija are not part of the total number of civilian victims confirmed by CENTCOM. Question 15. Is it true that CENTCOM included the deaths from the Dutch attack in Hawija in its own count of civilian deaths, currently 1.347? The answer is no. CENTCOM has never been able to accurately determine the number of civilian casualties caused by the Dutch arms deployment on the night of 2 to 3 June in Hawija. CENTCOM has pointed out once again in our direction that, because of the fact that this has never been confirmed, the civilian victims who are most likely involved in this deployment are not part of the total number of 1,347 confirmed civilian casualties by CENTCOM. Question 16. How is it possible that CENTCOM first reports that 70 civilian deaths have occurred, but can no longer clarify this later? This has been discussed extensively in the debate that has been held here in the Chamber. We have, of course, taken action towards CENTCOM on the basis of the reports that emerged at the time. We also gave you the confirmation of CENTCOM in this House of Representatives, with an e-mail, which has never been established. Question 17. Can all CENTCOM reports on Dutch attacks involving potential civilian casualties be shared with the Chamber and, if not, why not? After the last debate, I have just said it in another question, and we asked CENTCOM whether the reports received could be made public. The answer to this question was no, and that was our expectation. You know that we also discussed this in the previous debate. I have already indicated to you in the debates that these are classified reports by the Americans and it is not up to the Netherlands to make these independent reports public. It is true that the US itself is one of the reports that Mrs Karabulut has just raised, but of course I could not quite see that being a classified version of Mosul's close report. You can also see that on the website of The New York Times. Question 18. If the CENTCOM reports are confidential, is it possible to observe them confidentially, possibly classified? Here too, I have to say that I have already indicated in the debate that these are reports classified by the Americans and that it is not up to the Netherlands to make these independent reports public. So I can't just offer these reports confidentially without consulting the US. It is true that a report on Mosul has been released. I could inform CENTCOM whether confidential access is possible, but here too I consider the opportunity to be very limited, because we have been informed on several occasions after the previous debates. But I'm willing to do that. Experience really shows that they are very reluctant about this. Question 19, Mr President, the one-after-last question. Do other parliaments of other coalition countries have access to the CENTCOM reports? We don't have a visual on this. Of course, I can always include this question in the conversations I have with CENTCOM, but I can't see it. Then there's the last question. Did you request CENTCOM to release the reports on the Dutch attacks? That question continues with "if no," but the answer is yes. Yes, I requested that. I have already indicated this to you in the reply to Question 12. I promised that to your Chamber, by the way, I believe in a question from Mrs Belhaj, but I am not quite sure anymore. After the last debate, we asked CENTCOM whether the reports received could be made public. The answer to that was no, as expected. These reports have a high classification and we cannot release them ourselves. Apart from these interplay questions, Mrs Karabulut had one more question that was not included in the interplay questions: is it true that the second report is the After Action Report 15-6 and what does it say about civilian casualties? That's what she just asked verbally. That's right. The answer to this is yes. That's the report. This contains internal recommendations for future arms deployment. This report also provides a statement on the likelihood of civilian casualties. The conclusion of this report was what we also wrote in the letter, namely that it was "probable" or likely that civilian casualties had occurred. Here again, the number is not confirmed. Those are my answers, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u5	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u6	I now give the floor to Mrs Karabulut on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u7	Mr. Chairman. I told you, this place stinks. Let's name the good news first. In any case, I am pleased that the Minister acknowledges that there are two reports and that the investigation into civilian casualties in Hawija has been closed. It states that the number of civilian casualties cannot be accurately determined, but I would like, after all the words games, confirmations and then denials, as the first of the Minister, to hear an acknowledgement that civilian casualties, many civilian casualties have been suffered in Hawija. Mr. Chairman. The second thing I was wondering is this. There has been a very high-level call from CENTCOM, again recently, to ask for clarification. Can the Minister tell us exactly what was asked of CENTCOM in that conversation and who was talked to about it? Because, as you know, the previous discussion we had with the Prime Minister on this subject led to a note from CENTCOM which would show that it was not at all confirmed and that the previous confirmation to the NIS and the NRC and also the earlier confirmation by this Minister of Defence that civilian casualties were being committed were all completely vague, that all this was unknown. Because recently, just now, I received the following message. Contrary to what the Minister of Defence claims in this debate, namely that the 70 civilian casualties would not be part of the total number of victims and that this would not have been confirmed by the Americans, that is the case. It's on the NOS site now. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to ask the Minister if she can prove that the 70 civilian casualties, as recorded in the Pentagon's Defense Graph, do not concern Hawija. Because I have here the proof that that Hawija is, Hawija must be. It can't be any other way, on June 3, 2015, with the number of 70 confirmed deaths. That would mean that we are indeed, for whatever reason, misinformed. So if the Minister says "this is not right," then I want to hear from the Minister the evidence, and especially see, that this is not about Hawija in Iraq.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u8	Mrs Karabulut and I have often spoken about that number of 70. Of course, every victim is too many, but in wars it is almost impossible to actually determine how many people have died. Mrs Karabulut states here that she knows exactly that there are 70 of them and that this is actually provable. Based on what?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u9	These are civilian numbers confirmed by CENTCOM, by the American command center. What Airwars has done is that you may have gotten that message, and you can study that. You can see exactly where those attacks were in those three months. The minister says on the basis of the peak in that table: "That is not true. That's not Iraq. That's not Hawija." A very large part of the attacks were in Syria. In a number of attacks in Iraq there was a very low number: 6, 0 and 0. On one June 3rd, the number was 70. What conclusion would you draw, Mr. Bosman?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u10	Mrs Karabulut says that CENTCOM has exactly the number of 70, but each time CENTCOM indicates that they cannot confirm that. That is a formal statement by a formal organisation, which says every time: we cannot formally confirm that. Again, it's not about the number, it's about the fact that it doesn't have to be exactly that number to make it very bad. That's my point every time. If Mrs Karabulut continues to complain about the 70 years, it must be exactly 70 years old, when it is said every time by recognized institutions that this cannot be confirmed, then I find it difficult to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u11	I find it truly incredible what Mr Bosman is doing. I would like to hear the following from Mr Bosman here once and for all. Do you recognise that many dozens of victims may have fallen, perhaps 50, maybe 60, maybe 100, maybe 150? Do you recognize that? And are you fighting with me for us to get the facts up, instead of pulling up a whole smokescreen? We want people to know the truth, that the victims will finally get recognition and that the military will be able to tell us exactly what happened, rather than having to call CENTCOM every time and that unpleasant facts are being covered up. 'Cause then we'll get on with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u12	What's starting to bother me is that Mrs. Karabulut isn't listening. I have said over and over again that there have been casualties. I've said over and over that the number can't be mentioned. It is indeed, as the Minister also points out, between 70 and 170. I just said that in every debate. So if Mrs Karabulut just listens to her colleagues for once and she doesn't try to take them down with all kinds of bullshit, that would help the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u13	I listen very carefully to Mr. Bosman. I'm listening very carefully. I am genuinely pleased to hear that the VVD now also recognises the many dozen civilian casualties. I would like to tell Mr Bosman the following. First, there's recognition. It is confirmed several times at a high level to the NRC. It is then confirmed by the Minister. But then, in a later debate with the Prime Minister, after a call, it is denied. Last night we received a letter with a table stating: it is 70, but that has nothing to do with Hawija; it is not in the total number of civilian casualties confirmed by the Americans. But now it appears to have been the case. How would you feel about that? If you look back on this whole process, from 2015 until now, what do you think? I really do listen to you, but we also need to be honest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u14	Good. Mr Bosman will be coming up with his own contribution. Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u15	Mr President, I was addressed in person again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u16	Yes, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u17	It's like the VVD's just getting recognition now. That's incorrect. That is, once again, wrong. I'd like to correct that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u18	You did.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u19	The VVD has already indicated that we are concerned about this, that the numbers are unknown and that they are between 70 and 170. That didn't just happen now. That's happened a long time ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u20	Then you clarified this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u21	At least I like that. But, of course, I base myself on the statements made by the Prime Minister, who, after the last debate, dismissed all of this as rumors. The Prime Minister, the boss of this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u22	Mr. Bosman, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u23	Mr. Chairman. If Mrs. Karabulut keeps telling nonsense, I'll keep coming to the interrupting microphone to recover. It seems that this is necessary for Mrs Karabulut, because this nonsense is repeated every time, and that lingers. That bothers me, and it's unnecessary. This undermines what we want to achieve. It undermines Mrs Karabulut's story and does wrong to colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u24	You have made this point clear. Actually, I'd like to suggest...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u25	Mr. Chairman. I would just like to point out that these statements can be found in the media...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u26	You've already done that, so I suggest...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u27	... and that the texts of the debates can be read.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u28	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u29	However, I would like the Minister to conclave with the Americans and do everything in his power to release the existing reports, in order to clarify once and for all. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that contradictory communications have been made about CENTCOM's reports on Dutch involvement in civilian casualties in Hawija, Iraq, in the fight against Islamic State, thus remaining unclear;]] [[considers that these CENTCOM reports should be transparent;]] [[noting that all kinds of CENTCOM reports have been released previously;]] [[calls on the Government to submit requests for the release of the CENTCOM reports on the possible involvement of the Netherlands in civilian casualties in Hawija in the fight against Islamic State,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35363-1]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u30	Thank you, Mrs Karabulut. I now give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u31	Mr. Chairman. 1,347 civilian casualties, which was just on the NOS page. 1,347 lives that have been taken, families that have been torn apart, a great disgrace to the commitment we are making. It is all the more painful because we have just had a general consultation in which we continue to extend the mission, the Dutch commitment in Iraq, for the years 2020 and 2021. The Dutch commitment has not contributed to much good. Over the past few weeks, over the past few months, we've seen a lot of twitching, a lot of conflicting information. The concerns of the group of DENK about the fickleness of and the contradiction in the Minister's replies to CENTC0M, in relation to the American intelligence, are still standing. They are indeed word games, as Mrs Karabulut rightly pointed out. It may then be that on the cover of the Close Report it does not say that it is a Close Report, but we do not know whether it is actually close in the content of the report. No, I'm not done yet, but I see Mr. Van Helvert standing there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u32	I know, but I thought maybe you'd finish your sentence. Mr Van Helvert.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u33	I believe that this interplay debate has been requested in the context of whether the Minister has misinformed the Chamber. We all know by now, even before that, that this is not the case. Now we see that a number of other issues are being raised. Now Mr Kuzu says on behalf of DENK that the Dutch commitment in Iraq has not brought much good. Then you can say, if I don't say anything about it, it'll fly by, but I don't think I can. For our women and men of the armed forces have been there as a kind of allied people, thousands and thousands of Iraqis, liberating. Thousands of people. Students who now demonstrate are liberated. Women, Christians, Turkmen, Kurds, they are all liberated, also thanks to the Dutch. Even with the bombing that we are talking about, which unfortunately is very likely to have affected civilian casualties. That's why people were saved because a gun factory was destroyed where else...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u34	All right, yeah...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u35	Excuse me, Madam President, you need to... This is very serious what is being said here. So I'd like to finish this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u36	Well...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u37	So it is said here that the commitment of the Netherlands has not brought much good. Thousands and thousands of people have been liberated, including by our people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u38	You made that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u39	It is true that a war is not a movie, like in a cinema, where America invades and after 1 hour and 56 minutes has won the battle. War goes with ups and very deep downs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u40	You made that clear, Mr. Van Helvert.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u41	But it can't be that a MP here says that the commitment of the Netherlands didn't bring much good if it saved so many people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u42	Mr Van Helvert knows like no other since 2003, the war on terror, and then following the report by the Davids Committee, that we should not have intervened with the science of that time. This intervention has only further strengthened the spiral of violence and we are still reaping the bitter fruits of it. We've destabilized a region. We have destroyed many families and families through Western intervention in the Middle East. Mr President, if that cannot be said in this Chamber, if I am not allowed to express that feeling, then I, as a representative of the people, am not worth a slap in the face. I understand very well that Mr Van Helvert has to defend the commitment he wanted to make at the time. But I am a Member of Parliament, I am a representative of the people, I am a different consideration from Mr Van Helvert.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u43	Yeah, but wait a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u44	And, Mr President, I would like to make this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u45	You did.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u46	I have just seen it in Mr Bosman's use of words, namely that a colleague is accused of complaining about civilian casualties, that 'nonsense' is being told and that kind of word is being used. I do not think that is worthy of the debate. We can use a lot of words here, but colleagues are saying that something should not be said or that it should be said in another way, which makes Mr Bosman very small. And Mr Van Helvert is very well on track.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u47	Good. You will have the floor in a moment, but I would like to remind you that this debate is an interplay debate on the CENTCOM research report. I ask you all to abide by that. You, too, Mr. Van Helvert, you too, Mr. Bosman, and you too, Mrs. Karabulut. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u48	The Minister just stated in her replies that the Dutch Government cannot release this information independently. I wonder what the possibilities are. The United States needs to be consulted. The Minister has also made a very clear statement that she has made a number of requests for this. What is the reason for the Americans not to release that information? I do want an answer to that, because perhaps that way we will have an entrance to ensure that the desired information comes out. Mr. Chairman. I find it strange and very striking that such important information is being brought out in such a careless manner. I heard a CENTCOM spokesperson say very clearly " Yes. The close report itself is currently classified. But it did produce a close report back in August 20th." Those are very clear words. The interviewer asks "together with the closure of the investigation?', And CENTCOM's spokesman says "yes" quite clearly. Then a few days later, when I see a letter from the Minister indicating that it was a little careless, it does not make the story more credible. I'd like a clear answer from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come to my final questions. The Minister has made several attempts to make the final report public. The Minister has indicated that she has made a request to the United States, but I wonder how often the Minister has asked for it. Can the Minister indicate the similarity of the report confirmed by the CENTCOM spokesman with the close report prepared for Mosul? That's public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u49	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u50	Thank you, Mr President. Here we are again. It's the message you knew it was coming. According to CENTCOM there was a report, there were even two, but Minister Bijleveld insists that there is never a close report on Hawija. According to the Minister, the two reports are different reports. Once again, it threatens to become a debate with endless talk of information and a minister who is becoming increasingly entangled in lies and distortions. What surprises will the Minister treat us to today? Is she still gonna pull a CENTCOM report out of her desk drawer and distribute it around? There is a lack of openness, very poor information to the Chamber, twisted and a minister who wants to sit at all costs. There is always pointing to others. Now it is the fault of the press officer of CENTCOM, who apparently wrongly says that the final report was completed on 20 August 2015. The Chamber is so lame and has to do with the information that is or is not provided. Will the Minister resign if we catch her in a lie or withholding information? How does the Minister respond to the news from the NIS, which says that the civilian deaths in Hawija have been counted for a year and a half, as is now on-line? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u51	Thank you, Mrs Van Kooten. I now give the floor to Mrs Belhaj, on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u52	Mr. Chairman. Since the beginning of the mission, the Chamber, in particular my party and the SP, has been calling for transparency around civilian deaths, not because of tortious acts or because our pilots are to blame, but because we are convinced of the importance of public transparency and accountability over civilian deaths in military missions. This is part of a full democracy. We therefore call for openness and transparency, even when it comes to bad news. Mr. Chairman. Last week, the conversation between the journalist of De Nieuws BV and CENTCOM showed that there is indeed a close report. In addition, CENTCOM stated in that interview that an AR 15-6 study was also carried out. The latter is crucial. An Army Regulation 15-6 investigation is a deep, formal investigation. The results or their existence have never been shared with the Chamber. My question to the Minister is: what investigations did CENTCOM share with your ministry at what time? What other investigations have the United States shared with your Ministry on Hawija? Did your ministry know about the existence of an Army Regulation 15-6 investigation? Then why didn't we get it? The misunderstanding is that you indicate that there are two reports, one from August and one from January. I think that this conversation between CENTCOM and De Nieuws BV is about that research AR 15-6, which is indeed closed and was therefore a close report and was in between the other two reports. My question is whether you recognise that, because that is crucial. Not only the Chamber, but also all those involved, the relatives and the community in question are entitled to the truth. CENTCOM has revealed several AR 15-6-reports. CENTCOM has previously published several close reports and investigations. I would ask the Minister to speak to CENTCOM and ask them to share all reports on Hawija with the Chamber, whether or not they are confidential. There's already a motion from the SP on this one. Then I ask whether that report cannot be shared because it is not a close report. So what's the reason there's no close report? Is that because the Netherlands still has to provide information itself? The Americans are incredibly careful with such matters. Note bene on such a serious matter is chosen not to close and that gives an uncomfortable feeling. I therefore have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the CENTCOM considered that additional research was necessary, but that the CENTCOM never came to a close report;]] [[Whereas, where there is a suspicion of civilian casualties, CENTCOM concludes the investigation with a final report, the so-called close report;]] [[calls on the government to ask CENTCOM to come up with a so-called close report,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Belhaj. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35363-2]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u53	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I therefore call on the Minister to give further clarification to the Chamber on the process. For what reason isn't that closed? That's just really weird.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u54	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u55	You're welcome, Mr. Chairman. I'm glad you appreciated it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u56	Good. I now give the floor to Mrs Diks on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u57	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today, for the third time in two months, we are talking about the Dutch bombing of Hawija, where probably more than 70 civilian casualties are still unclear. If I listen carefully to the Minister's answers, she says that CENTCOM's actions do not deserve the beauty prize. And I agree with her. I would like to ask the Minister what the hell is going on with the exchange of information between CENTCOM and the Ministry of Defence. After all, CENTCOM was and is responsible for investigating all cases of potential civilian casualties caused by coalition intervention. Previously, journalists received incorrect information from CENTCOM, and now it seems to have happened again with the announcement that there would be a final report. It all sounds rather careless and chaotic to me. Or should I perhaps understand that CENTCOM does not take the Dutch Ministry of Defence seriously enough to inform it adequately? Why didn't the Ministry of Defence call for a final report after CENTCOM's oral statement that it would remain so? The number of deaths is also likely to be large. Can the Minister respond to the statements made by Colonel Myles Caggins, the spokesperson of the anti-ISIS mission, who now, as we speak, confirms to NOS and NRC that CENTCOM has counted those 70 civilian deaths in Hawija for years? What does this messy course of action mean for the future? Does the Minister herself think she can still rely on information from CENTCOM? As far as GroenLinks is concerned, we need to learn lessons from this terrible case and make better arrangements in the future about sharing information and doing research into incidents in our international coalitions. This must be done in order to do justice to the victims and their families in Hawija, but also because of the extension of the anti-ISIS mission, which the Chamber will be discussing later today. The key to this is clear agreements on clear information between the coalition partners. If the Netherlands decides to use its military forces in a coalition, then that good information exchange between coalition partners must be ready and ready. The Chamber, the Ministry of Defence and especially the deployed military and their home fronts must be able to rely on that. To secure that, I'm filing a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, as regards civilian casualties in the Dutch bombing of Hawija, confusing and incomplete information was provided by CENTCOM, including failure to draw up a final report;]] [[Whereas it is essential that the Netherlands should always be able to rely on timely and correct information from the central leadership of that coalition in military engagement in the context of an international coalition;]] [[calls on the Government to make clear agreements on the investigation of, and report on, incidents involving the Netherlands in coalition military deployment, always to draw up written conclusions on this matter and to share them with the Chamber, and to actively monitor compliance with these agreements,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Diks. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35363-3]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Indeed, we have had a lot of debates on the military deployment of the Netherlands during the night of 2 to 3 July 2015. We've had debates about civilian casualties. In it, the Minister apologized for communicating with the Chamber in the past. There have also been lessons learned in the area of transparency. That's very good. It is also a good thing that the Minister for Transparency has given the floor right away. Now there was confusion due to an interview that a spokesperson of that very large institute had CENTCOM with a Dutch journalist. The spokesperson spoke about a final report by CENTCOM on the Dutch commitment and the civilian deaths in the night of 2 to 3 June 2015. By the way, questioning directly indicated that this was an incorrect statement by CENTCOM and that therefore the Minister had not misinformed. That was the reason for this debate, and that at least made it clear. We also see this with all the spokesmen, who are still very angry or dissatisfied with a lot of other things in this debate. That's okay, too. But what the debate has been asked for is no longer unclear about: the Minister has not misinformed. If CENTCOM is communicating wrongly, it is very bad and extremely annoying, for the next of kin, but also for our pilots, and also for the Chamber, because we have to check it out. That's not the Minister's responsibility, but it's annoying. If CENTCOM demands that reports be confidential, then we cannot agree, but then you cannot ask the Cabinet to do so. If CENTCOM comes back to earlier statements, for the second time now... A colonel did that once, and now a spokesperson has said something wrong. And twice CENTCOM must say: oh, that was not the intention. If CENTCOM comes back to earlier statements, it is very annoying and very bad, but then you cannot blame the cabinet. I do think that as a Chamber we can inform CENTCOM that we are very displeased with the way in which they communicate on such matters. Because if they are communicating wrongly about reports involving civilian deaths, then there must be extremely accurate communication about them. That is what we have demanded from our Minister, Mr President-in-Office, and she has also apologized for not having done so at the time, but that is what we also demand from CENTCOM. I would therefore like to ask the President whether the President is prepared to send a letter to CENTCOM on behalf of the Chamber, to inform CENTCOM that the House of Representatives considers it extremely important that if there are reports concerning the Dutch commitment involving civilian deaths, then we demand very precise communication. I would like to ask what the President of the Chamber is like. Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the answers he has given. I think it's a good thing that we have clear that there is no wrong communication. I think we are still waiting for the research that the Minister promised in the previous debate and which is related to the compensation to the next of kin, because it is very important that this happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u59	I would like to hear from Mr Van Helvert what he thinks of the following. He says the minister didn't misinformed. But now there appear to be two reports, one of which is a report with a very extensive report in a very heavy form, while last time, in the last debate, the Prime Minister and the Minister indicated that it was impossible to establish at all, was unclear et cetera et cetera. What does Mr Van Helvert think about the fact that the Americans are now saying loud and clear: 'That's right. The number is also in the total number of civilian casualties"? How does he feel about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u60	I see in the course of events that CENTCOM gives information to the Ministry. On that basis, we take decisions. By the way, not only the Netherlands, but several countries make much, or actually only use the information of CENTCOM. Mrs Karabulut also brings in other sources, of which CENTCOM says we know them, but we cannot verify them. Then those sources may still exist, but as long as they cannot be verified, we cannot use them here in the Chamber and also in the Ministry as the truth. Of course, it is the SP's choice to continue to proclaim it here as the fully valid truth. That may be so, but if the same SP takes words in its mouth as "word games," I think that's an example of that. Because the Minister says quite clearly: "We are getting information from CENTCOM. We are also dependent on this, and on that basis we make considerations."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u61	I'm not saying anything here. All I'm going to mention and predict are figures and tables with a peak in June 2015 in Iraq of CENTCOM itself. I'm not making it up. I'm not saying anything. I just want to make it clear. It was later denied. Now it's confirmed. I would like to ask Mr Van Helvert whether he agrees with me that we should first of all clarify what is in the existing reports. We must insist that the cabinet does that. We also need to know at what point and who has been in contact with CENTCOM. We need to be clear about the government's commitment. Does Mr Van Helvert agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u62	No, I disagree with Mrs Karabulut. CENTCOM has indeed quoted many public sources, with peaks in them and even figures in the number of civilian deaths, but at the same time it has said that they are not verifiable for us, so we pass this conclusion on to the Minister of Defence in the Netherlands, and that conclusion is that it is very likely that civilian deaths have occurred, but that it is not possible to establish how many.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u63	Your third question, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u64	But these are just civilian casualties determined by CENTCOM. The fact that it is all not accurate and that they use a particular method is verse two, but these are established numbers of civilian casualties which they report, just for the coalition partners. It is the responsibility of our country, of the Netherlands, to publish and communicate about it. Or would Mr Van Helvert now say that the Pentagon is also spreading false information and that it is the Pentagon that is possibly disinforming us?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u65	On the basis of a number of sources, public sources, research that they can do themselves, CENTCOM gives a conclusion to the Minister of Defence, to the Dutch cabinet. There are a lot of sources behind this that call figures, which give peaks and valleys, which give number of victims. Then CENTCOM says: some of them we can verify and some we can't, and this is our conclusion. And...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u66	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u67	... on the basis of that conclusion, the Cabinet shall take a decision. So those sources are there, but CENTCOM says we can't verify them. If they see certain figures somewhere in a report and if the cabinet asks if they can verify them, or they can determine how many civilian casualties there are, CENTCOM says on the basis of their own documents: no, we can't. Then we take the final conclusion of CENTCOM, which has been looked at most often, as a conclusion; fortunately, the Minister does so. I think that is quite right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u68	Thank you, Mr. Van Helvert. I now give the floor to Mr Kerstens on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u69	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Sometimes on the outside you can't immediately see whether there is a conscious strategy or a chain of crafts. But it has to be said: if you have to show up here three times in a short time as Minister, that certainly looks clumsy. Once again, the Minister is here because it is unclear whether or not there is a final report on the attack on Hawija and what that says or does not say about the likely number of civilian casualties involved. At first there was such a report, then again not, now perhaps again, or not. At first, the Minister himself mentioned the number of victims, then not, then again, or not. What does it say that apparently there is such a difference of opinion between the American armed forces, between CENTCOM, and ours? And if there is no difference of opinion, at least there is a lot of miscommunication, with a spokesperson who maintains to this day that 70 victims have been killed, while the Minister says that the number cannot be determined. Apparently, a number of high-ranking soldiers from the U.S. military say that it's America that has been pressured by a number of allies to not bring out details of attacks, while the minister claims that the CENTCOM is on his reports and doesn't release them. Moreover, regarding the provision of these reports by CENTCOM to the Dutch defence, in confidentiality, the Minister indicated that she could consult the United States on this. My question is then: why has the Minister not done so in recent times, when there was so much uncertainty? Is she willing to do that after all? Mr. Chairman. Information about attacks during missions, about whom they were carried out and whether or not they were victims, can now be found in various places on the Internet and in the newspaper, including on the CENTCOM website itself. Even if this leads to the conclusion that the Netherlands is involved in such an attack, it seems as if Defence is holding its jaws together to this day. In my view, this is difficult to reconcile with the greater transparency which the Minister says he stands for on every occasion. The more the minister says how transparent she is, the more unclear there seems to be. Of course, that is not an invitation to be less transparent again, but it is a call for action.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u70	Thank you, Mr. Christmas. I now give the floor to Mr Stoffer on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u71	Mr. Chairman. In the night of 2 to 3 June 2015 there was a Dutch arms deployment in Hawija. I think it is quite clear that it is very likely that civilian casualties have occurred. That's terrible. The question before us this afternoon is whether or not CENTCOM has prepared a close report on this issue? Mrs Karabulut says she is almost certain and the Minister says she is not. A lot of questions have been asked by colleagues. I'm very curious about the answers that are coming. I would like to add the following question: if this report were to be there, I am not saying anything about whether or not it is there, what would be the difference? What difference would this make? What would be going on? I hope the Minister can answer that. I'll leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u72	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. I now give the floor to Mr Bosman on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u73	Mr. Chairman. There we are again, but we do it ourselves. We'll ask for it ourselves. We could have just asked for a letter. I think there is a very clear and clear letter with answers. If you look back at what we're discussing right now, this is flawless in the letter. Anyway, that's a choice from the Chamber. The majority asked for it, so we're back here. We shouldn't pretend it's happening all of a sudden. No, we'll do it ourselves. We're responsible for it ourselves. Mr. Chairman. CENTCOM has a responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u74	Of course, any Member of Parliament is free to comment on the type of debate, but I almost have the impression that Mr Bosman did not understand why we are standing here at once. A message has come out, which includes the report on which I asked the Minister, that AR 15-6 report. That report by the journalist on CENTCOM refers to this as a close report. I think this is a legitimate reason to debate it here. Do you agree with me that we did not have that information before and that it is extremely relevant to get those answers after all?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u75	I'm just saying we could have done this by letter. That's all I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u76	But the debate has already been agreed and you are in. So I'd say, come!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u77	Yeah, so I'm just in.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u78	Let me finish the remark. We got that letter, but the report I'm referring to isn't in that letter. So, in any case, there is reason to have this debate and to ask these questions, but you do not seem to think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u79	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u80	It is good if CENTCOM comes up with unambiguous information. I am pleased that the Minister also indicated this and reported it to CENTCOM. It is useful for communication, but it is indeed, as previous colleagues have said, better for everyone that we are talking about the same definition: what kind of report is it, where does the report come from and how is the report assessed?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u81	It is, of course, unnecessary to mention that every Member of Parliament is free not to take part in debates. However, I am very pleased that Mr Bosman is standing here, because I would like to get a response from Mr Bosman to the Prime Minister's remarks after the last debate, that the 70 civilian casualties are a rumor and that it is not a relevant figure, especially now that a spokesperson from the American CENTCOM, headquarters, has confirmed that the 70 civilian deaths have been recognised and included in the statistics for at least one and a half years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u82	Now there are a lot of things going together. In principle, a letter from CENTCOM states that it is not a fixed number. It just came from CENTCOM. In fact, in the last debate and in the mail it is clearly acknowledged that it is not a fixed number. But what bothers me is this. I regret that we are debating the numbers here. Because by mentioning some, you're pretending this is a whole clinical operation. This is way worse than a clinical operation. Every victim is one too many. Whether it's 70 or 170, there's too many. But by pretending it's exactly 69, or 70, or 71, we make it a clinical story. I'm seriously opposed to that. In fact, everyone says: there is no hard number to name. Only Mrs Karabulut has hard figures.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u83	One last comment or one last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u84	Just so we're clear, I'm not making a big deal. I quote the Prime Minister and...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u85	You may clarify.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u86	I quote the Prime Minister and CENTCOM. CENTCOM had written a note for the Prime Minister in which they denied it, and now they confirm it again. What do you think of that? What do you think of the statements made by the Prime Minister, who is indeed talking about this very big incident as a rumor and not a relevant number?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u87	Exactly the same. In that I support the Prime Minister, who says: boys, they are victims. The debate on the figures continues, Mrs Karabulut. And that really bothers me. This is just a discussion you shouldn't have that way. The essence of it is that there have been casualties. Of course there have been casualties. We have acknowledged that, several times. In 2018, a letter has already been sent from the Public Prosecutor's Office. It's been investigated, it's been investigated into legality. Fortunately, everyone in the Chamber also says that it was legitimate, that the kite is not to be blamed. And that's essential in this story.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u88	Okay, then I suggest you move on. No, no, no, Mrs. Karabulut. No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u89	Then I'll finish with the story I put here. There is no one who denies that victims have been killed, but an exact number cannot be given. And that is often the case in an area of deployment. It is naive to think that there are always exact numbers to give of victims. In fact, that's the saddest and worst thing in a situation: that you can't clarify the number of victims that have fallen. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u90	Mrs. Diks has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u91	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm sure Mr. Bosman would be of use to me. I have just indicated in my first term that Colonel Caggings, now the spokesperson for the anti-ISIS mission, has said that CENTCOM has counted the 70 civilian deaths in Hawija for years. So I'm curious to see what you're looking at. How do you assess Colonel Caggings' comment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u92	I base myself on the information I have actually received from CENTCOM. In the last debate, there has just been a letter stating how they deal with it, that they cannot say with absolute certainty that the 70 are there. I don't know who this colonel is, what he knows about and where...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u93	That's the spokesperson for the mission. So that's not unimportant.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u94	But I think that CENTCOM is basically the one who deals with the speech. Right? Our spokesperson for the VVD also does not say what GroenLinks should think. Right? It would help.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u95	You're straying a little bit. Mrs Diks, your second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u96	The second question I have to ask Mr Bosman is: how do you assess from your position the cooperation between CENTCOM and the Ministry of Defence?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u97	I am very pleased that the Minister has made a very clear statement, also towards CENTCOM: boys, if you give information to anyone, use the same text for the same report everywhere. Because there's nothing more annoying than when someone thinks "oh, this is the last report; let me call it a final report," while the following says: someone has said "final report," but we can also call it a close report. I find it disturbing when we start confusing definitions of this kind. I know that colleagues have also called for this in a motion, but I think the Minister has already indicated it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u98	Mrs. Diks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u99	I had a follow-up question, and I'd like to ask it as well. Do you have the idea, I ask Mr Bosman, that the Dutch Ministry of Defence is taken seriously by CENTCOM?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u100	Yeah, I think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u101	I was just thinking, do I have to interrupt or not? Why is Mr. Bosman standing here with such a hurray mood to lecture everyone? I don't quite understand. The one quoted in the article is the spokesman of the American CENTCOM, Colonel Myles Caggings. He says: the international coalition has about 70 deaths from 2015. That number has been counted for at least 18 months. Why can't Mr Bosman just answer that? It just doesn't make any sense what's going on here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u102	Mr President, first of all, I am not standing here with a hurray vote. Let's make a deal with each other. I'm not standing here with a hurray mood. I'm not here to lecture anyone. But the interesting thing is that Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen says "this is CENTCOM's spokesperson," while Mrs Diks says: no, it is from the mission. Who is it now? Is he from the mission or CENTCOM? Could you clarify something? 'Cause I miss it for a second.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u103	Firstly, Mr Bosman is here to lecture everyone and to ask about the relevance of the whole debate. He then lectures the spokesmen. If you could have read or wanted to read the article yourself, you would have read in the introduction that it says: "But a spokesperson of the American CENTCOM..." And then later, the fifth paragraph says...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u104	Is it an article, is it a piece? Then give me a copy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u105	Yeah, it's just the NOS article. The American spokesman for the mission in Baghdad, the same one referred to in the introduction, says that. That's Mr. Myles Caggings. It's very clear. Mr Bosman could have just taken note of that, like all of us, and he could have just answered that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u106	I have taken note of a message from CENTCOM. A formal message from CENTCOM has just been dealt with in this Chamber. It has been given to all participants present here. In that CENTCOM simply says: we are not clear and we do not have absolute figures on the number of victims. That message just came from CENTCOM. So again, when people say this, that's fine with me. But then I assume there's another message coming from CENTCOM, which they're going to fix. We have had the official coverage here in plenary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u107	It's a news report, I understand, that came out at 4:00 p.m. Apparently, not everyone needs that. I'm not. I now give the floor to Mr De Roon on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u108	Thank you, Mr President. There is no final CENTCOM report on the Dutch air strike at an IS-bomb factory in Iraq, where an entire residential area has been completely wiped out. The additional and second research on the targeting process of CENTCOM was also the last to be produced there. What there isn't, there isn't. The lack of a final report, a close report, I have to say, can you regret it or not, but that's the end of it. The procedures at CENTCOM leave it open whether or not a close report is drawn up. So much for the Minister's position as I understood it. I have a few questions about the supplementary report on the targeting process. First of all, why was that additional report not sent to the Defense Department until 22 January 2016, when it was already made on 20 August 2015? How does the Minister explain that difference? The second question is: when was the Minister informed that there was no final CENTCOM report and that the additional investigation into the targeting process was the final one? Thirdly, was the additional CENTCOM study, like the initial study, shared with the D.A. in January/February 2016? And why isn't that mentioned in the fact story of November 5th? Mr. Chairman. There has been a little more clarity about the CENTCOM reports, but I still wonder why all this has taken so long. That really is a question that lingers. The PVV believes that dawdling is a bad and harmful thing, not only for the provision of information to the Chamber, which continues to fail, but also for the reputation and appearance of our armed forces. And that's something that keeps gnawing. Mr. Chairman. The overall picture still does not provide a reassuring positive picture. On the contrary, the PVV still has a feeling of distrust and unease. This is first of all with regard to the poor memory of the Prime Minister, but it is also extremely unbelievable that it is impossible to find out how Mrs Hennis' double lie actually came about. From this file an unwelcome smell continues to rise, i.e.: it still stinks, that whole thing. Mrs Karabulut is therefore tabling a motion today asking the Minister to visit CENTCOM and ask if we can still have access to these reports, perhaps the entire public, but at least the Members of Parliament, as far as I am concerned. Maybe that doesn't bring in new insights, but maybe it does. But if you've seen it, at least you know exactly where you stand in the review of reports that you haven't been able to see so far. So that is why I would say: I am going to advise my group to support Mrs Karabulut's motion. Mr President, I shall leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u109	Thank you, Mr. De Roon. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Voordewind on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u110	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the meantime, I find the discussions we are having rather confusing. Now, the NOS has just reported that it has three sources that claim to come from CENTCOM and that 70 victims would have been killed. Mr. Chairman. I also endorse the e-mail of 20 November, which we received from the previous debate. It says that CENTCOM has reported directly that they have received the number of 70 victims from external sources or public sources, but that they have never been able to confirm that number themselves. So we are not talking about sources of media or even a source of this minister. This has been a direct e-mail from CENTCOM. If that comes directly from CENTCOM and not through, I think that's clear. Then we have two final questions, which are now reappearing. Has there been a close report or not? The Minister says that there was no such thing. We have had the report of 22 January, but we have also been told orally that this should be seen as a close report. Well, that's what the Minister says. I assume the Minister has a source for that too or has had an e-mail about it. If the Chamber wants to make a salomon judgment of its own, we could even get that e-mail and get it directly from CENTCOM. That leaves the last point, namely whether or not these 70 are included in the CENTCOM table. There is also a lack of clarity about this. Maybe in that same email from CENTCOM you can also send it to the Chamber whether it was there or not, otherwise we will not get any clarity about it. But about that 70 we had a very explicit direct mail.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u111	A brief question to Mr Voordewind. I was actually curious to see why Mr Voordewind calls the official military spokesperson of the anti-ISIS mission a vague source.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u112	I have no direct e-mails or contacts with this spokesperson. I read that in the media, but I did get a direct email from CENTCOM saying that it was a public source, but that CENTCOM could never confirm it. Well, that's a direct source. Those other messages I'm reading in the media now... Yeah, I guess I'll just have to assume that she's so... That may have been from a shorthand report and so on, but I do not have any direct information on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u113	Thank you, Mr Voordewind. I think you were done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u114	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Those are the two simple questions I have, so either there's...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u115	Clear, you don't have to repeat them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u116	If it is still somewhat unclear here in the Chamber, perhaps the Minister could send an e-mail. Then we'll have confirmation directly from the source that it's not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u117	Thank you, Mr Voordewind. Then I'll suspend for a moment, and then the Minister will answer the questions and the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u118	Then I'll give the Secretary of Defense the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u119	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since I have already given many answers in the first term, I will try to answer the questions as briefly as possible. There is something that is important to realize all of us here, because of course it remains annoying that we are standing here and that there is uncertainty. But the first point that I mentioned in my general point after the first term, also to Mrs Karabulut, is: there is no close report. And the second point, when it comes to the number of civilian casualties, was also discussed in previous debates. It is a large number of things that are at stake here. But every civilian victim is one too many for me, and what's there, what's to hit us. And how do we work? If CENTCOM can officially confirm them, via the line, that is our starting point; then we take it seriously. We will never, ever, deny or conceal civilian casualties, but we must do it with formal line information. Now I'm gonna walk by the spokesmen in order. I will start with Mrs Karabulut, and I will only look at the supplementary questions. Mrs Karabulut says: 'Do you recognise that civilian casualties have occurred?' I think that is an important point. Moreover, we have never had any disagreement about this, because the Prime Minister was also clear about it in the debate we had here in your Chamber. I don't think there's anyone here in the Chamber who thinks there's been no civilian casualties. But formally, according to the official lines we have from CENTCOM, it is only very likely, however annoying we find that. Actually, that came out just fine. No one will think, based on what we're all thinking about now, that it's not about a large number. It is a bomb factory that has exploded, which has prevented serious other attacks by ISIS. No one will think it's small numbers. There may be a lot of them, but we just don't know. It is very likely, according to official terms, that civilian casualties have occurred. We know that without that number; we just don't have those facts. Once we have those facts, as soon as CENTCOM can officially report them to us via the official line, we will report them and then we will take them over. That's what I'd like to say. We thought that Mr Bosman said that, who was the first to send the OM reports to your Chamber immediately took responsibility as a cabinet, for those attacks in which civilian victims were killed. As soon as we can confirm those attacks, through the official channels, we'll take them with us. Then there is Mrs Karabulut's question: can you prove that the peak in the graph does not include the victims of Hawija? No, I can't prove that, just like you can't prove it. It is not for me to prove it either; that is also good to know, I think. That's up to CENTCOM, CENTCOM according to the official line. CENTCOM also deals with the reports and the dates behind them. What I can do, as I said in the first term, is once again ask CENTCOM to confirm this. I'm willing to do that, too. That's what I said in the first term. I don't know if there's gonna be an answer, but I'm sure I will. What I find very annoying is that in a message, apparently from NRC, a spokesperson is being quoted. That's why I took advantage of the suspension to read that message. This is not an official spokesman for CENTCOM. That's a point we need to put here. We must do it as a defence organisation with official line information, in which the military organisation and the people responsible for it are asked for information. I want to ask you again. And if it turns out the official line has this information, I'll let you know immediately. 'Cause I honestly don't like what's going on here. I also think it is worthless that a colonel is being quoted again, who does something different and has a different function, and who says something about the work he has done in his past. I'm just saying it the way I look at it. There is no reason for us to withhold any civilian victim, because we have taken responsibility for it. We were the only ones who flew over Hawija, just as we took responsibility for Mosul. But we don't know! And we must rely on official line information. As much as I appreciate spokesmen, we are dealing with official lines, and I find it really annoying and really worthless that this confusion has arisen, a confusion of a nature which at least I do not know and which is not in the official line information, let me just say. You may know that I will ask our CDS to call CENTCOM again at a high level now that there are no more people making this kind of statement without us... And I will ask for the official information myself, but we just need to get the information in line and not this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u120	Brief question, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u121	Mr President, I will be as brief as possible. The official line: there's now an official statement through the media.Our media doesn't write lies about the fact that the approximately 70 deaths from the Hawija air strike in 2015 have been in the total number of civilian deaths for at least 18 months. This is just official, Mr. Chairman. The Minister says so himself. The Minister is, of course, responsible from the Netherlands itself. This is also what CENTCOM is asking for for reporting on civilian deaths. That call and between emailing and sending messages in between strongly suggests that we call CENTCOM when people get caught up in politics. I can't control that, Mr. Chairman. I would like to ask if the Minister would officially ask her colleague what exactly is going on with the table, with the previous report, with the previous statements. I can help the Minister to draw up a letter that I really love so that we can get all the information on paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u122	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u123	The Chamber has received all the official information from me. I shall now turn to the supplementary questions. This gentleman is not an official spokesman for CENTCOM. As far as I've just read, he's a spokesperson for the OIR mission in Baghdad, I think. This is different from an official spokesman of the CENTCOM line organisation, who has the responsibility to report to us officially. I can address that to our Deputy Commander of the Armed Forces, who is here. He has to maintain the contacts officially in the line. We have to do it with official information, because it is classified classified information for the most part. That's the information I gave you. I think it's worthless, I've just told you that I see this, and annoying, but if it turns out that there is now other information... I'm prepared to call my colleague on that, no problem at all, and to address that. I am also talking about other matters, at your request, so I will certainly do the same. If it turns out that that other information has, I'll give it to you, but I need to get it on the official line. I can't go on media reports.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u124	You made that clear. Mrs Karabulut, the second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u125	It's not just this spokesperson. It's also another spokesperson, Colonel Sean Ryan, who confirms all of this. And, Mr President, I am not satisfied with this and I think you understand me very well as President of the Chamber with that in between. I'd like the reports out in the open. That is allowed; information may be declassified. So does CENTCOM. I want the Minister to request an official letter with all the information, including the whole process, from her colleague, so that we can get it on paper and check it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u126	I myself, in the first term, heard that from the Chamber if it listened carefully, saying that I would ask you to do so. I will come to the motion in a moment, because Mrs Karabulut has also tabled a motion on this, and I will simply judge it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u127	Your third question, Mrs Karabulut. You have four questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u128	I'd like to say a few words about Mr. Ryan. That is the point Mr Bosman raised in his speech: I simply sent you in writing that it was taken back. You have received this from me and have been distributed in the Chamber. It is therefore not appropriate for Mrs Karabulut to suddenly say that it has stood, because it has not stood. I sent that to you in an official letter. I'd like to get that out of the way for a while. Well, I'm gonna get back to the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u129	On this point, Mrs Karabulut. Your third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u130	Another point, in line with this. Just as a response to the Minister's remark: that was in the debate where it was confirmed earlier, the civilian deaths were denied at that time and that e-mail was received. That's why I'm saying I want an official document and a letter on that. Then about the number. In her letter last night, the minister says that the 70 can't be Hawija, that peak. It's an official chart. They're numbers from CENTCOM, just from the Americans, officially confirmed death rates. Of this, yesterday's Minister wrote very clearly in her letter that it is not. I have here, on the basis of CENTCOM figures, selected by Airwars, a complete justification that cannot be otherwise: on 3 June 2015 70 civilian casualties, which are indeed part of that. Hence my question to the Minister. The Minister claims and writes to us that he is not. Can she prove that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u131	I just answered that question. The question you asked me was: can the Minister prove that that peak... I said I can't prove it, but Mrs Karabulut can't prove it either. I have to do with the official CENTCOM reports. I am prepared to ask that again, but according to the official answers, I have all said that, President.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... They're not saying it's not. They say that I also said that in the first period, it is very likely that many victims have been killed, but they do not know the numbers. It doesn't matter to us, but they can't record it until it's registered and confirmed. That's how they report it in the official line. I think Airwars is an important organisation and I promised you in the previous debate that we will talk about it, but that is not the official line we are dealing with.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u132	Last question, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u133	CENTCOM confirms the 70, also that they are in the list of total deaths, today. These numbers are from the Department of Defense. So if the Minister states here that she can't prove it, then she has, I would like to have a reaction to that. Yesterday, in the letter, she really misinformed us. Then she should have written down: it may be Hawija, but I can't confirm that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u134	No, now you're really turning it around. There is no confirmation of CENTCOM, not even in the media. I just told you about that. There's a colonel in Baghdad who says something about that. That is not the official CENTCOM line, however annoying you may find it and how worthless I find it that suddenly I had to read it again during the debate. I have already promised the Chamber that I will ask our commander of the armed forces to call the commander of the armed forces there, to say that it must never again prevent these colonels from publishing deviant data, that they do not come through the official line. I'm gonna ask you again about those things myself. I will go into what we already have in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u135	I think you have said that three or four times, so it will be a repeat of the same question and the same answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u136	Mr President, I would like to make an order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u137	Yeah, an order proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u138	You're absolutely right, Mr. Chairman. These aren't things I make up. These are official CENTCOM figures.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u139	What's your order?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u140	The Minister claims the opposite. I don't want a bell. I would suggest that we suspend the debate if necessary and/or that the Minister ensure that before the end of the debate we have the information on which the Minister claims to base, the official information from CENTCOM.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u141	That's an order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u142	Because I can't do my job in any way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u143	Good. Who is in favour of Mrs Karabulut's proposal to suspend the debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u144	Mr President, we have received all the formal information. I base myself as a Member of Parliament on the formal information. Mrs. Karabulut makes all these assumptions. There's no formal evidence from CENTCOM. That's why there's no support.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u145	Mr President, I wholeheartedly support the proposal and the request. If this is really based on official CENTCOM figures it is said that there are indeed at least 70 deaths, and probably...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u146	Okay, you support the request?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u147	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u148	I understand that the Minister says that she can only work with formal documents. But now a Member of Parliament says: it's formal. This, while there are also clues that indicate something else. I can't understand that. I therefore support Mrs Karabulut's request.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u149	Mr President, we wholeheartedly support the request. It's pretty obvious, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u150	Madam President. Can a minister be even clearer? She says, as soon as I get official information, I'll share it with the Chamber. I therefore do not support the request. We'll do it with the official information we have. We may be debating here in response to media reports, but not on the basis of media messages as official information.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u151	Mr. Chairman. I wouldn't know what additional data we need, so I don't support the request.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u152	There's a table, though. It was sent to us by Airwars. I would like to hear from the Minister: who did this table come from?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u153	It is now about the order proposal, Mrs Diks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u154	Exactly. That's what I'm talking about. I think the Minister can answer the question very quickly whether that table we are talking about...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u155	No, it's about the order proposal. Do you want to suspend or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u156	Oh, to suspend? Well, I think that information can be found very quickly. So that's why I'm suspending.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u157	Do or do not suspend, Mrs. Diks?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u158	So that's why I want to suspend.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u159	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u160	I'm gonna try to do it shorter, Mr. Chairman. I support the request.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u161	I support the request.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u162	Mr President, I would also like to clarify what the difference is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u163	Yes. Do you wish to suspend?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u164	So a short suspension would be fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u165	You want a short suspension. Okay. There's a majority for a short suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u166	Then you'll have to give me the table, Mr. President. There's a lot of talk about tables here, but at least I have to have tables.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u167	Does anyone have the table we're talking about for the minister before they get suspended? I see Mrs. Karabulut is handing him to her. This should go through the messenger.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u168	Now I have a point of order, Mr President. The Minister works on the basis of official documents. We are now asking her to respond suddenly to documents put forward in the media by various organisations. The Minister must now have an opinion on this, and we now want to bring these documents into the debate. That way, the Chamber is really making a fool of itself. The Minister said that if there are official documents, the Chamber will have them. If we take ourselves seriously, we can't want this to happen. I'll take a look at my colleagues. This is a very important subject in which we ask the minister for accuracy and accuracy of pilots. In doing so, we all feel compassion for next of kin. On such a subject, we are not going to ask the Minister very quickly to respond quickly to a piece, a table of an instance somewhere in the Netherlands or outside the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u169	Mr. Van Helvert,...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u170	Madam President, that does not help the debate, the quality of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u171	I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u172	With this we do the minister, the chamber, the next of kin...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u173	Mr. Van Helvert!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u174	...and the pilots have no right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u175	I'm gonna talk through it now. It's been decided to have a short suspension. That's what we're gonna do. After that, the Minister can indicate whether or not she can respond to this. And then it is indeed done! Mr. Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u176	Mr. Chairman. If this kind of information becomes available to the Chamber, then I assume it is factual information, with underlying evidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u177	Yeah, that's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u178	That's what I'm asking!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u179	No, it's not a question. Those proofs will have to be provided. I therefore assume that those evidence will now be provided by Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u180	I think it's okay if the Minister comes back to that later. Then she might be able to answer that herself, but I don't know any of that. I'm suspending the meeting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u181	But do we have a piece now, or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u182	That's what the messenger's about to hand over to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u183	If I don't have a piece, I can't look at it either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u184	No. Good. I'm suspending the meeting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u185	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u186	Mr. Chairman. I've been looking at your chart. I must tell you that I have to act on the basis of official contacts and official documents. If CENTCOM is going to tell me something new, I'm going to report it to you. We have, of course, had official contact with CENTCOM in the context of your reply to your Chamber. Then we asked the following question: was Hawija part of the total number of confirmed victims? That is the question that has been asked. One of the parliamentary questions that we answered, as included in the letter, was in the direction of Mrs Karabulut. By the way, I also said something about this in the first term. I now read to you the official CENTCOM response. In English; you'd better like that, Mr. Chairman. "No, CENTCOM reports only confirmed numbers of CIVCAS. However, it does not exclude the possibility of more, at least. The Hawija investigation found that non-combatant deaths were likely, but was unable to confirm the specific number of CIVCAS." That is the official answer we have received. So I'll never deny any victim as I started my first term, but I have to do it with the official line registration. That is what I can say about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u187	Mrs Karabulut, I am really going to intervene now, because this is the answer to your suspension. I'd like to make the suggestion that the Minister just move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u188	So this was not the answer to the questions I asked. I would like to ask the Minister for the underlying information on the documents from which she quotes and for the answer to the written question 8 on the table, as received last night. I would like to receive the underlying information showing the answer "no'.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u189	I just read the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u190	No, Mrs Karabulut, you will not have the floor again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u191	What I have already promised you is that I will ask CENTCOM again a number of things; you have all heard this in response to other Members of Parliament who asked for it. I'll do the same here. If that proves otherwise, I will report it to you, as I have said. With us there is no tendency to deny any civilian victim; we find it disgusting enough. We will then inform you in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u192	I understand that every time the Minister goes back to the fact that we don't know exactly how many there are. Why this question was actually quite relevant is because it has been decided to include perhaps 70, despite the fact that they might not have been 100% sure that there could not have been more or less. The Minister says in her answer: that could not have been Hawija. That's for sure. That is why we are looking for something that the Minister can give to the Chamber, which shows that it could not possibly have been Hawija. That's what the question was about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u193	I understand that, but I have to base myself on what we get back from the official CENTCOM line, I say in the direction of Mrs Belhaj. Airwars has of course added up a number of things. It's about the 1,347. I've just looked at the state. But the official CENTCOM line tells us that if civilian casualties are not confirmed, they do not include them in the reports. If that is the case, as I said before the suspension, and if that is the case from other information, I will let you know immediately. I have already promised you to ask CENTCOM, as I would ask for the reports, in the first period of time. I find it annoying and worthless enough that it is not for nothing that the terms used are that there is confusion during a debate from sources that I cannot control now. I have to do it with the official line information. I'm not denying anything. If I know anything, I'll give it to you right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u194	Of course, it is not just the debate; you are so determined to answer that question. You must have done that on the basis of something, and that was the question. CENTCOM has said: it is true, those two months; that could not have been Hawija. If you say that now, then so be it. Someone miscounted or got the wrong data. But that is the question now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u195	Sure, but that's why I read the text we got back, in English: "No, CENTCOM reports only confirmed numbers." That is what we base ourselves on. I can't check the table...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u196	That's what you said, so I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u197	... so I do it with this official answer that she only... I'm gonna ask them again, too, if they took this. I promised you that, and I will, of course, inform you about it. I had actually arrived at Mr Kuzu's questions. He asked, "How do you respond to careless communication?" I actually said that in the first period. I'm really sorry about that. That doesn't deserve a beauty prize. We have brought that to the official CENTCOM line. I'm gonna do that again, because now there's other people talking. Mr Kuzu also asked why the Americans cannot release the reports. Actually, I've already said that. The Americans independently determine the classification of reports. The American foreign disclosure officer determines whether or not a report can be released to a country. What criteria are used here is up to the Americans, but I will ask you again. I'll come back to the motion. Then Mrs. Belhaj and the reports. I'd like to explain that very precisely. Mrs Belhaj said she was confused about the reports because she read something else in the media. I have just thought about it in the introduction and in my letter yesterday, but I would like to do it again. There are two reports on Hawija: the initial report, as you know, and the report on the additional research into the targeting process. Those are the two reports out there. There's no other report. That second report, which we always call the additional investigation into the targeting process, is the supplementary report you mentioned, namely the Army Regulation 15-6 report. So nothing has been withheld or anything. There's no other report either. This is simply the second report, but we have included it in the letter in Dutch. That is the report received by the Ministry of Defence on 22 January 2016. That's also the report you know. It's known to the Chamber. This is also mentioned in the letter and was discussed in the debate on 25 November. As I mentioned earlier, there is no close report. So it's those two investigations and the second report they said the investigation was closed. Why did that happen? That was also a question from Mrs Belhaj. I don't know. It has been suggested that the report has indeed been finalised. That's what we've been told. For the process after that, the signal that it was completed and that we had this additional report was enough to go through all the steps, to do our own investigation and to give it to the Public Prosecutor. That was the basis on which we were finally able to report to you in March 2018 that four cases were investigated and that we were responsible for civilian casualties in two cases. It doesn't happen often, but it happens more often that there is no close report.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u198	Have all of Mrs Belhaj's questions been answered?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u199	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u200	Mrs Belhaj, third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u201	That's right. Of course, it can happen that one time you don't close a report. But this is a report you don't expect to get a close report on. I'd like to know why that is. Sometimes something can't be shut down. Should the Netherlands, for example, deliver something, or should another country deliver something, so that it cannot be closed down? I would like the Minister to ask what the reason is. Sometimes the reason may be that one is still waiting for a letter, but that letter is not coming...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u202	Perhaps the Minister will be able to respond briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u203	Then that is why the report has not been finalised. And is that why the report isn't made public?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u204	There's been a misunderstanding. There is no close report in the official sense, but the investigation is complete. That is the point. In the supplementary investigation we received on 22 January, they informed us orally that they closed the investigation. It didn't take anything additional either, because they had all the information. This has been included in the additional research into the targeting process. That is the final investigation and that has been the basis for us for the follow-up process, which was necessary to carry out our own research and to deliver it to the Public Prosecutor, so that research could be carried out. So it's just finished, without having the official name "closure report."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u205	Finally, Mrs Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u206	That's almost an answer to my question. I'll ask the Minister to check why. Why don't they make a close report out of it? It's not just an incident. It's an incident where 70 or more civilian casualties may have occurred. I'd really like to know why.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u207	I'd be happy to ask...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u208	Mr President, I was not finished.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u209	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u210	That is what I would like to know. I would also like to know if that is the reason why the report cannot be made public. If you don't put a sticker on it with "closure" while it's closed, can that be a legal reason not to make it public?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u211	The latter is not true. It's all classified information. CENTCOM itself is concerned about whether they make anything public, whatever research it is. It doesn't matter what name the investigation has. That's what they're all about. Mr. Chairman. I had arrived at Mr. Christmas. He asked: those reports are confidential, but is it possible to see them anyway? I have already said this in response to Mrs Karabulut's first term. I've indicated that the reports are classified. It's not up to us to make them public. So I can't just offer them to you in confidence. It is true that the US has indeed made a version of Mosul public. I have therefore said that I am prepared to inform CENTCOM whether confidential access is possible. As I said in the first term, I do not know what the answer will be, but I will, of course, let you know. I know that people are very reluctant, and I have already told you that, but I am prepared to ask. I have, of course, also seen that there is a motion on this. I'll say something about that in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u212	That's clear. I therefore ask the Minister to ask CENTCOM to reply in writing. We also heard the Minister say a few times "we have understood orally that..." but it is still a little vaguer than when, like the Minister last time, we tried to get a clear, black-and-white reading from CENTCOM of the answer to the question that the Minister is going to ask, namely whether it is possible to make those reports available confidentially.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u213	I'll ask. I don't know if they're willing to do that, but I'll definitely ask. I will insist on that too, because that is what Mr Kerstens is about to ask. So I will insist on it. That's no problem at all. By the way, I was just reading the answer in English because we had also received it in writing. Otherwise, I couldn't read it so neatly. But I will certainly ask that. Then I have a question from Mr Stoffer and the questions from Mr De Roon. Mr Stoffer said: if there had been a close report, if there had been a report with that name, would that make any difference? What does a close report do? In Mosul's case, that report actually contains and confirms all the findings of the investigation into civilian casualties and indicates that that investigation has been completed. At Hawija, we have an additional report. I was just talking to Mrs Belhaj about that. If a report had been drawn up, a close report, even after the additional report, it would not have deviated from what had already been in the supplementary report. The lack of a close report, in the sense that it is not there, has not prevented us from taking steps in the process. Mr Stoffer knows that too, because he knows that after that we were able to conduct our own investigation into the arms deployment. We've completed that, too. We've offered this additional investigation to the state's attorney's office. In our view, therefore, it would not add anything to what was already there, because it has already been specifically mentioned in the supplementary study. I have just tried to answer that in the direction of Mrs Belhaj. Mr. Chairman. Let me now turn to Mr De Roon's questions. Is the additional report, the CIVCAS report shared with the D.A.? The answer is yes. That was shared with the D.A. on 1 March 2016. Mr De Roon also asked: when did you hear that the final closure report does not exist? As I have just said towards Mrs Belhaj, we received the additional investigation on 22 January 2016. At the same time, Defense was informed orally that CENTCOM thus considered the entire investigation of civilian casualties to be closed. After that, nothing happened to it. They thought it was locked down at the time. So from that time on, the Secretary of Defense officially knows that. Mr De Roon asked: "How come it took so long, namely until 22 January, before the Defence Department received the report? After all, that was already completed on 20 August 2015." CENTCOM's additional research into the targeting process, the AR 15-6, resulted in a classified American report. The release and sharing of that report with the Netherlands takes time. That's the complexity of this kind of thing. As I mentioned in the previous debate, the Netherlands has asked several times to give the results of the study. It was requested in August/September, but the report came on 22 January 2016. So that has to do with the classification. Finally, before I come to the motions, Mr President. Mr De Roon asked why not all the reports are in the facts. CENTCOM's initial report on Hawija is in the facts. Unfortunately, the additional report on Hawija is not in the facts. That's too bad. Fortunately, we have corrected this by mentioning it and explaining it in the letter of 25 November, because that is what it says. It was not in the facts, but it was in the letter of 25 November. And I just put it in the perspective of the timeline. So there are two reports from CENTCOM that have always been known to us. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u214	I may have missed it, but that seems to me to be hard, because I was sitting here in the Chamber: I do not think the Minister has gone into the questions I had asked at all. Apparently she herself was under the assumption that it was included in the array of answers, but I would have liked to have a reply from the Minister to the very serious question I had to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u215	What was the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u216	How is the exchange of information between CENTCOM and the Ministry of Defence? Does the Minister feel that the Ministry is sufficiently taken seriously by CENTCOM? I think it is all very serious what is happening here today. The debate is not being held in a high tone. That is good in itself, but it is very serious...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u217	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u218	...as it all turned out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u219	There are two lines of viewing. Well, that's what I'd like to tell you. The official CENTCOM line I'm dealing with has always been consistent. That's the official line running from department to department. The complicated thing is that the colonel who just quoted Mrs Belhaj in her question says something else. His name has slipped my mind for a moment, but he has a different function and is not in the official CENTCOM line; as far as I can see, because I don't know exactly now. But I, we, have to sail on our official own line.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u220	I think you said that ten times. I'm really moving on, because the mining team is also in the room. I would therefore suggest that you just go to the motions now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u221	Yeah, but I'm sorry, and I've said that as you know. And that's why I'm gonna talk to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u222	Yes. Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u223	Then there's the motions. The motion in part No. 1, by Mrs Karabulut, requests the Government to submit requests for the release of the CENTCOM reports. As I said, we asked for this after the debate on 28 November. The answer was "no" then. But I'd still like to leave the judgment to the Chamber. I have promised you that I will do so, and we will do so along different lines. The motion in part No. 2, by Mrs Belhaj, asks the government to ask CENTCOM to come up with a so-called close report. I really don't want to advise you on that. The additional report, the AR 15-6, concludes the investigation. The Netherlands then took all the necessary steps in the process. It doesn't add anything. I also replied to Mr Stoffer. The outcome will not change either. Then the motion to part No. Three, by Mrs. Diks. Let me confine myself to the operative part. In the first part of the operative part of the operative part, the government is invited to make clear agreements on the investigation and reporting of incidents in which the Netherlands was involved and to draw up any written conclusions I can actually live with and share with the Chamber. I can't just pass judgment on that second one, because I need to see what's in it first. Because I can't do that one-on-one. I would like to keep an active watch on the arrangements, but if you would remove them or amend them, I can leave the judgment to the Chamber. So you're gonna have to take a look at that yourself, or I'm gonna have to dissuade her.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u224	The Minister's response is clear. I could still see if I can adjust her a little bit. I'm willing to do that with all my heart. I did not put it in the motion very clearly when it had to be shared with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u225	No, I saw that. Mr President, I think I have come to the end of the reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u226	That's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-19-tweedekamer-40.u227	We shall be voting on the motions tabled tonight. I thank the Minister. I thank the spokesmen.
