ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u1	The next item is the legislative initiative proposed by Mr Koopmans and Mr Van Helvert concerning rules for the deployment of armed private maritime guards on board Dutch merchant ships. Mr. Koopmans and Mr. Van Helvert, I would like to welcome you to the First Chamber. I have already welcomed the Minister for Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u2	I give the floor to Mr Dercksen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me also and again start by thanking the initiators for the legislative proposal before us. The initiators alternated, I understood. As far as the PVV Group was concerned, they also did some time on answering the questions, although they depended on the Ministry, I understood later. In any case, it is disappointing that such a proposal is before us, because we are talking about the safety of our people. I'll get back to you on that. It is good that there is a proposal that makes it possible to activate private security teams if the VPDs, the Vessel Protection Detachments, of the Navy are not available. This is important, because the Dutch merchant ship operates for about 75% on the spot market and the VPDs are not flexible enough to do so. The proposal is a careful piece, in which responsibilities and liabilities are detailed. We will, of course, support this, because piracy has increased in 2018. In the fourth quarter of 2018 alone, 41 abductions took place off the coast of Nigeria, and further and further off the coast according to the International Maritime Bureau. However, where our marines were present, no incidents were reported, not even attempts to do so. So there can also be no doubt, no discussion about being that security works. That's for sure. For the PVV Group, this bill is therefore mainly a motion of censure on politics, a charge against the Binnenhof. It is a serious scandal that we are only now coming up with such legislation. If there are stable orders coming from Brussels, then everyone except my group will jump into the position, while other countries will see if that is necessary. And larger countries only follow rules that come true in the first place. Every week, many parties are working here to defend the interests of other countries. Economic refugees, illegal immigrants: they can count on wide interest and support from almost all parties. Put on a dress as a man, put on a hat, and you'll be hanged with aid workers and asylum lawyers. You get a free house, free furniture, free car; it can't be on. The government calls on the Dutch neighbours once again to adapt to their new neighbours. Are you a criminal asylum seeker? Nothing gets in your way and the D.A.'s on your side. How different is it if you are a Dutch employee or entrepreneur in the merchant navy. How different is it when it comes to Dutch interest? Then there's hardly anyone home here. Mr. Chairman. As far as I could tell, the PVV has been advocating such legislation since 2011. Since 2011. And in 2016 colleague De Roon in the Lower House filed a motion calling for private security on Dutch merchant ships for our people, for our entrepreneurs. But everyone, everyone was against, including the parties that are now coming up with this bill. How is that possible? What's wrong with politics here at the Binnenhof? Where does this self-loathing come from? Other countries have had such legislation for many years: France and Norway since 2011 and Germany since 2013. Dutch politics leaves its own people in the cold for years. In April last year, 11 crew members of a Groningen ship were taken hostage off the coast of Nigeria. Of course, that was primarily the fault of the perpetrators, but politics is at least co-responsible here. Mr. Chairman. There are about 5,000 Dutch seafarers and 22,000 non-Dutch seafarers on Dutch ships. We've despised them for years. There must even be an initiative proposal, because the cabinet could not do it. How bankrupt can you have politics? We also economically have through this "way with us!"-politicians have suffered damage. There is no doubt that many ships have sailed under a different flag. It is clear that the Dutch merchant has lost a lot of turnover because it was not possible to secure itself, while it is an industry in which tens of billions are involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u4	I have heard Mr Dercksen press charges against Dutch politics, but he himself is part of that. What prevented the PVV Group from coming up with an initiative law in 2012 or 2011 itself? There's been that possibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u5	Yes. I just indicated that we tabled a motion in 2016 against which everyone was opposed. Everyone was against it, including D66. What are the chances that an initiative proposal that we would have tabled three months later would have been approved by all those who were opposed to it a few months before?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u6	I do not know the PVV Group at all, that she does not want an argument, an initiative, an indictment or a motion because she thinks it will not make it. That's very special, isn't it? Why in this case?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u7	We've been pleading for private security on merchant ships since 2011. Since 2011! Everyone here at the Binnenhof especially on the other side, because here we have not dealt with it, East Indian has been deaf. The VVD tried it in the cabinet, but it didn't work because the PvdA was on board. That's why it didn't work out. There is little point in putting forward an initiative proposal if everyone is against it and everyone is against it. If you suggest that we should table an own-initiative proposal on every motion we table, it might be a little bit busy, Mr. Backer. Mr President, I had one last sentence. I hope that the adoption of this law will wipe out this political scandal. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u8	Thank you, Mr. Dercksen. I give the floor to Mrs Vlietstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u9	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, my group would like to congratulate the initiators of the legislative proposal on the great work they have done and on the answers to our questions. I would also like to thank the Minister for his answers. The proposal for an own-initiative report is in line with the opinion delivered by the De Wijkerslooth Committee. The essence of that opinion is that the monopoly of violence belongs to the government, but that does not mean that only the government can apply violence. In specific situations, when the government cannot fulfil its duty of care to protect its citizens, private security is conceivable under strict conditions, rules and supervision, according to the De Wijkerslooth Committee. According to the initiators and the government, such a specific situation exists and therefore the possibility of private security on merchant ships is justified. My group considers this to be a very far-reaching legislative proposal. In our view, the exercise of violence and its democratic control should also be reserved in principle for the public authorities. My group is not convinced that the specific situation that would be discussed here justifies abandoning this principle. Present: the government has a duty to protect its citizens. Of course, this duty of care also applies to merchant ship passengers in at-risk areas. In recent years, successive governments have implemented this by participating in the international missions of Atalanta and Ocean Shield, by making Vessel Protection Detachments, VPDs available, and by investing in strengthening countries from which pirates come. This has contributed to the fact that the number of incidents involving Dutch merchant ships is very small. In 2017, there were 180 incidents internationally. It is important to note that 101 of these 180 incidents occurred on ships at anchor, which, according to the Minister's reply, does not in fact allow protection by VPDs or private security guards. Moreover, it appears that more than 80% of the attacks have been resisted by the use of so-called best management practices. In 2018, 201 incidents occurred, again predominantly in ships at anchor. In 2017, only in one case was a Dutch ship involved in an incident. In 2014 it was seven, in 2015 it was one and in 2016 it was two. Although every incident is one too many, these are not shocking numbers in my group's view. Are the authors and do the Minister agree with my group? Mr. Chairman. Each year, 300 to 350 ships sail under the Dutch flag through the high risk area. On average, 40 of them are protected by a VPD. Protection by a VPD appears to be effective even though Mr Dercksen recalled this because from 2014 to the present there have been no incidents on ships that were protected by a VPD. From the Ministry of Defence it has been indicated that there is also enough room to grant all applications for a VPD. However, only a small proportion of shipowners use it. According to the applicants and the government, 75% of Dutch maritime trade is on the spot market and VPDs are not sufficiently able to respond flexibly. They're too big, too expensive, and shipowners have to go too far to take a VPD on board. In practice they are therefore, according to the proposers, mainly used for very special transports and not for transports in the spot market. Mr. Chairman. A VPD is made up of 11 members by default. In the case of private security, a team of four can be sufficient. In his letter of 26 February, the Minister stated that a team of three private security officers could also be sufficient in certain situations. An obvious question is then why not work with smaller VPDs. The government responds to our written questions about the fact that it does not see any reason to investigate this further. Security and responsible commitment are above all else, and the government does not want to make concessions. But where the government believes military security requires a team of 11 people, it considers three to four security guards safe and responsible in private security. That raises questions. Does a VPD conduct acts that a private security team does not perform and, if so, are they always necessary? Why would a private security team have surveillance from the ship's bridge and have to do this from all sides at a VPD? Why can't a VPD use the crew present and can a private team? When examining the bill in the House of Representatives, Mr Van Helvert even noted that the type of attack on which a VPD is equipped does not occur in practice. My group therefore once again asks the Minister why a VPD should always be made up of eleven people. If it is safe and responsible to have a private security team consisting of three to four people, why couldn't this be three to four soldiers? Is the Minister prepared to enter into consultations with his colleague in the Defense Department on the deployment of smaller VPDs? The applicants also mentioned other reasons not to use a VPD. Besides being too big, they'd be too expensive. For the deployment of a VPD, a shipowner pays €5,000 per day. Our written question as to the cost of a private security team has not been answered. That is why my group is asking this question again. What does a ship owner pay for a private security team? Given that experience has already been gained in all European countries by the proposers and the government, there must be an answer to that. What possibilities does the Minister see for further lowering the price of a VPD? VPDs can only be taken on board at a limited number of places, with the result that shipowners have to navigate and therefore incur additional costs. That is a real point, which can only be resolved if the government manages to agree with more countries on the storage of weapons and ammunition. Can the Minister state what efforts he is making to increase the number of weapons depots? Can the Minister also explain why the Defense Department can't use floating armories? Our written question followed only the unsatisfactory answer that the DOD does not want. Mr. Chairman. According to the applicants, many shipowners do not apply for protection by a VPD for these reasons. Consequences could be: the unprotected sailing of high-risk areas, the waiver of registration on transports, flagging or the illegal boarding of private security guards from abroad. My group has not received an answer to written questions as to how far this is really going. We therefore do not know how big the problem really is. Mr. Chairman. In the reply, the applicants expressed the expectation that an application for protection would be made 125 times a year after the entry into force of the Act, while the number of VPDs would remain approximately the same. In the note following the report, they refrain from mentioning numbers, as these 125 are based on the rejections of a VPD in the early period after 2012, and this is less indicative of the situation in 2019. My group therefore notes that the scale of the problem is unknown and that we do not know to what extent the problem will be solved by adopting this bill. I would like a response from the petitioners and the minister. Mr. Chairman. This bill is based on the principle of "VPD, unless." When a shipowner submits a request to the Coast Guard Centre, it shall first be assessed whether a VPD is possible and reasonable. If this is not the case, permission is given under conditions for the protection of a transport by a private security company. Two things play an important role in the assessment of what is reasonable: the costs to be borne by the shipowner and the number of nautical miles he has to take on board a VPD. The Minister intends to establish at AMvB that private security can be allowed if more than 100 nautical miles are to be bypassed and/or if the shipowner has to incur additional costs of more than 20%. Can the Minister explain why 100 nautical miles and 20% additional costs were chosen? Why not 50 miles or 150 miles? Why not 10% or 30%? And is meeting either of the two criteria sufficient or must both be met? My group fears that although on paper it is based on 'VPD, unless', the practice will be that most transports are privately secured. Do the petitioners share and the Minister shares this concern? The applicants assume that nothing changes compared to the current situation and mean that the shipowners who are now using a VPD will do the same. Should my group understand that new applicants will mainly use private security because they are cheaper and more flexible, and do they consider that appropriate? My group is also asking the Minister the same question. Mr. Chairman. An important point in the written exchange of views was our concern about the emergence of a situation where two captains could be on a ship, the captain as overriding authority on the one hand, and the team leader as private security on the other. In the letter from the Minister of 26 February, my group received a long-term answer to her question as to who will ultimately have the last word in the unexpected case of disagreement between captain and team leader on the use of violence. That's the captain. If he doesn't want a security team to take action, the team leader will have to accept this. A clear answer. My group thanks the Minister for that. Mr. Chairman. Finally. A large number of issues relating to the implementation of the law still need to be dealt with in an AMvB. It is being held in front of both Chambers, but at the time of the decision on the bill is still much unclear. Who's gonna do the accreditation? What conditions must be met in order to obtain accreditation? What permit conditions are used and how long is a permit valid? In which areas will the licence apply? What will be the content of the violence instruction? How is supervision completed by the ILT? How is foreign security companies monitored? And if afterwards it turns out that a foreign company has been negligent, by whom and where will judgment take place? It's all matters that are relevant to the assessment of the bill. Can the Minister, in anticipation of the AMvB, give us any more insight into this? Mr President, I will conclude. The monopoly of violence belongs to the government, even when it comes to the use of force. Only in very exceptional situations can a derogation be considered. My group is not yet convinced that this is the case. We are therefore waiting for the answers from the authors and the Minister with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u10	Could I ask Mrs Vlietstra a question? We, too, have not yet fully made that assessment. There is one aspect in the discussion that has also been mentioned relatively little in the written preparation, but I would think that the Labour Party attaches importance to it. That's the risk of flagging. You are asking for a cost level, but somewhere there is a cost level at which shipowners could decide to do so. This could also have consequences for the level of salary, security, handling staff you hire on what were first Dutch ships. Do you consider that to be a real risk and do you consider that to be a possible consequence?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u11	In the written round, I asked the applicants and the Minister to provide an insight into this situation, i.e. the number of times that are being flagged and that foreign companies may be deployed illegally. There were no answers to that. Just as you're probably guessing at it, I'm guessing it, too. I do not think it is desirable, but I am not yet ready to say that it would therefore deserve our support for the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u12	We then put a joint question to the Minister and the proposers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u13	I just asked the question again, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u14	In the sector, I asked if we know anything more about these flaggings. We know a lot of ships have been flagged. We just don't know what the reason is, because it's not registered. I think it's pretty clear: if you're not protected because you're flying a Dutch flag, and the rest of the world is, then it's a small operation to hang another flag, so you can protect your employees. How do you see that? All these other countries have done so, even in countries where parties like yours reign. Why is it possible there?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u15	I can repeat myself with what I just said to Mr Backer. I asked the question to give us an insight into this. You assume it happens all the time. I have no idea, so I would like to await the reply of the proposers and the Minister on that point. By the way, I repeat what I just said: more than 80% of the cases show that attacks are being resisted, because shipowners have taken precautions on the basis of best management practices.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u16	But could it also be that ships operating on the spot market in particular have just started sailing with a different flag, which means that very little is happening under our flag? If only for those 11 people on that Groningen ship off the coast of Nigeria who were kidnapped. What should happen before you want to give the shipping sector the opportunity to protect its own people? You leave them to their fate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u17	If you have listened carefully to me, you have heard that I have asked a lot of questions about making the VPDs more flexible. I think that the solution needs to be found much more in this than in private security. Moreover, like you, I am very curious to see what alternative solution the shipowners have sought. That could be flagging, but it could also be other things. You don't know, I don't know. I would like to wait for the answer on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u18	Thank you, Mrs Vlietstra. I give the floor to Mr Schouwenaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u19	Thank you, Mr President. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I would like to thank Mr Koopmans and Mr Van Helvert and all the supporters who have contributed and contributed. All this work makes an initiative law more exception than rule. Hence our respect for and thanks to the proposers. I wish them good luck. With this initiative they have addressed a current and pressing problem: the global increase in piracy at sea. Not only off the coast of East Africa, but also in East Asia, South America and West Africa. Our merchant navy is right to call on the government to provide protection, as is the case with all countries affected by piracy. However, the military lacks people and means to fulfil all tasks at once. In addition, procedures are too lengthy, the costs are too high, or there is no suitable space on board the ships to be protected. The Marines are doing their utmost, but supply and demand of protection are not sufficiently compatible. To meet this, the proposers propose to involve private maritime security officers operating under the supervision of the government. This would constitute an infringement of the State's monopoly of violence. This monopoly is on good grounds. The government must maintain the rule of law. In some cases, violence cannot be avoided, but this exercise of violence must be under democratic control and violence must be reserved for staff who are directly subordinate to the government. Usually they're military and police officers. Leaving violence to citizens creates the risk of too much violence or playing a judge of their own. In the case of pirates, the monopoly of violence is inadequate. The state doesn't provide enough protection. However, that does not relieve the same government of its responsibility towards the merchant navy. Her duty of care continues, even if it is not fulfilled or not fulfilled. That forces the search for alternatives. Because doing nothing is not an option. Do we accept piracy against Dutch ships? That would mean crime pays off. Victims would continue to fall and the home front and crews would remain in fear. The merchant navy and our economy would suffer a great deal of damage. Therefore, the need for armed action remains after all non-violent protection measures have been developed. Alternatively, the removal of the economic motives of the pirates has been mentioned. Intensifying development cooperation with coastal states could lead to a reduction in piracy. Our country has a balanced and careful international policy and with success. But a policy aimed at improving economic structures is a long-term issue. This is going to take too long, while piracy is a topical problem that requires a direct solution. Another alternative is offered by this bill. The government doesn't have to do everything with its own staff. Many public authorities are entrusted to private companies under the supervision of the government. Security tasks can also be transferred to private individuals when it comes to execution. However, it must be ensured that the performance by private individuals meets the same requirements as the performance by the public authorities: the same procedure, regulation, authorisation, certification, control and supervision. Then there should be no predominantly objection to transfer to private individuals, as long as those individuals have the form of quasi-government. The risks of this proposal have been highlighted in the House of Representatives. First of all, the risk that civil security will be preferred to military, because civil security can work faster and cheaper. This danger would be real if shipowners had a free choice. But there is no free choice. The Minister decides and does so on the basis of the principle "VPD, unless." Another risk is that more protection also means more violence. In itself, that's right. That's exactly the point, you might say. Private maritime security fills the gaps that are now falling. And that's not a risk as long as their M.O. is the same as VPD's. Civil security is second best, but that's better than nothing. There is also a risk that civilian security would use violence faster than military VPDs. The best practices do not provide an argument for this. Citizen guards are regulated and controlled. They are covered by the same Public Prosecutor's Office as the military. A valid argument is that costs should not play a decisive role in the choice of force. That choice is made by the Minister. A separate permit is required for each transport. It covers all aspects, not just the financial aspects. The starting point remains: "VPD, unless." Madam President. Finally, my group has two questions. First of all, the storm. The criminal justice system has a comprehensive regulation of the storm. To what extent does this bill regulate the same thing as the doctrine of self-defense does? Are we doing double work? Or are there elements of civil security that are not subject to storms, such as preparatory measures? In his letter, the Minister announced a reflection on storms. Maybe he'd like to lift a tip of the veil by now, as a try-out. Our second question concerns the bodycams. If force has been used, the captain will send the bodycams to the state's attorney's office. The prosecution may decide to prosecute a private security guard on the basis of the images and sound recordings. To what extent could this conflict with the principle that no one has to cooperate in their own condemnation? All in all, my group believes that the monopoly of violence should not be understood in absolute terms. The government may transfer tasks to others. Justification for this is the duty of care of the State. If the government fails to do so, mandating is allowed under the condition of proper regulation and control. This bill provides for this. We look forward with interest to answering our questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u20	I would like to put two questions to Mr Schouwenaar. He spoke at the beginning about the need to find alternatives, because development cooperation takes a very long time. I agree with him on the latter, but I understand that he only sees this bill as an alternative. My question to Mr Schouwenaar is: do you see any other alternatives? For example, do you see a more flexible use of VPDs as an alternative? My second question concerns the following. You say "VPD, unless" and you don't see the risk that this will mainly lead to private security, especially in that spot market. But if you look at the conditions of 100 nautical miles or have to pay 20% more costs, are you not afraid that this will be the case very soon and that in practice private security will be used in many cases?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u21	To start with the latter: it is neatly arranged on paper. It's almost closed. That is what is needed in this situation, I think. Tightening is not something we always judge so positively, but in this case that's good, I think. However, it can never be ruled out that there are people who leave the law for what the law is and go another way. That could also be financially inspired. In that sense, I can't rule out the risk you're pointing out. If only I could, I'd almost say. But I think it is very small, because it is a rather small world in this respect. Because it is very well regulated, certified and regulated, I think the risk is also minimized. I started with the second question because I can remember it most easily, but the result is that I have now forgotten the first question. That has been a wrong choice, but I hope you will forgive me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u22	In principle, I forgive you for everything, but still for your answer. I wasn't interested in the illegal use of private security. The Coast Guard Centre shall assess whether a person is eligible for VPD and shall do so on the basis of the number of nautical miles to be diverted or the additional costs to be incurred. Now, my assumption is that it could be that such a transport is very fast to comply with it, and that this will lead to the practice of most ships using private security. My question to the Minister was whether he would like to do so. So I'm not talking about illegal bets.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u23	You asked the Minister, so who am I to speak for my turn?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u24	I'll present it to you now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u25	You invite me to do so, so I do so on your authority. Again, there is always that risk, but I also have confidence in the coastguard's assessment and I also judge that risk as not as undesirable as you probably judge it. I think that civil security is a good thing, as long as it is done by good people and well-organised and well-controlled. We owe this to our seafarers. Your first question... You've given up?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u26	I forgave you, I told you, so let's forget about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u27	Thank you, Mr. Schouwenaar. I give the floor to Mrs Lokin.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "Je ne suis pas la bouche de la loi" but the "bouche" of Marnix van Rij in this case, which unfortunately cannot speak here today. The present legislative proposal has a relatively long history. The initiative proposal was submitted in September 2016, and we are now living in March 2019. Not only for this reason, but also for this reason, the perseverance of the initiators can be praised. My group would like to express its deep appreciation here for the careful response to the questions put at the time and also recently, both by the initiators and by the government. The CDA Group is convinced that there is a need for a private security regime for Dutch merchant ships. We see this as an additional facility when the military protection of public authorities, also known as Vessel Protection Detachment (VPD), is not possible or not available. This may be the case with smaller ships and on the so-called spot market, a market where freight is often offered in the short term and the destination is only known late. It has already been mentioned here: 75% of Dutch shipowners operate on this spot market. The use of a VPD is not always possible. The initiators have explained once again clearly in the reply why this bill is necessary in their opinion. They mention first of all: "the very great human damage, in the form of the number of deaths, wounded, hostages, but also the constant fear at the home front of the passengers. In addition, the damage also consists of the contribution of piracy to the financing of terrorism in Somalia and far beyond." In addition, economic costs were estimated at between $7 billion and $12 billion worldwide in 2010. And then we do not agree on the damage suffered by shipowners as a result of the failure to obtain public security or the additional insurance costs, or the necessity and costs of the operation. The Netherlands is the only country in the neighbouring states that has so far allowed only military protection by the government. All other similar countries, such as France and Norway since 2011, Denmark and Italy since 2012 and Germany and Belgium since 2013, now allow the deployment of private security guards on ships when they have to sail through High Risk Areas; areas in the world where terrorist pirates are active or not. These are a total of some 350 ships flying the Dutch flag, which may need protection. Each year, some 125 applications are expected to be submitted for the protection of merchant ships, both through VPD and private security. Although piracy has declined in Somalia thanks to a variety of measures and accompanying policies, piracy is expanding elsewhere in the world. In the first half of 2018, 107 incidents were reported, against 87 in the first half of 2017, including off the coast of West Africa, in the Strait of Malacca, the Gulf of Guinea, the Gulf of Aden, in Bangladesh, Benin, Ghana, Indonesia, Venezuela and the Philippines. Like the initiators, we see the proposed legislation as an addition to military protection. The monopoly on violence is and remains in the hands of the government. With the initiators, we believe that the De Wijkerslooth Committee has rightly concluded in its report that the right to violence by the government, albeit under strict conditions, may be transferred to others. In 2012, the government took the view that only the government itself, with or without the help of citizens or reservists, should implement the duty of care to provide adequate protection against piracy of merchant ships flying the Dutch flag. However, according to the letter of the Minister of Justice and Security of 18 January 2019, the government now also agrees with the position of the De Wijkerslooth Committee. The law requires further elaboration in a general measure of governance and a ministerial arrangement. In particular, the AMvB shall include the instruction of violence, which may be applied only if and to the extent that it is proportionate. The general measure of governance should cover, inter alia, the following matters: Under what conditions can a private security company be licensed? how are the responsibilities between the master of the ship and the team leader of the private security company arranged? What are the circumstances in which violence should be used, while respecting proportionality and under no circumstances killing people? how is the escalation ladder designed? how careful compliance with the reporting obligations of the master and the reporting obligation of the master and the team leader is to be met? The ministerial regime should then include provisions on sanctions against animals for non-compliance with these legal obligations, whether delegated or not. By the way, the limits are, as they should be, in the law itself. The Minister's letter states that there will indeed be one general measure of governance and one ministerial arrangement. Can the Minister confirm that the list given by the initiators in the response statement is correct and complete, see pages 17, 18 and 19 above? Is it true that, apart from the administrative penalties that will be laid down in a ministerial arrangement, the other issues, including, in particular, the instruction of violence, will be determined by AMvB and not by ministerial regulation? In his letter of January, page 5, the Minister is not entirely clear about this. In my group's view, a law itself can, of course, provide for an instruction of violence, but under Article 9 (8) of this proposal, it is in any case not allowed to lay down such an instruction under ministerial rules. So it's either by law or in the AMvB. Does the Minister agree with us that, at least in terms of violence instruction, sub-delegation is not allowed? Can the Minister specify a time limit within which the concept of the AMvB and the draft ministerial arrangement will be established? Can the initiators comment on the possible situation that the captain and the team leader do not come out in consultation, for example when the captain does not want to use force and the team leader does? Have the CDA members, as has just been pointed out by the PvdA, understood correctly that in that case the captain may ultimately decide whether violence is being used, and not the team leader? Do they understand that, in all cases where a private security team is on board, both the captain and the team leader must report separately to the Ministry of Justice and Security, even if violence has not been used (Article 12 (1))? Where violence has been used or is being used, video and audio recordings must be made, which must be sent by both the master and the team leader to report to the Ministry of Justice and Security. Does the CDA group understand that the use of force must also be reported without delay to the D.A. by the master, together with the files containing images and sound recordings (Article 12 (3))? If all this does not give too much red tape, we ask the Minister. According to this bill, two ministers are involved in the protection of merchant ships: the Minister of Justice and Security, described in the bill as "our minister" and the Minister of Defence (see Articles 4 and 5). The letter of the Minister for Justice and Security also refers to the Minister for Infrastructure and Water State, who remains responsible for maritime transport and maritime safety in the international context, as well as to the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation, who remains responsible for delivering internationally to the stability of a country such as Somalia in order to prevent piracy. Aren't these too many captains on one ship? Which ministry is responsible for what exactly? How exactly does coordination between these four departments relate to the security and protection of merchant ships, both public and private? Please give a reasoned response, both from the government and from the initiators. I'm rounding up. The Minister states in his earlier mentioned letter that there is no urgency to prepare a state law. In view of the fact that Venezuela is also mentioned as a country in the area of piracy, is it not appropriate to prepare a state law in the short term? At what time can Parliament expect a bill on the state law? Please provide a reasoned response from the government. Madam President. We look forward with interest to answering the questions we have put to the initiators and the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u29	Thank you, Mrs Lokin. I give the floor to Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. With this bill, the initiators, first Mr Ten Broeke and Mr Knops, and now Mr Koopmans and Mr Van Helvert, are trying to offer the Dutch merchant ships more security in the foreign. That's what's good for them. On behalf of my group, I would like to congratulate the initiators on the fact that at least they have already made it so far that they can defend the bill here. With this proposal they are addressing an important problem that requires solutions. However, it is the question, at least for my group, whether the solution put forward is the right one. The proposal to give private parties the power to use force to avert the risk of piracy affects a fundamental principle of the Dutch State: the government's monopoly on violence. The initiators follow the view of the De Wijkerslooth committee that the monopoly of violence is not an absolute principle. They argue that the right to violence may be transferred under conditions to others. The initiators believe that this is possible if the government is unable to comply adequately with its duty of care for merchant ships under the Dutch flag. As far as our group is concerned, this reasoning is rather short-sighted. We will go into that further and we hope today to get a little more depth from the initiators themselves around their support. In addition, we would like a clearer picture of how the need for private security has been secured with this bill. In my speech, I first focus on a technical aspect of the legislative proposal itself, and the tension between the VPD principle and the so-called level-playing field standard. Afterwards I briefly deal with the captain's overriding authority and the connection of this bill with the role and task of Defense. I'll start with the design of the bill. As the SP said in the written debate, it is an unfinished proposal, given the delegation provisions for drafting the legislative proposal in lower regulation. The initiators deny this and stress that delegation provisions are "useful, advisable and customary" without prejudice to the "clearness and overseeability" of the legislative proposal. My group does not entirely follow this line of reasoning. The amended proposal of the law covers only eight pages. So there could have been a bit more effect on this. But much more importantly, it is precisely in the AMvBs that crucial issues will be dealt with that affect the proportionality and feasibility of the legislative proposal. This undermines the supervisory role of this Chamber, i.e. on the spot, in the handling of the legislative proposal. This is not for the benefit of the plenary. But it also becomes more difficult afterwards, because in the case of an AMvB, it is always difficult for a parliament to have sufficient control over what it will look like in the end. I would like to mention two examples which are set out in more detail and which may be objections. As a first example, I refer to Article 4 (2) (a) and (b), which provides that the Minister of JenV determines at AMvB a number of nautical miles and a percentage of additional costs for a planned transport. On the basis of those criteria, a shipowner may rely on private security rather than a VPD. The government has now indicated its intention to determine with such an AMvB that such a VPD would not be 20% more expensive, or that a merchant ship would not have to travel more than 100 miles. This has just been memorized. This to facilitate a level playing field for Dutch merchants. My group fears a sliding scale, where less stringent regulated private security may operate in other countries at a cheaper and unlicensed cost. We now know the intention of such an AMvB. It may take shape in this way, but can also be changed afterwards. Nor can this bill ensure that merchant ships will not reflagged on the spot market on the basis of cost considerations. That flagging was one of the main arguments for this bill, and one of its main assumptions. With such a competition, which is likely to continue, even after the adoption of this bill, the criteria of 20% and 100 miles may be further put under pressure. All in all, there is a significant risk of ever less use of VPDs in this way. In replying to the PvdA's questions on this subject, the Government does not, by definition, raise legal or economic objections. In my group's view, this is contrary to the VPD principle, unless it is based on conditional outsourcing of the monopoly of violence. In our view, that is an inconsistency. We would like to hear how the government and initiators look at this. A second example is Article 8, in which the Minister of JenV at AMvB lays down detailed rules on the specific means of violence to be used and their storage. Here too, the stability of the future is cited as a reason to deviate from the Belgian modality, where these aspects are very strict, much more stringent. Although there is talk of "transferring the force monopoly under conditions," the legislative proposal only seems to require a step-by-step approach and the use of force as an ultimatum remedium. Are these indeed all the conditions, apart from the criteria of 20% and 100 miles, and if not, which others can be imposed? And most importantly, how can they be secured? Will we also be able to assess this in more detail in an evaluation? I'm on the overriding authority. The written procedure has already mentioned two captains on one ship or, more precisely, team leader and captain. The NVKK says that there is "permanent and structural consultation" between team leader and captain. If it turns out that protection measures have not averted the danger, then only consultation between team leader and captain is necessary for the use of the violence. There is expressly no need for the captain's consent to the team leader for the use of force. According to the NVKK, there can be "no difference of opinion" on the imminent threat of piracy. On the one hand, the government is therefore talking about a captain's overriding authority, in accordance with Regulation 8, Chapter XI-2 of the annex to the SOLAS Convention. According to the government, a situation can previously arise that the captain and the team leader disagree about the threat of piracy and the use of violence. The captain will have the last word. On the other hand, the NVKK only mentions this as a theoretical possibility. According to the NVKK, it is unthinkable that the captain should use this. After all, he has "no sense" of violence and will not want to do so. So despite SOLAS recording the captain's overriding authority, in practice many flag states and contracts between shipping companies and private security companies deviate from this. It is often stated in contracts that in grave life-or-death situations the right to self-defense outweighs the captain's overriding authority. Apologies for all those English words, so it's about situations of life or death. Although there would therefore be no inconsistency in the legislative proposal, there seems to be some ambiguity about the responsibilities on board, which is not clarified by the legislative proposal. My group wonders how private security officers will interpret their right to self-defense in practice, and whether this interpretation will be appropriate and not too broad. Are the responsibilities of captain on the one hand and team leader on the other, both clear and sufficiently secured in this bill? And is this really not a derogation from the SOLAS Convention? I'd like a response from both the initiators and the minister. Mr President, I will conclude. As far as my group is concerned, it is clear that merchant ships in the ocean are extremely vulnerable to piracy. As far as we are concerned, these merchant ships must be kept in mind, but not from the heart. This duty of care is important to us. But it's not so much based on a fear of reflagging. I think there are quite a few assumptions behind that fear. All you have to do is read Wikipedia to see what it's worth. There are many other reasons for this: economic reasons, taxes, cheaper operations, scrapping licences, quota hopping, etc. So I would not dare to say: we need this and we will avoid flagging. There are other reasons for that. Moreover, I have just referred to that race to the bottom in order to make it as cheap as possible. This will also put pressure on our criteria that we want to set. That race to the bottom will continue with this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u31	If economic reasons for GroenLinks are not decisive, because in many cases that is likely to be the safety of our own people, then perhaps it is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u32	Exactly. That's what I'm getting at. The duty of care is paramount for us, also for merchant ships sailing elsewhere. So now I'm going to ask for alternative solutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u33	To alternatives to this bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u34	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u35	But then, in principle, you are opposed to the private security proposed by this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u36	Probably, yeah. I've asked a lot of questions, and I'm gonna get answers to that. But we have great difficulty leaving the principle that the government has the monopoly of violence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u37	I mentioned the example of a Dutch ship that has been off the coast of Nigeria chronically since April 2018. This means that you want to allow this situation to continue for years to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u38	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u39	But that's the conclusion. You say they're not from the heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u40	No, they're not from the heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u41	No, but that doesn't help people as much as they get dragged away from a boat like that, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u42	Mr. Chairman. I have just come to ask for an alternative interpretation of the rules, because we have objections to the principle on which this bill is based. At the same time, our sympathy for the bill does not speak for itself, so apart from the duty of care that we do recognise. In addition to the desirability, the necessity and proportionality of the legislative proposal must also be demonstrated. Mrs Vlietstra has already explained in her speech that this need is still doubtful on the basis of practice. My group shares the concerns of other groups about whether the government can comply with its duty of care, about the degree of employability of VPDs to ensure this, and whether it can facilitate a level playing field for Dutch merchants. As far as we are concerned, these deficiencies in the status quo are equally in favour of a revision of the VPD and floating armoury policy in the Defense Department as well as of an erosion of the Dutch State's monopoly of violence. One of the rules that currently applies, for example, to the VPD is the number of crew members. Can't you fix that? The government and initiators believe that piracy is a "sustainable" problem. If this is the case, it seems logical to my group that a structural solution should be chosen. This may, for example, be an analysis of the international legal possibilities to reduce the costs of the VPDs and to accelerate their deployment by Defence, provided that the safety of marines is guaranteed at all times, as well as by intensifying international military cooperation or using floating armories. Can the Minister inform us about what possibilities he sees for more international cooperation or other measures that could promote the cost and availability of security for merchant ships? And can he inform us of what steps the government has already taken? In any case, my group does not think that solving problems of flexibility and capacity through the privatisation of security is the right way forward. We look forward to the response of the initiators and the minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Strik. I give the floor to Mr Kuiper.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u44	Thank you, Madam President. I am also expressing this contribution on behalf of the SGP Group. First of all, I would like to congratulate the two authors of the bill who are behind the table and those who have been the first designers, the former Chamber members Knops and Ten Broeke. Mr. Chairman. It was 410 years ago that Hugo de Groots Mare Liberum appeared "The Free Sea" - a work that originated from European discussions on caper ships and free access to sea waters worldwide. Global shipping had become a dynamic phenomenon, leading to new questions about conflicts between states at sea and maritime safety. Hugo de Groot has already spoken out about the justified use of violence associated with it. Piracy was also a formidable problem at the time. Places like Dunkirk and "Barbarije" -- who else does she remember? In the seventeenth century, the "Broeiinsten" were of piracy. The Dutch Navy has also gained its fame in the fight against it. In Debrecen in Hungary one remembers the action of Michiel de Ruyter in 1676, who liberated 26 preachers from the hands of pirates and protected them from slavery. Piracy is of all times. Where there is a lot of shipping in the open sea, where passages and straits are for merchants, there is also, in the absence of authority and law, piracy. The globalisation of our time and the further globalisation of trade give many new opportunities for this. The International Chamber of Commerce sees the number of incidents increasing year after year, with the Gulf of Guinea as a newcomer for West Africa, I understand from the 2018 report. But the Horn of Africa and Somali waters remain no less dangerous. Mr. Chairman. This legislative proposal has a preliminary stage which has preceded several stages of reflection. For more than a decade there has been talk of the security and military protection of the Dutch merchant navy. In 2011, this Chamber already sent a signal to the Minister that a solution had to be found in the discussion on the design of the force monopoly, as shipowners had already undertaken to hire private security guards themselves on ships. The Dutch government has decided to set up VPD units, but this proved insufficient for smaller ships. This bill, in addition to what is already being done, seeks to give room to private security. In 2011 the De Wijkerslooth Commission prepared an opinion to the government in a short time on the deployment of armed guards on board ships and the interruption of the monopoly of violence that would result. We know the advice of this committee, which considers this commitment possible, provided that it is surrounded by conditions and legal guarantees. The authors of the bill have followed this opinion and that has resulted in this law. In my group's view, it would have been better if this law had been passed on the part of the government, taking into account the subject matter at stake and the direct relationship with the State's monopoly on violence. I would point out that the opinion of the De Wijkerslooth committee was strongly inspired by the form of piracy off the coast of Somalia. That seems to be the case with this bill. In the meantime, there has been an increase in incidents elsewhere, and I have already mentioned them, particularly off the coast of West Africa. What does that mean for this bill, which clearly takes the context of piracy from Somalia as a starting point? Mr. Chairman. The government has a duty of care when it comes to the protection of ships flying the Dutch flag. My group can well follow the choice made by the initiators of the De Wijkerslooth report. Navy deployment on this scale and for all specific situations, especially in smaller commercials, is not possible. The use of private security is then a good alternative, provided that it is guaranteed. The government does not, of course, distance itself from its monopoly of violence, but mandates other parties to use violence. The Wijkerslooth says in his report that this is actually about obtaining additional defence capacity. We can follow this line, and we are also clear about the usefulness and need of the measures, partly in view of the noise from ship owners. The draft law does not say much about the financial side of the security operations. Questions have been asked about the cost of both forms of security, i.e. either through the VPD teams or through private security. It would be a good thing if the proposers could go into this again. The original explanatory note states that a VPD costs €70,000 for a stay on board for two weeks. But Mrs Vlietstra already had other figures. I would therefore like to have some clarification on this. And how much does private security cost? It should not be the case that one form becomes the cheaper alternative to the other. The extent of the use of private security should be as limited as possible, since it is VPD, unless there is an autonomous growth on the basis of price considerations. My group would also like to ask the proposers to consider the quality guarantees that are needed when it comes to hiring (certified) private security guards. One private security company is not the other; here too, approach and reputation will differ, and ultimately work must be done under the master's authority. Checking in the selection is very important. Should this also preferably be Dutch or European companies? How do the proposers look at this? Our group also has a single question about the division of responsibilities on board and how this will work in practice, the relationship between the captain and the team leaders, which some other groups have already asked for. It seems to be true that you have to say that the captain has the authority, but ultimately the order for the use of force will be taken from the team leader. We would like to consider this and clarify it more clearly. It's about the difference between "mighty" and "order." Mr. Chairman. My group believes that, in general, careful coordination has taken place here with the safeguards that are needed. In the House of Representatives, the Minister expressed satisfaction with the quality of the law on this issue; of course we also look forward to his reaction in this House. The General Management Measure setting out the conditions for the authorisation is still to be published. That is what we look forward to, like the other groups that have asked for it. We shall, of course, come again to discuss this. Mr. Chairman. These were the questions that my group wanted to put in this plenary debate. I look forward to answering it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u45	Thank you, Mr. Kuiper. I give the floor to Mr Ruers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u46	Mr. Chairman. First of all, like others, I would like to thank the initiators and their predecessors for their comprehensive answers in the reply of 13 November 2018 and the many, many efforts they have made in this extensive, lengthy dossier. The initiators responded to my thesis that due to the large number of... I apologize.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u47	The security guards are already calling!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u48	I hope that will not be because of my contribution! The initiators responded to my statement that because of the large number of AMvBs, if I have counted correctly, there are no fewer than ten of them, the bill is a undressed bill and that it deprives the Chamber of the opportunity to give an all-encompassing opinion on the bill. I note that the initiators dispute that view, but also recognise that the Article 4 (2) (a) and (b) referred to in the AMvB means that at a later stage the Minister will determine at what number of nautical miles and at what percentage of additional costs an intended transport is not eligible for military protection to be facilitated by the Ministry. In my view, this is something that someone has already mentioned here, two important criteria of the proposal which belong in the formal law and should not be transferred to an AMvB. Let me explain. For this, I must go back to the need for the proposal and the fundamental consideration that I believe should be the basis for it. In this case, I believe that there are two key elements in the legislative proposal which are interrelated and which need to be weighed against each other. On the one hand, that is the legal interest of the State in maintaining the monopoly of violence, and on the other hand, that is the economic interest of the shipowner in ensuring that transport operations are carried out at the lowest possible cost in the safest possible conditions. The weighting of these two sometimes conflicting interests and the outcome of that weighting are decisive for my group's position on the legislative proposal. The fact that the State has, from a democratic point of view, a constitutional interest and also a constitutional duty to guarantee the monopoly of violence will, I assume, not be contested by the initiators either. As far as the monopoly of violence is concerned, I know the opinion of the De Wijkerslooth Committee, which expressly states that that monopoly is not absolute. I also understand that, under circumstances, the legislator may differ from that. But the question is, of course, under what circumstances, where, when and how. What I just said about this democratic point of view also applies to the shipowner who, as an entrepreneur, represents his business interests. But where and how do these interests of the State clash with those of the shipowner? And is this contradiction, as I understand the initiators, only to be resolved by making to some extent an exception to the monopoly of violence to promote the economic interests and wishes of the shipowner? What is reasonable, one should ask oneself in those circumstances. We, as the First Chamber and co-legislator, must ask ourselves the same question. Can the State be expected to give in and set a precedent with all future risks? Or should everything consider the state interest more than the financial interest of the shipowner? When making an opinion on this matter, all relevant circumstances must of course be weighed. I am now looking at the proposal for an own-initiative regulation, and I note that it is strongly inspired by the economic and financial interests and wishes of certain shipowners, especially the shipowners in the so-called spot market.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u49	I hear Mr Ruers making a balance between, on the one hand, the principle of the monopoly of violence, restraint and so on, and, on the other hand, the economic importance of the shipowner. That is what I have heard him call a number of times. That raises the question: what is the importance of the safety of the passengers?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u50	Sure. I'll come back to that later in my story. I hope to serve you at your beck and call.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u51	It's not about my beck and call, and I don't need service.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u52	If you are served...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u53	Then it's over with you, and you won't be standing here anymore, I can tell you that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u54	Thanks for the offer. But I'd like to return to our subject, if that's all right with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u55	Me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u56	Now I'm completely out of my mind, but that's another matter. You say you're going to talk about this later, but you're going to put it here as two interests against each other. I think there's something missing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u57	That will be the subject of further discussion. You have a visionary vision.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u58	The chairman's here. Same goes for Mr. Schouwenaar. Better luck next time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u59	Through the chairman. Can the State be expected to give in and set a precedent, with all future risks? Or, considering everything, should the importance of the State outweigh the financial importance of the shipowner? All relevant circumstances must of course be taken into account when making an assessment. If I look at the initiative proposal, I see that it is strongly influenced by the economic and financial interests and wishes of certain shipowners. I understand that this concerns the shipowners in particular in the so-called spot market. Of course, there is the danger or the risk of piracy, the violence at sea, which unfortunately still manifests itself in many places. I also believe that it is obvious that the shipowner should be protected from this acts of piracy within reasonable limits. So far, there are few real differences of opinion. However, it will be more difficult if we look at the proposed solution to prevent or combat piracy and thus protect the shipowner and his staff. For a long time, the State considered that the protection of public authorities by VPDs was sufficient and sufficient, but moved in the context of the present legislative proposal towards the conception of the initiators, by the formula "VPD, unless." I doubt whether that is reasonable and sensible from a legal point of view. After all, we are dealing primarily with an industry with entrepreneurs who, like any entrepreneur, have to assess their risks and adapt to them. It also includes the need to balance risks and operating income. These risks include piracy and its possible harm in the sector in question. It is possible to react to this in different ways, for example by choosing a different, less dangerous route, by sailing or by sailing in convoy, or by other protective measures in the form of more flexible and better VPDs. There is another element which I believe has been neglected, namely the self-reliance of the shipowner. After all, every entrepreneur can be expected to be familiar with and anticipate risks and dangers inherent in his industry. The same applies to maritime transport and the risk of piracy. If, for financial reasons, an entrepreneur who is familiar with piracy in a particular risk area chooses to let his ships sail through such an area, then that entrepreneur may also be expected to accept the consequences of that. If costly measures are needed as a result, such as VPDs or longer and more expensive trips due to commuting, in my opinion he should bear those costs as normal business risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u60	I have heard you say for a few minutes: this is the risk of the profession. Then I would like to remind you that the rest of the world has already given shipowners the opportunity to protect themselves privately. This means that the profession of Dutch shipping has become different from that of competition. So we're lagging behind our own shipping. Is that how you see it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u61	No. I don't see it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u62	How do you see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u63	That's what I'm gonna tell you in my story. You'll hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u64	You don't want to answer that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u65	I'll answer later. In addition, another aspect is the responsibility and liability of the shipowner for his crew. It is perfectly understandable and right that the initiators have told us that the family members of the crew are also very concerned about the risk of piracy for passengers. Of course, I share those concerns. However, attention should also be paid to the employment law aspect of the case, namely that an employer is obliged to protect his workers from work-related risks during work. If the employer does not do so, then there is a violation of the obligation of care by the employer, 7:658 BW I will say, and the employer is liable for the damage of the employee. In this case, I believe that the shipowner, who is employed for economic reasons, knowingly and knowingly exposes himself to the risk of piracy, violates his duty of care as an employer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u66	I would like to repeat the question raised by my colleague from the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u67	Mr. Dercksen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u68	I know that, Madam President. I would like to add the following. What does the honourable Member think of the duty of care of the public authorities in clearly high-risk areas, where shipowners are not allowed to secure themselves privately? Small ships can't accommodate 11 soldiers. That's a dilemma, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u69	Sure. I struggled with that, too. I have included that in my text. That's where you'll get the answer. This also means that the employee may expect his employer to take all appropriate reasonable precautions to prevent damage. Do the initiators, I ask them, share these views? Mr. Chairman. We have heard that it would not be feasible for the spot market to sail or choose other sailing routes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u70	I wonder what Mr Ruers is thinking of, because violence has not so far been a legitimate means. If he is talking about reasonable means of reducing the risks to workers, then I am very curious to see what they are, also taking into account that there is no police station in the middle of the sea.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u71	I am glad to keep the tension in, but I will give a hint of the veil to my dear colleague. I am particularly concerned about the means of preventing these dangers. I'll get back to you on that. Do we want the State to lift its monopoly of violence, or at least partially adapt it, so that shipowners can use private maritime security personnel, the PMBs, for ships wishing to sail in areas where piracy occurs? In short, the position of the shipowners, which apparently is also supported by the initiators, is that the State should "move" because of their financial business interests. This brings me to the much-discussed issue of the costs and benefits for shipowners. On the part of the initiators, it has been argued on several occasions that the use of VPDs and bypasses is not feasible for shipowners because it would be too expensive. The words "too expensive" often appear in the documents. Several parties in this Chamber, including the undersigned, have asked for clarification. I heard that again today. Especially from the latest information from the initiators and the minister it appears that there is little hard data for the argument that the VPDs are relatively expensive. So I too would like to hear an explanation of what is "too expensive." What are the costs? What are the trade-offs like? And what do alternatives cost? I didn't get enough information on that in the papers. The same picture emerges from the answers to questions about the significant damage. This is also a term which is explicitly mentioned in the documents and which I have pointed out: the significant damage that Dutch shipowners would suffer as a result of piracy. That's what they call it. I asked you to do that. The initiators noted that it is not possible to estimate the damage suffered by shipowners due to the failure of orders due to the lack of security. Then I'll ask my question again. If you say there's significant damage, I ask for it and you don't answer, how can you say it's significant damage? Can you back that up for me? You said that there was significant damage. You couldn't justify that on my questions and questions from others. Well, then I'm curious. In this context, it is also relevant that, on questions of our own, the initiators acknowledge that, following the opinion of the Council of State, they chose not to mention explicitly the number of nautical miles and percentage costs in the explanatory memorandum. They add that it is almost quoted that it is unusual for initiators to include in the pleading the exact number of nautical miles or the percentage of costs, let's say, costs, which have proved difficult for initiators to gain sufficient insight into the market to identify or explain a specific number of nautical miles or a specific percentage of costs. So it just says, "We don't know." It is said that flexibility is important in this respect and the flexibility required does not benefit by mentioning a specific number of nautical miles or a specific percentage of costs. They add that the cost of protection should not be so high that Dutch shipowners can no longer compete internationally. I get that. I understand the competition problems that exist. But when we ask how much these costs are now and how they relate to foreign countries, others have already said so, we will not get an answer. Again, please respond to these statements of your own that there is damage. And what are these relationships like? We just can't judge it. I have to conclude from this, for the time being, that the alleged costs of shipowners are used as an argument for the claim that the shipowners should be able to use private security personnel and that the monopoly of violence must therefore partly depart, but that these costs are not substantiated. Then I'll go to the state. Where is the State now in this? I have already said that the State has changed its position and wants to meet the shipowners far and wide. Is that desirable? Is that fair?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u72	Mr. Ruers, may I ask you to keep an eye on your time?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u73	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u74	You've been over it for almost a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u75	I have one more page, Madam President. I've been interrupted a number of times.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u76	Then I'm gonna stop the time stamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u77	Is that what happened? Then I didn't say anything. We do not consider it desirable, for various reasons, to adapt the State's monopoly of violence for the financial interests of a certain group of entrepreneurs, because I understand that some shipowners have no problem with it. If the State takes that step, it is highly conceivable that other interested parties, with similar arguments, will then argue for an adjustment or erosion of the force monopoly. In short, there is a danger of precedent. We think that is a serious matter. Another aspect that particularly affects the State is the following. Piracy is a centuries-old phenomenon in international shipping and shipping. Not long ago, the failure of the State of Somalia made piracy of that country a major problem for international shipping. A number of countries, including the Netherlands, have responded with major joint maritime operations off the coast of Somalia. Those surgeries were definitely successful. In other words, the piracy of Somalia was largely suppressed or prevented. Now that, according to the shipowners, I have heard it again from various quarters today, there would be an increase in piracy in different areas, it is obvious to us that the countries concerned collectively use their maritime capabilities again to suppress or prevent the new piracy. I therefore ask the Minister why this proven effective method was not chosen instead of facilitating, understandably, individual ships with private aid troops. In other words, greater collective commitment by the state to protect all ships, to prevent piracy, seems to us to be the first way forward. I would also like to hear from the Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u78	There is an interruption by Mr Dercksen. I've stopped the time frame now, Mr. Ruers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u79	I do find it special to hear that the SP is actually indirectly advocating a larger Defence budget. So that's profit. But let me ask you my question, because I understand you're almost done. I summarize your story in such a way that this is, to a large extent, the risk of the trade, of the Dutch merchant navy. I repeat my question: do you understand that we are also economically lagging behind if the rest of the world is able to secure these ships privately? And then there's the safety of the sailors, which I think is the most important thing. I hope we share that urgency. That concern is the most important, but then it is the case that if we do not do this and the rest of the world do, we also suffer economic damage, and so we can keep fewer people at work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u80	That is an assumption of yours; that is not substantiated. It has been asked more often in the documents, and I have found that no concrete evidence has been provided for it. So I'm sorry to hear you say that. I can't support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u81	But my question to you is whether you understand. Then the answer is no; then you do not understand. This means that you do not understand that if we cannot take the same measures as other countries, which do and which obviously do, there is an economic difference between the Dutch merchant and those of Germany, for example. You say that they will have to go a long way and take other measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u82	You probably don't understand me, or you didn't listen properly. I have just answered this question, and I am not going to do it for a third time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u83	Mr President, I...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u84	Mr. Dercksen, finally, but I'd like to go through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u85	I'll object to this. I just tried to ask a question. Mr Ruers refuses to answer. I repeat my question. Then say that you have no answer, but I ask you very clearly: do you see the economic difference between other countries and us if we are not allowed to take action on our ships?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u86	Last week I debated the same subject with Mr Dercksen and the same minister. Mr Dercksen asked the same question three times, and I gave the same answer three times, and he was not satisfied at the time. It's the same now. I've already answered. Only, he doesn't like it, and then he's gonna repeat that question for the third time. You'll see.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u87	But not for the fourth time, Mr. Dercksen. No, I said to you: finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u88	I'd like to hear a "yes" or a "no."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u89	No, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u90	Madam Speaker, I'm moving on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u91	There's been an interruption by Mrs. Lokin.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u92	I also object to this course of action, because you said that you would reply in the course of your speech, and you have now come to the end and we have not received an answer. It is clear from the documents and from the legislation of the countries concerned that there is indeed an opportunity to secure merchant ships with private security. You cannot say that there is no justification for this in the documents we have been given. Then you haven't studied the pieces properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u93	I studied the pieces very well. I have also seen that there are quite a few circumstances in which private security can be used. Just... I'm gonna go back a little further. I say: we must fight piracy where it is, through these large military maritime institutions, so that piracy is prevented. Only later will we come to the question of whether private protection is still needed, through the system you are proposing. That might be possible, but I'd like to get that first one looked at first. I say take that problem away and make sure you work preventively. That's the most important thing for me. This could well be done; there is a method for this. Madam President. I would also like to know from the Minister whether, in the light of the legislative proposal, the Minister or his colleague for Defence has actually made contact with other countries concerned in order to see whether, under the current circumstances, there is, according to the rules, an increase in piracy in various areas, which is possible and necessary in order to raise together, read, sailing. If not, is the Minister prepared to make that contact in the short term and inform the Chamber of its outcome? I would like to make one final point. There has also been a lot of discussion about whether the State, or the Minister of Defence, should not be more flexible in the VPDs. The Minister of Justice noted that the Ministry of Defence was simply unwilling to do so. This is an incomprehensible and unacceptable answer. In view of the working methods in other countries and the fact that a more flexible attitude of defence at VPDs, both in terms of size and speed, can probably solve a large part of the bottlenecks, we consider the defence position to be unwise. We believe that the State, including the Defense Department, can be expected to make much more efforts to achieve better, workable and applicable VPDs. We also believe that the defence industry has not sufficiently proven why it should not be able to deviate from its old position in order to make the VPDs attractive to shipowners. It is also striking that, in his position as expressed by the Minister of Justice, I am at the end, Madam President-in-Office, that he has not shown that he has taken into account in his consideration the fact that his rigid position on the VPDs can indirectly lead to an attack on the violence monopoly. I would like to hear the Minister's response to these comments. Finally, I look forward with interest to the answers of the initiators and the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u94	Thank you, Mr. Ruers. Let me just say that I've given you four more minutes. I give the floor to Mr Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u95	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The contribution of the D66 Group to this debate begins with the observation that the amended draft has been substantially modified in several areas. A lot of pieces have been exchanged in preparation. I also agree with the compliments for the many work that has been done. You think that's a ritual, but it's serious. I would like to add a compliment on the thorough and detailed answer we have given to the questions we have put in this House. My group's review will focus on the question of legality. Of course, it is always the case that when you get the floor as an eighth speaker, a number of subjects have already been dealt with by colleagues, but I would add a number of points. Hugo de Groot has already been mentioned. Free passage on seas is a right. Obstacles along the way are often referred to as "piracy." That's very old, too. Nor does it go away, and it has not left Somalia in the Gulf of Aden for the last ten years. Prealabel, I note that international law, we call Hugo de Groot, but we are talking about international law, and cannot be conclusive in its answer to the question that is at the heart of today's debate, namely whether the legislator should allow armed private security officers to sit on board Dutch merchant ships for self-defense. That really is a question that needs to be answered on the basis of Dutch law. And that's not such an easy question. The request for security of the shipowners flying the Dutch flag was raised because an obvious security question had arisen. I've already mentioned Somalia. The request is also legitimate, because shipowners are simply entitled to protection. That is also the conclusion of the De Wijkerslooth Committee, which has been mentioned several times today: the monopoly on the exercise of violence is a state monopoly, including in international waters. However, the key question is whether, and if so, how those activities could also be delegated, in part, to specific organisations on the basis of the law. The said committee considered that question in principle negative. She said that if there were to be another solution, the State should be the first to borrow it. I note that this has not happened, but I ask, just to be sure, whether the current situation is still that the State does not lend. I shall come back later to the conclusions of the De Wijkerslooth Committee. I will concentrate on five aspects in answering this key question. Is it a matter of principle, or is it also a matter of pragmatism? Can you look at it pragmatically? 'Cause can't it just be taken off with a "no"? It's like, "It's state monopoly, ready." Despite the firm conclusion of the De Wijkerslooth Committee, the Ministry of Defence proved to have a capacity limitation for this state task, for this monopoly task. For example, I understand from the exchange of documents and from the information we have received from stakeholders that this has been the case for many years. But it goes up and down: sometimes there are more, and sometimes there are fewer. My group is very difficult to deal with in the budgetary and strategic reasons why there is this capacity limitation. It will have to do with job vision, with priorities, with money for Defense. Perhaps there is also an extreme geographical limit to making available, which also plays a part in this. However, as long as these are reasonable requests, for example through the Suez Canal and around Aden off the coast of Somalia, and they do not see on the experimental voyage for exploration, but on commercial voyages, you would think that they should still be able to be met. The Vessel Protection Detachments, the VPDs, have been passed a few times. That is a provision that has been developed and offered to the shipowners who are requesting it, but I understand that there are problems. Mr Vlietstra has also asked for this in the written documents. I understand that there are about 175 VPDs listed in the Defence budget with an average unit of 11 soldiers. They're operationally operational. We just mentioned the norm of eleven. I understand that that is a defence standard of its own and not an international standard. It has also been said today that this standard is not applicable to small ships. They just can't be accommodated on board. So that's an offer that's not congruent with demand. Is this indeed still the situation? I read that it could be less than four, but I'm slightly confused as to what the norm is. And that's important to determine if there's a supply that connects to a demand. I understand that there was a capacity limitation, which prevented the Ministry from meeting the entire demand. That does not seem to be the biggest bottleneck anymore, but there is still an operational speed that can be a limitation. It seems to be taking too long. So you could say: the judge is available, but not de facto. Looking at the Wijkerslooth report, I notice that this was discussed in 2016. A VPD framework letter has been written, but apparently it has not been adequately resolved. Otherwise, we wouldn't be standing here. If there is sufficient capacity and sufficient speed, then there is still the demand of the costs. Are the costs prohibitive or not? And what is that: prohibitive? I would like to ask the authors whether they would like to discuss these three elements of the analysis and whether they can advise me on the actual status and the way in which we should look at this and whether, on that basis, you should, in the opinion of the proposers, break that monopoly. I have listened to Mr Strik's statement of principle and I am very much in favour of it. There is another question of principle. If the State itself does not fulfil its monopoly sufficiently and says "you can hire me at that cost and at that time," and if that is not congruent with the question, you could say that there is a duty of care from the State that may be abandoned. Then I think you should look at whether it is still so fundamentally incorrect under those circumstances. I read in the documents that the Minister does not find this a fundamental dilemma in his own answer to the questions. I think that's different from his predecessors, but I've read that. I'd like to hear if that's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u96	Mr Backer has a point which, of course, goes hand-in-hand with a monopoly of violence, and that, if this duty of care is not or is not sufficiently respected, that question can be asked. We are here to really assess a legislative proposal on necessity and proportionality and so on. With regard to us, the question is very specific: is it really so impossible for the public authorities to actually comply with this duty of care that there is a need to deviate from the principle of a monopoly of violence? In other words, is this legislative proposal necessary or are there any alternatives that allow the government to maintain its monopoly of violence?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u97	Thanks for the question. If there were such alternatives, they should be discussed and addressed. Mr Ruers also spoke about this. In view of the discussion that has been going on since 2011, the discussion on the VPD employability, questions still arise in practice, regardless of the theoretical question. The practice is apparently that there is insufficient supply or that there is insufficient use of it or that the conditions under which it takes place are too complicated for practice. Otherwise this question would be obsolete and it would have been resolved by now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u98	I cannot judge whether it is indeed true that the government has no other option to fulfil that duty of care, and that is why we are now in need of this bill. In my view, Mr Backer quite easily assumes that it is clearly impossible to resolve and that this clearly meets a need. But are Mr Backer and the D66 Group still open to the pressing question to the cabinet as to what options are available to provide solutions in a different way? For example, as has been mentioned, more international cooperation between Member States, other rules relating to that VPD and perhaps also looking at the causes of piracy and doing more about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u99	I will come back in part to your question in my answer. Of course I am open to that, but I do think we should also be real. After nine years, everything has been tried. Then you have to be real in the analysis. I also asked if it was tested or not. I have spoken to my colleagues and I read the debate on the other side of the House and I think to myself: whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. Anyway, I'm trying to analyze under what conditions, whether the necessity is there, whether that necessity is legitimate and whether or not the State can meet it. Then you can weigh that up. That's actually the question. I'll get right on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u100	At the risk of prejudging what Mr Backer is going to say. I don't think capacity is the problem. You yourself have already recalled that some 175 VPDs have been taken into account in the budget. The average annual use is 40, so capacity cannot be the problem. It's much more flexible, the size of VPDs and that sort of thing. My impression is that Mr Backer might adopt this a little quickly as a reality that could not be changed so much. I can't wait to see how he's judging that. For example, I asked questions whether you could not use your own crew, as with private security guards, or whether you could not solve the problem with smaller VPDs. I am very curious to see what Mr Backer thinks about such solutions, so that we do not take too easily the view of the defence that we do not want to look at other possibilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u101	I shall just quote the final conclusion of my contribution, otherwise this will continue. They're all legitimate questions, that's not the point. I seem to have given the impression that I find this subject an easy one, but it is not. I think it is a very problematic subject. I would like to conclude at the end of this debate that I would like to give away that we will look at it with more than ordinary interest and that we have not yet made a final decision. I think it is legitimate to ask the question of proportionality: whether the State cannot meet this, whether the State does not want to comply with this and how bad it is to organise it so that, for example, there is certification in this sector. It's been happening for ten years. I'm real at that. It's not a purely theoretical question we're discussing here. That is why I disagree with Mrs Strik. This has been done in the world for ten years, private security. We in this country are incredibly careful about this. It turns out so. The government hasn't taken any initiatives. There's an initiative law now. It is here for a long time and we are discussing its possibilities and the question of how legitimate it is. With all due caution, which I am going to discuss, I think it is a real point that needs to be discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u102	I welcome that last point made by Mr Backer. My question was: how does it weigh up the fact that the rest of the world has more or less already arranged this? I understand he thinks that's a very important signal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u103	I asked in the written procedure how it was regulated in the European countries in particular. I have also asked about the degree of protection and certification or control in flag states that are very popular outside the Netherlands. So there's "that's the answer. "There's no check on how this goes. In the detailed reply, I read that countries in Europe have successfully taken steps to achieve this, although not all in the same way. These are not uncivilized countries, so I think it is real to watch them do these things. I think we should include that in the assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u104	You will continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u105	Yes, I was just at the point of whether this is a Dutch alleyway, just to put it this way: is this something entirely outside the framework of other countries that are doing so? Actually, I was just discussing that, so I'm gonna skip that. I do have a question for the proposers. Can they provide practical experience, possibly with case law relevant to this debate? Were there any reports under those regimes? Were there any court cases? Are there any inspections that need to be carried out? Can we learn anything from that? Can we say on certain things: well, this is a path you should not go on? Mr. Chairman. Then I come to my third point out of five. What role does security play in commercial shipping? Are there any contractual requirements for shipowners to comply with? I haven't heard much about that. The Ministry of Defence's adage "you sail with our security or you do not sail" also has another side. Because then there is indeed no danger if there are contractual requirements that you have to have security guards or that you have to transport your cargo safely. I have studied this a little bit and there are, I believe, no international obligations to hire guards, but there are contract chains, especially the BIMCO contracts and the best management practices, which provide guidance on how to do that and impose obligations. Those practices, these practical manuals, are supported by the entire maritime industry. Shipowners will have to state that they comply with these best practices and that they only hire people who comply with ISO standards and standards. It's an industry that's been around for ten years. I assume that, should a majority of this Chamber feel that this is justified, the AMvBs will be set up in what is the practice for accreditation worldwide. By 'practice' I also mean shipowners flying the foreign flag of countries that do make demands. Then there's the legal solution. A.M.V.B.'s have been chosen with front hanging. Of course, that is always less solid than legislation with this house as co-legislator. That has already been said. We're always very afraid of that. My question to the proposers and the minister is: do they think that this is enough? I also wondered to what extent you could also make qualitative demands to ensure adequate safeguards. We just had a discussion about 20%, about costs, about miles. These are quantitative requirements, but you should perhaps also be able to set qualitative requirements, which are a more open standard that needs to be filled in further. Can we do that? That's my question. Mr. Chairman. Does the ILT have inspection duties at the VPDs? I don't know, and I haven't been able to get that out of the pieces. I do know that this is provided for by private security, if any. Then I come to my fifth and final point. How should we read the De Wijkerslooth revisited report in 2019? What are the conclusions? I started to say that De Wijkerslooth says: it is a state monopoly and that's it. But the report also states, at the end, under No. 102, I quote: 'However, the committee's opinion does not rule out the hire of private security guards by shipowners in principle. The State's monopoly on violence does not mean that only the government may apply violence, but that it determines who is entitled to do so under what conditions. The question then arises as to the circumstances under which the public authorities should allow the use of armed individuals." The advisers then continue their argument by considering that, if the government is unable to comply with its duty of care of protection, alternatives will have to be emigrated. Mr Strik asked if all the alternatives had been investigated. That is, I think, a derived question, which is justified. As a second consideration, the De Wijkerslooth Committee in 2011 considered the question of what answers other European countries gave to these developments. It is now many years later and you can see that we have just discussed that absolutely things have changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u106	Mr Backer referred a few times to practice in other countries of the world and said that we could learn from it. He also mentioned a number of points that could perhaps be better or more dealt with in the AMvBs. But how does Mr. Backer feel about the fact that so much is not regulated in the law itself, but is left to the AMvBs? Could we not also learn from other countries? In Belgium, for example, you can see that there are many more criteria in the law itself about the type of violence, the means that can be used, etc. Would Mr Backer not be in favour of learning from other countries to better anchor these safeguards in the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u107	Of course, I am always in favour of learning and improving. In the final weighing, I think the question is: how do you see the solution chosen in relation to better arrangements and how do you weigh it? The question I wanted to put to the Minister before interrupting you was whether, given the developments since 2011, given the considerations of the De Wijkerslooth report in the last instance and given the lack of international rules, he intends to give this temporary law, whether or not it is adopted, a follow-up to a legislative proposal of her own, in which the issues that Mrs Strik suggests could be addressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u108	Could Mr Backer perhaps comment on the desirability or the need to include certain safeguards and criteria in the law itself, rather than in lower regulation? This could perhaps be an appeal to the Minister to ensure that, should a law be passed on his initiative, the guarantees will be at that level. It may also be a measure to assess the current legislative proposal. What is Mr Backer's appreciation of the substance of the division between what is in the law and what is in lower rules?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u109	Of course, we always work as much as possible according to the instructions for regulation. Then we will see to what extent this fits in. Then there will have to be a final weighing-up that will also be made by your group, unless you have already made it, which will examine whether there are sufficient guarantees for the purpose that we want to achieve. Another point I think is whether the order is sufficiently clear. First, the question will have to be submitted to the Defense Department. Is it possible to find a different solution in the event of a dispute between supply and demand? That is also a point on which I would like to hear the authors. Then we will have to consider whether it can be sufficient. I do remember that, at least, the instruction of violence cannot be decided by ministerial decision. That is, in my mind, in one of the footnotes. So not everything can be delegated to a level that we as co-legislators would not want. The final weighing will have to follow the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u110	Mr Backer concludes his speech. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u111	And we won 1:28 minutes!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-11.u112	Greetings! Let me look around and see if one of the other Members still wants to take the floor in the first term. That does not seem to be the case. I'm suspending the meeting until 4:20 p.m.
