ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u1	We now come to the debate on the enforcement of the partial ban on facial clothing. I would like to welcome the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Kingdom Relations, the Minister for Justice and Security and the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. Of course, I would also like to welcome Members of Parliament, as well as the people who are following this debate from the public gallery or somewhere else. I give the floor to the applicant for this debate, Mr Kuzu, as the first speaker on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Let's get back in time first. This law came into being at a time when we were dealing with enormous unemployment. We were dealing with a social security system that was under pressure. It was at that time that politics felt it was necessary to show muscle, to show decisiveness. And what did they come up with? With a law on facial clothing, a ban on that. Actually, we see it now: homelessness has risen enormously, housing shortage is huge, health care is disproportionate, access to education is under pressure. What does politics do? To table a bill on several hundred women who choose to cover their faces out of religious conviction. This is symbolic politics in its purest form. It's a waste of time and actually it's also Islamophobia occupational therapy. I want to ask a sincere question. How many homeless people have been given a home through the nikab ban? How many starters have been able to get a home? How many people can pay for their health care? Everyone knows the answer. The answer is not one. No one has been helped by this law for an inch. That's only Geert Wilders, who licks his fingers and indicates where he really wants to go: a total head wipe ban. In 2015, the Council of State said so. He shunned the law: "This law is not necessary and violates the freedom of religion." At that time Amnesty International was against, the Doctors' Federation was against, schools were against and the College of Human Rights was extremely critical. At the time, all these opinions were passed by the PvdA, which unfortunately is not present today, and the VVD, on their unjust boot. At all costs, this plague bill had to be filed. Therefore, it is no surprise that municipalities, hospitals, transport organisations and schools state that they will not enforce this law at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u3	That debate was also held on behalf of Mr Kuzu, who was then with the Labour Party, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u4	No, that's not true. This law was dealt with in 2015. If Mr Bosma has a bit of a historical memory, he knows that during the discussion of this bill here in this Chamber, here in this Chamber, we have made an extensive plea as to why we are against this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u5	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u6	Mr. Chairman. After all, we could also predict it when the Council of State said that this law was totally unnecessary. Municipalities and the police will not use their thrifty capacity to implement this Islamophobia plague law, which symbolises opportunistic right-wing rotten policy. As far as DENK is concerned, that's just fine. As far as DENK is concerned, we're not gonna use police officers to slap ladies with a nikab on the ticket. They can be used much better to combat the drug mafia, to combat corruption in the VVD, to be visible in the neighbourhoods or to fight discrimination and racism. If the police and politics had made a greater priority of fighting Muslim hatred, we might not have had this bullying law at all. Mr. Chairman. Today, after me, all political parties will fall over each other to say that there must be a high priority in enforcing this bullying law. These political parties may have some seats in the poll of Maurice de Hond or the other opinion pollers, but they do not realize that they were destroyed. They have put an axe on freedom of religion. Women with a nikab or with a headscarf are harassed and ultra-right-wing pseudo-knuckle crews go on organized burger hunting to arrest women as a result of the possibility to execute a citizen's arrest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u7	I hear Mr Kuzu preaching freedom over the back of freedom. I like that. That's why we have this law. But what I might find even worse is this. We'll pass a law here in this house. There's no discussion about that. Of course, I understand that there have been parties against that law. You can have that conversation with each other, too. We did that in this house, but then we have a law and we accept it. I hope that Mr Kuzu agrees with me that we must also implement a democratic law and that the rule of law is not a FEBO wall where he himself chooses what he likes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u8	That FEBO wall can actually be compared to the way in which the VVD deals with the concept of freedom, because here we can also say that, under the guise of freedom, the freedom of a limited number of women is being deprived of 300 to 400 women in the Netherlands. That is the FEBO wall that we can talk about when it comes to the concept of freedom. Mr Wiersma's second point concerns the enforcement of this law. Mr Wiersma knows better than anyone that there are enough discussions in this Chamber about how we are going to enforce a law or not. Take, for example, the drug tolerance policy, which is extremely topical at the moment. We have tolerance policies and that means that we do not maintain them and that we overlook things. We can have a debate on enforcement and we have that debate today, where the contrast between the VVD and DENK is very clear. The PVV... the VVD yes, there is little difference... wants to maintain hard and as far as DENK is concerned we do not have to maintain.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u9	That is a contradiction if Mr Kuzu wants to preach freedom over the back of freedom, where men impose their women on them to cover their faces. This is about participation, about integration, about self-determination. Fine, if Mr Kuzu does so, but where we have passed a law here that sets a new standard with each other as a parliament, namely wearing face-covering clothing, we do not do it in public health, education and hospital, it gives us a feeling of discomfort, which we also see every day in all these incidents. I would be happy if Mr Kuzu said that there is a law and that we must enforce it. I want a clear answer. Shouldn't we just enforce that law? Or does he say here: the rule of law is for me that FEBO wall; if I don't want it, then I make the request not to maintain it and I join a mayor of Amsterdam who says, "Oh, let it go, I don't think it's so important"? That's not how we deal with the rule of law, is it? That's my question. And besides: it can't be that nikabfans threaten conductors, that they put videos online with which conductors are nailed? I hope that Mr Kuzu says with me that this cannot be done and that he also says to those groups: we should not want that here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u10	It is going to be a long answer because there are a lot of questions and assumptions in Mr Wiersma's questions. Let me begin by making it very clear that intimidation is not possible. Whether it is about those conductors, it is not possible, but I hope that Mr Wiersma will also say in his contribution that women with a burqa should not be intimidated, because that is the result of this bullying law. That's point one. Then there is the second point. As far as the FEBO wall is concerned, I will try again to explain to Mr Wiersma what selective liberalism means, namely that under the guise of freedom, you are restricting the freedom of these women. That is selective liberalism. Let us look very clearly at the facts. We are talking here about 300 to 400 women who, to a large extent, let me make it quite clear to them that they are consciously choosing to do so. That is also freedom if they consciously choose to do so. Mr. Wiersma shakes his head but he should talk to these women instead of talking about these women. Where there is coercion and oppression, you have DENK by your side, because we are in favour of women having that self-determination to choose to wear a nikab, including in the hospital, also in public transport, but also the freedom to take it off when they want it, and that we do not impose pressure from a political point of view and do not act like a costume police, in which we decide for people what they may or may not wear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u11	Finally, Mr Wiersma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u12	Yes, Chairman, finally. Of course, we differ in terms of self-determination. I have great concerns about that. I also hear some of those concerns, fortunately, supported by Mr Kuzu. He points out the right of freedom, of freedom of religion. Sure, but this is also about a feeling of discomfort and insecurity. Not for nothing do we have to have recognizable camera images of people in trams in Utrecht. That's about security, that's about you seeing each other and talking to each other. It also makes you feel uncomfortable when you can't. But it's also about being able to monitor that safety situation there with each other. It's part of being able to look at each other and talk to each other. That's perfectly normal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u13	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u14	Does Mr Kuzu agree with me that it is perfectly normal for us to be able to do so...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u15	Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u16	...and that this just weighs a little bit more than you can just ask to take off or get off that cover?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u17	But that's exactly where it pinches. Mr Wiersma pretends that it is perfectly normal here to ask people a question, but it is a belief and the inconvenience is relative. Mr Wiersma or people in the country may be uncomfortable. I can understand that when I see the nikab ban. But what really matters is that we have freedom of religion in this country and in the rule of law as we know it. That freedom of religion means that you must also respect the self-determination of women who want to wear a nikab. That's what my plea is about today, because this is actually politics at its ugliest. It is symbolic legislation which deprives 300 to 400 women of freedom and security and which no body in the Netherlands is waiting for. I will come forward with a proposal in the second term to repeal this useless and discriminatory burqa ban. That is all I have to say. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u18	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Wiersma on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u19	Mr. Chairman. Normal communication between two people, as we are used to in this country, and complying with that standard without discussion, is what this debate is about; seeing who you are talking to and what expression and look someone has on his face. We think it's normal for a motorcyclist when he steps into a gas station to take off his helmet to have normal contact with the employee behind the counter. If it's a nikab, it's suddenly complicated. Wearing face-covering clothing does not belong in our society. Not for nothing does a large majority of the Dutch population agree with this view of the VVD. Mr. Chairman. We are a very tolerant country and we stand for the freedoms of the Netherlands. That's exactly why we have something to say to each other about how you behave in public space. That is why we are now laying down this ban. And although not all parties in this Chamber agreed, that law is a fact. Enforcement can therefore not be a discussion. Wearing a burka fits, as well as wearing a balaclava, not in our open, free society. It gives a sense of insecurity. But, Mr President, this is just as much about integration as it is about integration.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u20	Mr Wiersma has just begun, but I would like to ask a question about the approach of the VVD. Mr Wiersma has already asked written and oral questions on this subject; I have read them. These questions are about enforcement in buses and in hospitals, where you are concerned about whether the standard is being enforced there. These questions were put to ministers Ollongren and Koolmees and Secretary of State Van Veldhoven, by chance all three members of D66. But the questions are also about hospitals. What is the reason why Minister Bruins doesn't get these questions and which party is Minister Bruins?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u21	Mr. Wiersma, what exactly is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u22	Yes, Mr. Chairman, this is a bit of a thing. Mr Paternotte has me all over the place. Son of a bitch! Frankly, about these incidents, too, if there were several incidents, I would immediately ask questions and also to that minister. There's no reason why I should spare anyone here in the cabinet. As a matter of fact, it is... There's someone from the CDA here, too; "happy but," I say for you. But no, I don't care, I'll just say in unparliamentary language, who's the minister of which. We have a new standard here, and you have to maintain it everywhere. I hope you agree with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u23	The Minister is here on behalf of the Crown, not on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u24	Apologies.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u25	Let me ask you a question. You say it doesn't matter to you, but it seems to be something else. You have submitted the questions with Mrs Laan-Geselschap, the spokesperson for the VVD. Mr Van der Molen of the CDA had also asked written questions addressed to Minister Grapperhaus and Mrs Ollongren. You sign them with the spokesperson and with the spokesperson for public transport, but you only present them to the State Secretary for Public Transport. You think it's funny, but should I assume that it's purely a coincidence that you ask the questions only to the people who happen to be not members of the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u26	No, Mr President, but it is a good thing that Mr Paternotte is asking that question, because then we can clarify it. I realize it's not always possible for the outside world to follow, but we switched portfolios at the VVD. In the summer, when we asked those questions, Mrs. Laan-Geselschap was the police spokesperson, so that's how we asked those questions. But I have no problem with it, again. I address everyone in the cabinet to enforcement through the ministers. This is a delegation from the cabinet. As far as I am concerned, the Minister for Medical Care should have been here, but the cabinet is about its own delegation. I'm critical of everyone, because this is a law that we have to uphold. I've just asked you if you agree with me. The answer has not yet been given, so I look forward to your contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u27	Not a party political question on my part, but a real constitutional question on the rule of law. My question to the VVD is whether it actually stands for the Constitution and the freedom of religion and whether it stands for the self-determination of women.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u28	This is a special question. If DENK is on the side of the VVD when it comes to self-determination of women, of Muslims, then I think we have done something very good with each other here. That would be important. I am about to ask questions to the Minister for Integration, who is currently working very hard on the self-determination of women and is working on an action agenda for that purpose. If you're gonna join us in that, I think that's a win. Then I hope you realise that this ban is not just about that, but also about the feeling of insecurity and discomfort. We have the norm in the Netherlands that you can address and recognize each other, just like we can do here. I think it's very logical that we can do that in the State Department, in a hospital, in a school, in a government building like this. That's profit. This is part of this society, and you should stand for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u29	So that would actually mean that when we talk about the rule of law and self-determination of women, DENK does not participate in the VVD but that the VVD should participate in DENK. Because you can't selectively explain self-determination and say that you really want it for one group. Does the other group, the group we are talking about today, have the 300 to 400 women in the country who consciously choose to wear a nikab, also the self-determination to choose how they dress? As far as I am concerned, that is the essence of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u30	Sure, but there are limits to that, and I have just named it, for example when it comes to the sense of insecurity in society. We were just talking about self-determination. It's not part of the Netherlands that men make you wear such a burqa. I don't care who's with who. This is about participating in the Netherlands. A society like us also has standards. We've established it with each other, and we've added new ones. Everyone thinks that these standards are very normal, and so you keep them together. Mr Kuzu is trying to mess with these standards. I just don't get it. I don't understand!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u31	No, I'll explain it very clearly...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u32	Mr Kuzu, finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u33	I'll explain it very clearly. In this country, the VVD is not about what is normal, although that is the election slogan of the VVD. In this country the VVD does not set the standards. In this country, the Constitution sets the standards. The Constitution says we have freedom of religion. That is also why all those institutions I was just talking about in my contribution were extremely opposed to this bullying law at the time. Surely it cannot be explained that the VVD says it stands for the rule of law and says it stands for freedom, and under the guise of that freedom 300 to 400 women in this country are severely oppressing? You can't explain that, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u34	And I don't think it can be explained that we have established a law here together, a new standard that we impose in society and which we all think is very normal, and that DENK then says: well, that's actually a kind of choice for me; I don't like that we passed that law so I'm going to ask the cabinet not to do it. That's not how it works in a rule of law! In a rule of law, it works that if we pass laws here with each other and have a new standard that we find normal with each other, it is not the VVD or the CDA or DENK that has done so. We've established that with each other in a law, and if we have a law, we'll enforce it. If you make an appeal not to do so, I find that bad, undemocratic and worrying. I think you should take that back.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u35	Let me make a final comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u36	Because I am being addressed personally and because my party is being addressed personally, I would ask you to allow me to give a brief response to this, because this is, of course, nonsense. DENK stands for that freedom. DENK stands for the freedom to decide for yourself whether or not you wear a headscarf, whether or not you wear a nikab. It is not up to the VVD or any other political party to determine what the norm is in the Netherlands. That's what the Constitution does.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u37	You've made your point. Actually, I would suggest that you continue with your speech, Mr. Wiersma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u38	It is good that Mr Kuzu believes this, because I cannot make chocolate out of it, I tell him honestly. Mr. Chairman. This is also about integration, about participating in the Netherlands, about the equal position of women. Integrating means adapting to society and all its standards. I therefore ask the Minister for Integration: why haven't I heard you in the last few weeks in this social debate? Something so normal, recognizing each other and addressing each other, we all have to stand for it. You, too. Mr. Chairman. And then the law. The VVD is deeply concerned that a very clear standard is being applied and implemented so unclearly. By such a law you make sure that municipalities make work of it, that the driver of the bus feels helped by his boss, that the police are ready and not obstructing. In recent weeks, we saw the bizarre situation that those who comply with the law are not only being beaten by nikabfans, but also by their own employer, and that those who break the law get away with it. That is exactly what confirms the urgency of this new standard, which makes clear what is normal in this country and how necessary it is to enforce this law. How can the introduction be so messy, I ask the Minister? Does the Minister agree that enforcement should not be called into question in any way, even in the case of its own directives? Why are you putting that janitor at that school, that hospital security guard and that bus driver in such a awkward position? You can maintain, but you have to consult with your boss first and, oh yes, if you haven't waited long enough and have been scared off, wait for the police. Isn't that how you turn a crystal clear law into a pacifier? Isn't it just the undermining of it that you're not in control of? Is the Minister prepared to quickly make new arrangements to ensure enforcement in all house rules?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u39	Mr Wiersma is right: the law is made a pacifier. And who does that? That's what this cabinet does. And who's in that cabinet? The VVD. I hear Mr Wiersma saying that the VVD sucks. I find it interesting to share the feelings of the honourable Member, but we do not buy very much for that. We're not some kind of support group here to share feelings, we're here to control the government, the cabinet. And in this cabinet is the VVD. So why doesn't the VVD just take care of it? Or do we just have to be honest and does the VVD actually think it's okay that it's not being enforced, so they can have a really cool story here in the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u40	That last remark is a pity, because that is the voice in the back of Mr Bosma's head. I won't forgive him, because he probably has a lot of experiences that put him in the back of his head. But the first is relevant. Are you going to make proposals to improve this? Are you going to call the Minister to do that? Yeah, I'm gonna do that. I am standing here today to turn exactly the same concern you have into concrete solutions. And I have, perhaps unlike you, the hope that we can do that here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u41	But we are the BV Parliamentary Democracy here. We make laws. We throw them over the wall and they end up in the cabinet, and that's what the laws are implementing. The VVD is in the cabinet and this law is not being implemented. Who doesn't enforce the law? By a VVD cabinet. Why doesn't the VVD enforce the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u42	If it were up to me, that crystal clear law would be implemented and implemented crystal clear. I have concerns about that in the wake of a lot of incidents. I'm asking the Cabinet why they've done this so messy. I called it "belabberd." Give it a qualification too. That's less important than how we end up. I think that's why we're having this debate. Those are the proposals I will make here too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u43	I just want to check if the VVD has read the same law as the law I saw. You give the impression here that it is a law that says that you should not actually wear a burqa in the Netherlands, that that is something we do not think normal. You just mentioned the example that the integral helmet or burqa cannot be at a gas station. But you know this law isn't about gas stations at all, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u44	Of course I know that, but it's the norm that it's perfectly normal that you can address each other when you meet in public space. I don't care where you meet. This law deals with the partial ban in a number of specific areas: education, care, public buildings. Checking the box: that's all right by the law. But that doesn't mean that I'm restricting what I find to what's in the law. I think that we could go a step further in that direction. That's not what we're talking about, because this law is this. But the normal standard for how you deal with each other is: if you run into each other, whether it's at a gas station, in the train or in a government building, and if you have an integral helmet or a ski mask on, but also if you're wearing a burka, you want to be able to talk to each other and recognize each other. So I think the example is important to indicate how we deal with each other in the Netherlands. Purely, sec looking at what is written in the law and what is not, is fine, too, but I am concerned about the standard that we find normal with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u45	Clear. Mr. Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u46	Quite confusing, because you are talking on the one hand about the enforcement of the law and on the other about a standard that is not at all in the law. But it is a good thing that we note with each other that you are making a plea about, among other things, petrol stations, when that is indeed not in the law. But here's what I'd like to ask you. The police are the enforcer of the law. What exactly do you blame the police for the enforcement of this law seven weeks after its introduction?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u47	The point is this. If you run into each other in a gas station, it's not part of the law, but you run into each other. Everybody thinks it's perfectly normal that when you wear a helmet, you drop it off. Everyone thinks that's perfectly normal. When it comes to a burka and when we talk about this law, we suddenly don't think it's normal. That was the point I wanted to make. Yes, you look difficult. You have therefore voted against the law. I was hoping I could have convinced you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u48	But now the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u49	The answer to the question is twofold. One: if you're a professional, that janitor at that school, that driver on that bus, I think you should address someone when that person is wearing face-covering clothing that isn't allowed in that place. Then you have to talk to someone and then you have to ask: take that off, or leave this place or this location.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u50	Is that about the police?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u51	I'll finish my answer, Mr. Chairman. It's about the total picture. If that is not always asked, we already have a problem. That is why my appeal to the cabinet is: make it clear that that is not an option, not a free choice; you just need to be able to address people, and that is what I expect people to do. Now, as a cabinet, make sure that you also adapt the guidelines that apply to all those companies to the law. That's one. Two, if you do that, you want good backup, there's cops. There have been 35 incidents. I can't even tell if someone has always been contacted in the D.O. I just don't feel like a cop, let alone a policeman is ready to help people, to help that professional. Otherwise, that professional will be in his shirt. Then he'll think twice before he claims someone. The chain, with the links that are there, now makes it complicated. I will therefore ask the Minister about the police in a moment, later in my speech, how we are going to tighten that up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u52	I'm gonna keep going on the cops anyway. You're saying, "If there's a cop standing by." That is actually the question you are asking here. But we have a very simple system in the Netherlands: the police themselves have the discretion to decide what is most urgent at some point. Is that the robbery or the report of a burqa on a train, for example? The police have very tight capacity. We also need extra police now to deal with drug crime. I think it would be wise for us to leave it to the police to decide what is most urgent at some point. If they get a call and if they can make it, they have to come. But what exactly are you going to determine for the police? Should the burqa in the hierarchy be given a greater priority than all the other violations of the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u53	Giving a ticket for red bikes or black riding on the train or not taking off your face cover is a suit for me from the same sheet. That's what the police are looking at. They make no distinction in their work in the sense of: today we are going to look for burkas alone, or today we are just going to look for parked cars. It's about making sure the police can and will enforce. I have no doubt she could. This is also clearly stated by the cabinet in the answer: the police can do so and the police have come to do so in the case of the reports that have been made. My point is that it needs to be reported more often. It is too often the case that there is a kind of tolerated situation where a person who may be on a journey with a burqa on a daily basis is simply no longer addressed. I don't like that. I find that undermining the law. You should feel the same way. If you're gonna make that call, as a janitor at that school, as a driver on the bus, you're gonna have to feel like the people are behind you. They have to give you certainty so you can talk to someone and not be nailed to the barn afterwards. That's what the police are essential for. I'll ask the Minister how he sees the succession now. Is that going well enough or is he saying that you can have a tooth? The latter would be my suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u54	Okay, continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u55	I have made that suggestion on this point. Maintaining this ban is not a higher math. Parties pretend they are, but they're not. Can we simply add this ban to the list of legal provisions, on the basis of which boas are responsible for the detection of criminal offences? Isn't that just as easy? And, of course, just in the areas specifically concerned by this ban, where boas are also given the opportunity to be fined. I think we're gonna give that janitor at school and that security guard at the hospital certainty and really the opportunity to do their job properly. Shouldn't we all want that? This ban is there for a reason. Maintaining is the only right follow-up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u56	Thank you, Mr. Wiersma. I have seen Mr Van der Molen in the Chamber. The question is whether anyone objects to him going in between or at the end; I don't know. You're okay with it? I call Mr Van der Molen on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u57	Mr. Chairman. On the way to the room there was an accident, causing an exit. I hope everyone involved is okay. Mr. Chairman. In the Netherlands, it is the norm that we can look at each other in all our interactions. This gives a sense of security and it is a prerequisite for successful integration into our society. Let me make it clear at the beginning that the CDA supports the partial ban on facial clothing. It sets a clear standard of how we wish to live together in our country. It is not the law that excludes people, but the people who consciously wear facial clothing, place themselves outside our society. It is also the norm in the Netherlands that we uphold the laws we have. The cabinet should not be surprised that the average Dutchman barely understands anything about not maintaining a clear, legal standard. The fact that action is being taken against enforcers and not against offenders is also something that one does not understand. And they're right. Mr. Chairman. The partial ban on facial clothing is now in force for a month and a half and the introduction of the law is not going well as far as the CDA is concerned. It is therefore a sign that we are already here a month and a half after introduction to talk about the introduction itself. I speak to Minister Ollongren that every law in itself has problems in the run-up to it, but last summer the CDA Group could not escape the impression that it also lacked careful implementation. Earlier this year I was in the same place to ask Minister Ollongren why the passed law had been waiting for execution in a desk drawer at the Ministry of the Interior for months. In July, the Minister sent interview reports to the Chamber which the press had obtained through a WOB request. This showed that several times the authorities involved in care, education and transport had spoken, but that it did not result in clear agreements with the police. One had to discuss with the police what it meant for enforcement. I therefore ask the Minister whether she considers the transfer of care institutions, educational institutions and transport companies to the police to be a careful preparation. The CDA would have liked this to be different. Did she not take it for granted that in this way there would continue to be uncertainties about implementation? Mr. Chairman. In view of recent developments, the CDA Group can imagine that the police have much more pressing issues than maintaining the ban on facial clothing. Over the last few weeks, we have seen once again what kind of united forces we have to bring in to combat drug crime, for example. I do not want to change that, but at the same time it is inconceivable that the only body that can enforce this law should the law be put in place before the law was introduced, publicly stated that it would not be available if enforcement were to be enforced. Because that is what the police have publicly indicated, and that is what, as far as we are concerned, started the fuss in the summer. I therefore wonder whether this hesitation in schools, transport companies and health care institutions has not contributed to this. I would very much like to have an evaluation from the Minister for Justice and an opinion on whether the police have made sense of it and how he is currently, now, opposed to the attitude of the police. Minister of Justice and Security, excuse me; the Minister souffles me from trade-K. Mr. Chairman. In Limburg we have experienced the case of the bus driver who maintained the law by denying a lady with burkka access to the bus and then his employer turned a finger on him. That's the upside-down world. I have asked questions about this to the Minister, along with my colleague De Pater. In the answers, the Minister states that the bus driver acted in accordance with the law. So the minister says the bus driver was in his right, not the carrier. But then I do not hear the Minister talking about a transport company that has dropped its own employee like a brick. During the debate on the law, when it had yet to be introduced, the transport companies indicated that there was no need for legislation, for example because they could regulate the necessary provisions in their transport agreements. I therefore ask the Minister whether it is not time for her and the parties to return to the table to ensure that the law is actually laid down in all these places, in agreements, house rules and other points, so that everyone knows where he is going from now on, what his job is and how to maintain it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u58	Thank you. Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u59	I hear the CDA now talking about a standard, a new standard that we have brought to society, and I just heard the VVD talking about it as well. But all the examples you give, about the transport company in Limburg, about the hassle in the summer, indicate that there is little need in society for introducing a standard from politically directed and imposed on society, pushed down the throat?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u60	No, not at all, because this is the norm that is quite normal in Dutch society. I regret that it is necessary for us to have to lay this down in the law, but it is still possible to do so. I do not have the feeling that Dutch society feels pushed down the throat. I think, even if you look at polls, that the support in Dutch society for this law is enormous. For the CDA, it's clear. If you want to integrate into the Netherlands, if people want to feel safe, if people want to feel free to use public transport without feeling unsafe, then this is a clear standard that must also be maintained.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u61	It is very easy to pull in the integration card. I've just gone into it in detail. It is also the self-determination of these women to make their own choices. As far as I am concerned, this is the ultimate form of integration. That's not what my question is about. My question is about the standard. The CDA talks here about the new standard in the Netherlands. The VVD talks about the new standard in the Netherlands. At the same time, we see the fuss in the country. We see the stuff with the bus driver in Limburg. We see the thing with the park with the playground in Nijmegen. If we add all these incidents together, there's no standard, is there? Then it is no longer possible to defend the fact that we are talking about a standard here?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u62	I do not agree at all with Mr Kuzu that there would be a new standard here. It is about maintaining a standard that is socially accepted in the Netherlands. This is our way of life in the Netherlands. At the moment when we are confronted with people who escape from society, that can also be done with a balaclava or an integral helmet, then it is time to reaffirm this standard. I think that the problem is not so much the norm either, because this law has broad support. The problem is that people in the country do not understand that, if, for example, a bus driver enforces the law, it will then be attacked, while it is the law of this country. I've asked the Cabinet to go into that more closely. I have the impression that if it had been dealt with more carefully, this kind of complications would not have occurred in practice or at least much less.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u63	Finally, Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u64	More and more people are wondering what freedom of religion still means. Let us really talk about the facts: it is about 300 to 400 women. We have a debate about this in the Chamber with a lot of people and a lot of fuss in recent times. 300 to 400 women. People wonder what the freedom of religion is still worth and when it will stop. What is freedom of religion worth to the CDA? Does that mean that everyone can make their own choices when it comes to their religion, or does that only apply to Christians, Jews and other religions, and not to a limited group of Muslims?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u65	For the CDA, freedom of religion is, of course, a fundamental freedom in society. The law states that these freedoms can also be regulated by the law. As a Christian Democrat, I believe that the limit of religious freedom is human dignity, for example. At the moment when religious freedom is used to suppress human dignity, the government could intervene. I would like to discuss with you whether a burqa is in line with the human dignity of a woman who has to dress as such, but that is a fundamental discussion. I believe that freedom of religion should not restrict coexistence. That is precisely the reason why European judges have said, on the basis of the European Convention on Human Rights, that this is not too far-reaching, so that the public authorities can set standards. That standard is that in social traffic in the Netherlands we can look each other in the face. If you think you should sit in a train with a balaclava or a burka, then I think we should act against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u66	Thank you, Mr. Van der Molen. I now give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk, on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u67	Mr. Chairman. This bill has been under discussion for some time now. I have just looked at the explanatory memorandum, which states that the purpose of this proposal is to establish a uniform and unambiguous standard as to which forms of facial cover are considered acceptable and not acceptable in which places. My question to the government is: do you think this worked? Let me be clear: my group is not in favour of the burqa or the nikab. They hinder communication and are therefore bad for integration. They affect social security and are a symbol of oppression. That is why we were able to follow the government's line: we are making a partial ban in public institutions, in health care, education, public transport and the municipalities. Enforcement is done by the police. So far, no dirt on the air, you'd say. Then why did the introduction of this law become such a mess? All summer we witnessed a heated debate by supporters and opponents. It was about a call for a civilian arrest. Others suddenly saw the burqa as a symbol of freedom. Amnesty was talking about self-determination. Bus drivers and other staff didn't know what they were up to. Nikabb Carriers were threatened see RTL News this morning; please respond to that message. In short, complete confusion. Does the government share the view that its attempt to make a clear policy has failed well, that the law has led to polarisation rather than harmonisation, that its communication strategy, so to speak, was not very successful? And does the government therefore share the view that it must now come up with a clear plan of action quickly? Does it expressly renounce all calls to take matters into its own hands, or to resort to intimidation or a witch-hunt? It must be prevented at all times. I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u68	Thank you, Mr. Jasper van Dijk. I now give the floor to Mrs Özütok on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u69	Mr. Chairman. It is not often that we talk about how the law works less than two months after the entry into force of a law here in the Lower House. Today, however, this is the case with the partial ban on facial covering clothing. As is well known, my group was not in favour of the introduction of this law. We weren't alone in this. Also, many municipalities, the police, public transport companies and hospitals - all bodies involved in the enforcement of this law - were unenthusiastic, and I still express myself with caution. Mr. Chairman. Let me be clear: I too would much rather see someone's face when I get on the bus or board the train. A facial expression is for many people the first form of mutual contact and interaction in public space. Being able to look each other in the face and recognize each other are an important part of social interaction. This social interaction is good for relations and contact with each other in an open society like ours. But GroenLinks does not believe that banning a burqa is a good thing, because in practice we are talking about a burqa as a means of promoting social contact with those who have a burqa. In fact, we think that the small group of carriers of a burqa will be pushed even further into a corner and will think: you see, society doesn't want us; they don't want us because we confess a certain orthodox religion. Nor do I think that a ban invites the farmer to make a different choice of clothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u70	GroenLinks is not enthusiastic about the burqa ban. But that's not very relevant, because we just have a law and a law has to be implemented. GroenLinks has a mayor in Amsterdam, Mrs Femke Halsema. She simply says: the burka ban is on-Amsterdams and we do not implement the law. Why does GroenLinks have so little with our laws and our parliamentary democracy?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u71	It is well known that my party is against this law. But a law is a law. He has been democratically established and this law should also be enforced in principle.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u72	Basically? Oh, he must be maintained in principle! Basically. That's nice. So if you drive through a red light and you get a fine, you say: the law should be enforced in principle. Well, we have that inside of GroenLinks! The GroenLinksburgemeester of Amsterdam says: we do not implement that law. She simply says: I am ridiculing the law and parliamentary democracy; we are not implementing the law. That's GroenLinks. The former Communist Party of the Netherlands, the RaRa Party, says: we do not implement the law. Why is GroenLinks an opponent of the law being implemented?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u73	What Mr Bosma says is not correct. What the Mayor of Amsterdam has pointed out is the social context. She referred to the triangle in which, when it comes to enforcing the law, the priorities between mayor, prosecutor and police are set.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u74	Finally, Mr Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u75	I can't do that much with that policy language. The bottom line is that the GroenLinksburgemeester of Amsterdam says: we do not implement the law. She calls him "on-Amsterdams" and says, "We don't implement the law." The Republic of Amsterdam; that's what's going on. How the hell can GroenLinks be part of parliamentary democracy here when it says in practice: we do not implement laws? The law must be implemented, Mrs Özütok. That is parliamentary democracy. GroenLinks undermines parliamentary democracy because its mayor in Amsterdam refuses to implement the law. Why? Why? Why?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u76	It is very wrong to say what Mr Bosma says there. The mayor has said that when it comes to enforcement, the use of scarce resources and their prioritisation is at the triangle. That's right. If you do not agree, there is really nothing I can do about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u77	The glass is half full or half empty. I might see this as a call. GroenLinks says here to her own GroenLinkssburgemeester in Amsterdam: we have to keep it going, hurry up, that's what we have to do! It is the principle of enforcement. You can't violate that. So I see it as a profit that GroenLinks here makes a firm appeal to her mayor. I hope the mayor listens to that, too. That would be good. My question is another...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u78	I can see that two others want to interrupt as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u79	I want to make a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u80	Me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u81	I hear the word "GroenLinkssburgemeester" twice here. We do not know that in the Netherlands. A mayor has been appointed by the Crown and is above the parties. We don't know any GroenLinks mayors. So I object to the use of this word.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u82	That is the point that has been made. Proceed, Mr. Wiersma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u83	Sure. I mean, of course, the mayor of Amsterdam. I am concerned that there have recently been incidents that have not all become known, but most of them show that people with often a burqa travel on the same route several days a week and that at some point there is a kind of feeling of: should we or should we not intervene there? Do you agree with me that, if you do nothing, if you do not address someone and do not intervene, does not ask to take off or get out of that clothing, and if you do not even impose a fine, then you violate that duty of principle of enforcement and that that is unacceptable?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u84	The law is the law. It says that employees can appeal to the woman who enters the bus, hospital or whatever with a burka. So I think there's clarity about that. So I do not see what the question really is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u85	If you put the question briefly, then that is also clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u86	Sure. They can do that, but if they don't, because they feel, for example, that there is no police available or that they can't always reach their traffic control system, if they don't do it for whatever reason, don't you think that the principle of enforcement is already beginning to be violated? 'Cause that's what I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u87	That's a really crazy statement. On the one hand, you say it needs to be maintained. But you know as well as I do that we all know here, because there is always talk in this house about drug crime, undermining, and you should mention that police capacity is being deployed on other priorities and important issues. I can imagine anything. In such debates, you are always at the forefront of demanding this. In that sense, I think: employees have a duty to ask. If it is not done, they can appeal to the scarce use of police. What those enforcers are doing is indeed on the triangle. That's how we arranged it in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u88	Finally, Mr Wiersma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u89	Well, then, specifically on this point. If, as professionals say, the following turns out to be: I can address someone, but sometimes the guidelines of my own organisation are unclear and I do not know whether or not I should do so and how I will be helped. Do you agree with me that we need to tighten up the agreements made with these transport companies so that there can be no light between those directives and user agreements on the one hand and the law on the other? Do you agree with me that this should be very clear and crystal clear?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u90	I'm not going to go into the question as-thank you, so I'd like to see what the Minister actually thinks about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u91	But, Mr. Chairman, this is...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u92	Then finally, really.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u93	I think this is a perfectly normal question. In my speech I asked for these directives to be tightened up, the house rules where they may not be compatible with the law. Professionals complain that they are being shamed because they are doing their best to enforce that law, but are not then helped by their employer. If that is the situation, then surely it cannot be that the directives that are being drawn up by public undertakings themselves are in breach of the law? That's impossible, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u94	You're convinced that's the situation, not me. That's the difference between us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u95	We often have debates in this house about municipal freedom, municipal autonomy and the freedom of municipal policy. I would like to ask the GroenLinks spokesperson if she agrees with me that the mayor has a different job concept and is not an executive body of a number of political parties here and is not a contractor of the VVD, the CDA and the PVV?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u96	That comes down to the same thing. In principle, the law should be implemented. The use of enforcement capacity is determined in the triangle of mayor, prosecutor and police.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u97	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u98	Mr. Chairman. There has been a lot of talk about enforcement. Regardless of whether you are in favour of or against this law: the law, which has been democratically established, must be implemented in principle. In practice, however, we see that this creates many problems. First of all, the police simply lack the capacity to enforce this law. Just this week, Chief Akerboom indicated that the police are under heavy pressure due to the extra security duties. The local leaders in the triangle, the mayor, the prosecutor and the police, of course, have seen this for a long time. It is therefore very understandable that they do not give priority to this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u99	"Don't prioritize the law" simply means: don't enforce the law. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is hiding behind prioritisation. But if I just look at what the police are doing, I see a lot of pictures and photos coming by of police toppers, for example in Amsterdam, who go to eiftars and Ramadan meals. Lots of cops have time for that. That's the priority. Prioritisation is not about whether they are busy or not; the priority is apparently that one does not want to smash Islam against her hair and does not want to maintain the burqa ban, but can be found at every fortar meal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u100	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u101	Is that what GroenLinks is talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u102	I am talking about prioritising the use of enforcement capacity, explicitly enforcement capacity. It is determined by the social context of the local situation. The deployment can be aimed at major nuisance, drug crime or undermining.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u103	Let me put the question a little more clearly. How does Mrs Özütok feel about the fact that the police do have time to go to all kinds of fortar meals? The former police commissioner of Amsterdam did. He was on his knees in the mosque. Why does the police have time for this and does it not have time to implement the burqa ban, which has been adopted here by the States-General?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u104	When it comes to what is happening in society, I think it is right for police officers to go to such meetings to get in touch with different groups. We are talking here about the use of enforcement capacity. Well, that's a whole different order, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u105	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u106	So if a police commissioner gets down on his knees in the mosque, that is, according to GroenLinks, "to get in touch with groups in society." But you can really get in touch with groups in society who carry a burqa and just swing them on the ticket? It's not that hard, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u107	If such an incident occurs, you can indeed fine them. I don't think people are kneeling in the mosque. I suggest you stop by sometime. I can just get in without a headscarf.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u108	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u109	Mr. Chairman. I'm moving on. We also see that the law leads to many uncertainties. What are bus drivers supposed to do, for example, when someone gets on the bus with a burqa? How does the transport obligation relate to this law, I ask the Minister. Because it is also undesirable for the other passengers to be held up unnecessarily. In addition, we see people being called upon to carry out so-called civil arrests. This leads to unsafe situations on the street, while wearing a burqa there is simply allowed according to this law. Also people who do not wear burqa but have a different headscarf are addressed or even removed from a playground. I'd like a response from the Minister to this. Finally, Mr President. This law has only just entered into force, but is already under wide debate. That is why my group would like this law to be officially evaluated not after three years, but earlier, namely after one year. Can the Minister undertake to do this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u110	There have already been calls in this debate about people who, for example, wanted to go to civilian arrests. It has been said that that is undesirable. But I would like to ask Mrs Özütok the following. My impression is that precisely the statement by the police in which she publicly stated that she did not maintain this, has ensured that such discussions have taken place. Do you agree with me? And how did you look at the police's ruling that that law might be there, but that they would not have been available to enforce?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u111	That also indicates the scarcity of our policemen. In that sense, this is really a dilemma. That is why I am asking the Minister about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u112	Of course, my question to Mrs Özütok went a little further. I asked whether she also saw the connection between the police's statements on the one hand and the discussion on the direction of self-direction that we then had. I agree with Mrs Özütok that the police themselves should be able to prioritise. That's what the local triangle does. But do you agree with me that in publicity stating that you are not available to maintain absolutely could not in the context of the introduction of a law?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u113	Maybe that was premature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u114	Thank you, Mrs Özütok. I now turn to Mrs Van der Graaf on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u115	Thank you, Madam President, for the floor. This is a two-tier debate. In fact, today we are debating the bottlenecks that are manifesting in the implementation and enforcement of a law, but of course that is not the whole story. We are also talking about the struggle that is visible in society in maintaining and not enforcing the Law partially banning face-covering clothing, a law that defends religious freedom. My group is not frivolous about this, but the law is also trying to ensure that social movement is possible in those places where it is important for safety or services to look each other in the face: at school, on a full bus, in the hospital. After all, in our society, we attach great importance to being able to look each other in the eye. We are not going to repeat the legal treatment here, but my group felt that the choice of a partial ban on facial clothing was justified. But now that the law is in place, it must be enforced. I also read in the explanatory memorandum of the law that the aim was to establish a uniform and unambiguous standard on which forms of facial covering clothing are considered acceptable in which places. I do not see this uniformity and clarity in these two months. The law's had a false start. Who's the victim of that? The bus driver, the official, the police officer and the train conductor. How is that possible with a law taken so long to implement it? Is the cabinet behind these professionals? And how does this relate to the local priority clause within the security triangle, I ask the Minister of Justice and Security. Can the Cabinet indicate how it has been consulted with all those involved in the enforcement and implementation of this law in the run-up to the adoption of this law? Mr. Chairman. If there are incidents or obstacles, perhaps in their own organisation, where can professionals go? That's what I'm worried about. Now take the driver from Budel. If I've read it correctly, he followed protocol for two days in a row, but the first day the traffic control turned the police in and the next day he didn't. A driver like that with his mouth full of teeth, isn't he? He feels abandoned at such a time. Mr. Chairman. This leads not only to discomfort but also to insecurity. The call in the AD for a civilian arrest is completely inappropriate. Last week, a video was posted by a conductor that made him the target of criticism on social media because he could not determine the identity of a traveler. Does the Minister also reject this taking-and-shaming? And can the cabinet indicate how to act in practice when wearing face-covering clothing on a full train or bus? Mr President, I will conclude. The Christian Union would very much like to express its confidence in the drivers, the officials, the agents and the train conductors who are confronted with this on a daily basis, but they also deserve a cabinet that is very clear about what is expected of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u116	Thank you, Mrs Van der Graaf. I now give the floor to Mr Martin Bosma on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u117	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, a point of order: where is the Labour Party? Where's the PvdA? This is a law of Minister Plasterk, a PvdA man, but they're not here today. Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen, our second youngest group in Parliament is here. It has only one seat, but the PvdA shines through absence. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u118	It's nice to see you're missing the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u119	Well, I didn't use the word "miss," Mr. Chairman. That's what you're trying to put in my mouth again. You always have to pay attention here, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u120	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u121	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Minister of the Interior is producing virtually nothing. In two years' time, the Chamber has hardly seen an Internal Affairs Act of its own. She inherited the burka ban law from Minister Plasterk. You'd say, "Hey, finally a law to enforce. Hands off the sleeves. Fingers out of the nose. Work abounds. With fresh courage. Get out of the hammock!" It is a democratic law. Once, in 2005, as the youngest servant of the Wilders Group, I wrote a motion on that burqa ban. This is a law that D66 doesn't want. But, yeah, this is just a great opportunity to show you're a real Democrat. There's been plenty of sabotage. Bus companies, hospitals and universities give to the law not to enforce. The municipalities of Rotterdam, Utrecht and Amsterdam, where the PvdA, D66 and GroenLinks make up the service, do not implement the law. The Minister will remain silent and agree to that. Our cops, who don't miss an eiftar party or Ramadan, don't move. Apart from Mrs Özütok, we all know the picture of police commissioner Bernard Welten on his knees in a mosque. They can do all that, but they don't want to implement this law. A bus driver is beaten by his employer because he refuses to bring a burk carrier. Transport company's dropping him like a brick. The transport company says that there is an obligation to transport; we must. Hello, isn't the law on the bus or something? Does the Netherlands stop at the entrance of the bus or something? Columnist Ephimenco writes: "Proficiat! The burqa ban has not been in force for three weeks and is already a dead letter." An example is the mayor of Amsterdam, parachuted by Ollongren. He calls the burka ban "on-Amsterdams" and will not implement it. The Minister is silent. I get Halsema, by the way. She doesn't have much with law enforcement. For six months, the Minister is silent in all languages, including Swedish. Strange. Ollongren will launch a campaign with which she will boil up her fake news phobia. Citizens are then addressed as small children that sometimes there are things on the Internet that don't add up. Go ahead! For example, the government is also looking for publicity with an app ban for cyclists. Ollongren tweets to keep her friend Femke Halsema out of the wind. This is how they help each other in the left-liberal women's circuit of our capital. Resuming. The law has become an empty piece of paper. That's intensely shocking. After all, the Minister of the Interior is the Minister of Democracy, the Minister of the Rule of Law and the Minister of the Constitution. How deep have we sunk that we as States-General should be begging the Minister for the law to be implemented? What state of law have we reached that the Minister of the Interior can deal with our parliamentary democracy in this way? If it's D66, we might as well turn this building into a caravan shed. By the way, that saves a lot of money in the renovation, but this aside. This liberal party believes that workers in a toy store should no longer ask: is it for a boy or for a girl? And D66 thinks Johan Derksen makes the wrong jokes. The implementation of a law, passed by this parliament, they consider a lot less important. Mr. Chairman. The citizen must abide by the law. If that mile goes too fast, it gets a fine. My question to the Minister is: what right of speech does she have in the fight against the mocromafia or drug crime if she herself has any fun in the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u122	Mr Bosma has traditionally started speaking to the Minister for the Interior quite personally. This has been happening since the beginning, because its Swedish nationality for the PVV is also a major issue. But when I hear Mr Bosma now about the alleged incompetence of the Minister of the Interior, I have to think of the law proposed by the PVV yesterday in this Chamber on the introduction of administrative detention. In doing so, you want to give the same minister enormous powers, even unparalleled powers, to lock people in the Netherlands on a very broad basis. You are also referring in that bill to "Our Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations." So can you at least acknowledge that there is progress in the relationship between you and the Minister in this respect?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u123	That progress can't go fast enough for me. Yes, it's our Home Secretary. That is constitutional and it is the only right way to designate the Minister. But look, it's gonna be a while before the bill that was launched yesterday is introduced. By the time it is introduced, there will undoubtedly be another and better minister. I'm an optimistic man.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u124	That is of course what the PVV has been doing for 15 years: waiting for better times, if you are the biggest party. Let me ask you one more question. We know in the Netherlands the principle that the police themselves decide what they think is most important at some point. When I listen to you, you say that the reason why the police do not always have time to enforce the burka ban is that you sometimes see the police visiting an eiftar meal. Do you think that's why the police can't always rely directly on every report?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u125	No, I don't think the police are in any use acting, because the political correctness has struck hugely, in any case with all the institutions of the Netherlands. You can also see it in the media, in the universities, in the judiciary and so on. The police are no exception. I just mentioned Bernard Welten, police commissioner in Amsterdam. His predecessor, for example, has collected signatures to get my group leader convicted. Mr. Aalbersberg is that. This shows that this political correctness has struck. That is why people are not eager to do anything against Islam. So the problem is bigger. It is the sixties mentality, which is in power with all institutions in the Netherlands, and therefore unfortunately also with the police.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u126	The PVV said earlier that all judges in the Netherlands are actually D66'ers in toga. I heard you say more or less the same thing about people in education and care. And now you say that even the police in the Netherlands are part of a great sixties-D66 mentality. Are there any parts of society on which you do not see any influences of D66?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u127	No. No, that's how bad we are. By the way, I'm not talking specifically about D66, but much wider about the whole sixties mentality, actually cultural Marxism...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u128	Good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u129	... anti-westerns, and seeing colonialism as the great threat. That's why D66 is launching a plan today to stop people from asking in toy stores: is it for a boy or for a girl? It's coming from somewhere. It comes from a crazy sixties mentality. Some people think Woodstock's still going on. D66 is unfortunately an example of this. Mr President, may I finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u130	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u131	Joop den Uyl said it: "If anyone who opposes the law comes to it, the way is for the law of the strongest. The law is the mother of freedom." The Freedom Party stands for the law and thus for parliamentary democracy. The populist D66 stands for lawlessness, randomness, contempt for democracy, i.e. the characteristics of the jungle, the mentality of dictatorship. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u132	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u133	Thank you, Mr President. The partial ban on facial clothing, referred to in the social debate as the burqa ban, is a loaded subject. Even Dutch feminists disagree on whether this ban increases or restricts women's rights. On the one hand, you hear as an argument: if we are really concerned about the repression of Islamic women, then we should not punish them or restrict them in their freedom. On the other hand, feminists argue that the burqa stands for everything that opposes the emancipation of women. For example, feminist movements from countries like Iran, where women are forced to wear headscarfs, are angry with the western feminists and also politicians who do not support them in their emancipation struggle. Mr. Chairman. In many countries where the majority of the population is Muslim, the nikab is very controversial. There are many uncertainties following the introduction of the ban. What can't and what can't, and where can't? People get confused. Farmers are afraid of civilian arrests. How many times has this happened, I ask the ministers. And how many times has this happened in places where the burqa could be worn? What are the ministers doing to prevent violence against burqa carriers and even against women with headscarfs? We now run the risk of people coming up with their own ideas and going to court. I don't think that's the point at all. Mr. Chairman. How do we achieve the burke carriers in a more positive way? How do we make it clear to them that they are free in the Netherlands and do not have to cover themselves? I have heard that relatively many converts decide to wear a burqa. How much is that percentage about and what makes these women decide this? Is there an organisation in the Netherlands or an institution that welcomes and supports Islamic women who no longer want to wear burqa, and provides information and, above all, much strength? I think that's very necessary. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u134	Thank you, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. I now give the floor to Mr Stoffer on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u135	Mr. Chairman. We're often herd animals. We'll talk or shut up if others do the same. For who dares say frank and free that the emperor has no clothes on? In Hans Christian Andersen's fairy tale about the emperor's new clothes is that a child, crying out in all his innocence: the emperor is just naked! At first sight, today's debate does not have much to do with it either. In fact, there is no substance to speak, but just dust to implement. There is a law, which has been in force for almost two months now, and it must of course be enforced. For anyone who accepts that the law, whatever the law, is broken, loses all authority to act even in the event of a violation of other laws. It is not for nothing that this law also applies: "Loading and ordering that it be placed in the Official Journal and that all ministries, authorities, lectures and officials involved in this will keep to the precise implementation." Precise execution, and therefore not eye-catching evasion. From this point of view, the SGP can only welcome the action of the Limburg bus driver. Anyone unrecognizable, cloaked in a burqa or dressed in a balaclava gets on the bus, acts in violation of the law and exposes himself to persecution. Anyone who gets on a bus or train with unrecognizable clothing is acting as hard as anyone who wants to get on a bus in the emperor's new clothes, without clothing. Mr. Chairman. This brings me on behalf of the SGP to the following questions to the Minister. One: how does the Minister reconcile the failure of the police with the duty of enforcement? Do you share the view that de-escalating action should not mean breaking the law? My second question is: what are the practical possibilities for improving the situation in which bus drivers or conductors are required to act? Isn't 30 minutes before the police arrive far too long for bus or train? Should there be no other solution for accurate enforcement? My third question is this. In response to the written questions put by my colleague Bishop, the Minister talks about a transport obligation for public transport companies of anyone who has a valid ticket. But how would action be taken in practice against people who appear undressed in public transport? Surely there is no transport obligation, then? Shouldn't that duty be reduced a little bit to give the bus driver a back-up? Are there any guidelines on how to react? Can we learn from that for this case? My final question, Mr President. Does the Minister share our view that my colleague Bishop's amendment that the ban on public transport would also apply to associated buildings or heirs was not so crazy? In that case, it would have been much easier to perform when waiting for a bus or train. Does the Minister agree with us that the law should be amended on this point? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u136	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Paternotte on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u137	Mr. Chairman. This is not the first debate on this subject, the partial ban on facial clothing, in popular terms also known as the burqa ban. As you may know, as far as D66 is concerned, this law, which prohibits the wearing of facial clothing in public transport and public buildings, would not have been necessary. We didn't see any reason for this law, and we still don't see it. Yes, I, too, feel disgust at this strict Islamic costume. But repulsion does not justify a legal ban for us yet. It is symbol legislation that tries to solve a problem that is not a problem. Anyway, we know how it turned out. The law came and that means that the law must be enforced, like any other law in a democracy. It's as simple as that. The law came into force seven weeks ago and the Chamber is already debating the way in which it is implemented. It took about fourteen years for the Netherlands to get a partial ban on burkas and the first evaluation here takes place very quickly, today. I think this is a record pace.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u138	I just heard Mr Paternotte say that there is no problem. I can go both ways with that. There's the side of security. Does Mr Paternotte recognise that people can actually feel insecure when they encounter someone with a balaclava or a burqa? Doesn't he really find it a problem when you do that in public, in a school, in an O.V. institution or whatever, and then you can't talk to each other and recognize each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u139	Sure, it's very clumsy when you can't recognize each other. I also say that I am disgusted by this strict Islamic costume, which I do not think is an expression of the emancipation of women. There are many situations in which this can occur, but that does not mean that a ban is the best solution. This morning, RTL News announced that we are now seeing the enforcement of the burka ban and also that the number of intimidations of moslimas has increased in the Netherlands over the last month and a half. Those people also feel more and more unsafe. That can't be the intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u140	I was just working on the specific safety issue. Self-determination is another point. I hope D66 doesn't think it's no problem that men impose on their wives to wear that. It could be that if you say with this law in hand that it is not a problem. So I refer to "no problem," because it's a problem if you can't talk to each other and recognize each other. If you can just sit with your face covered in a tram, it gives you a feeling of discomfort and insecurity. I hear Mr Paternotte saying that it may be, but I do not think it is so fundamental that I find that unacceptable. So I want to hear from him whether he finds that unacceptable. Should you be able to recognize each other and address each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u141	The reason I am saying this is because it is a very, very small group in Dutch society. I lived in Amsterdam-West for three years myself. In those three years I walked a lot on the street in Amsterdam-West and a lot on buses and trams in Amsterdam-West and only once I saw a woman in a burqa. If we are to impose a ban here, in this Parliament, and we are asking the police and bus and tram drivers to maintain it, we must have thought very carefully about it. But as far as I'm concerned, your questions are not relevant at the moment, because that law is there. A law that exists must be enforced. There's no question about that. The only thing I've done is take a look back at the reason why D66 didn't agree to this ban.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u142	The law is here. So it's not acceptable. That's what we said to each other. Then I hope you also think that it is not acceptable if it does happen and is tolerated. You need to be able to recognize each other and address each other. Face-covering clothing is prohibited. I would like D66 to confirm here that it is indeed unacceptable in the State, at school and in the hospital.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u143	A law must be enforced. Indeed, I think it is important that the authorities in the Netherlands should leave no doubt about this. That is why I said at the time that I thought the mayor of Amsterdam's suggestion that this law should not be enforced was wrong and unwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u144	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u145	Mr. Chairman. In record time we now have an evaluation, but the professionals in care, education and public transport have to get used to the law and the rules that go with it. It is also part of the fact that it can go wrong once in a while. I hope that the Ministers for Justice and Security and the Interior will support the professionals in this. For I see that the implementation of the law raises practical questions. In dealing with the law in the Chamber, my predecessor also called for attention to be given to this. The law puts pressure on janitors, tram and bus drivers and on the people in the emergency room. What exactly is their role? These people may have got the impression that they have to enforce the law, while the legal treatment suggests that this is the task of the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office. It is up to them whether or not to call the police. At the same time, they are expected to act de-escalatingly. What exactly is the point? What are the ministers of JenV and BZK doing to support the bus drivers, the janitors and the people in the emergency room in their task? Mr. Chairman. The police have an important role to play as a enforcer. I would like to hear how the Minister of Justice and Security sees that for herself in this law, also given that the police themselves decide how they use their capacity. 'Cause how are the cops supposed to make a decision? Does the concerns of current capacity also play a role if it is to be chosen? Are we going to a tram to fine a burqa-bearing lady or are we going to a store robbery? It seems to me that it is up to the police themselves to decide what is most urgent at some point. To what extent can we appeal to the police if she chooses the priorities herself, as her right is, and if she doesn't make a single move on the fine for burke carriers?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u146	What a populism again from D66: going after a store robbery or going after a burka. No, that's not the choice. The choice is just that a policeman walking down the street and seeing a burp walker, who just gives burp walkers a ticket. He's just giving her a ticket. It's as simple as that. There is no need to make a dramatic choice at all. Our police officers are walking down the street, seeing something that can't handle it, and they're just gonna intervene. That's what they have to do!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u147	No, that's total bullshit. A woman may walk in a burqa on the street in the Netherlands, even after this ban. This is not seen in walking on the public road. So I really wonder whether they have read the law from several participants in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u148	There's a report of a lady in a burqa in public transport. Let me put it right: in public transport. Huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u149	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u150	Okay, quarter falls. Well, then the cops have to intervene, don't they? Then they shouldn't be whining about prioritization, right? The same police who say they don't feel like it will appear on every fortar meal and will be at every Ramadan celebration! Bernard Welten, the chief of police, gets down on his knees in a mosque! You're from Amsterdam, so I'm sure you know him well. So he is there to serve Islam. Then the police will be here. But if something has to happen that Islam may be smearing against its hair, she says: no, we don't have time for that, because prioritization. Suppose the policeman just sees someone with a burqa in public transport, which isn't allowed by law, then the police should just intervene, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u151	Once again, I wonder whether Mr Bosma has read the explanatory memorandum to the law correctly. Yeah, if the police get a call and at that time have the space to respond to it, then she should. That's enforcing the law. That seems perfectly logical to me. But you're acting like the police have some sort of inexhaustible reservoir of cops, so she doesn't have to weigh up what's priority at any time. I've been in the city council in a big city, and that question is asked every day by the police. And yes, I think it is very good that Police Commissioner Welten, who you quote, occasionally shows his face to different groups in society, whether it's an iphara meal or a sports competition; I've seen him appear there too. Anyway, it has been a long time since Mr Welten was Chief Commissioner in Amsterdam. Nor do I think that we should now deal with this with the 2012 logic.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u152	I cannot escape the impression that Mr Paternotte would not mind as much if the law turned into some sort of pacifier.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u153	That's bullshit. That's bullshit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u154	And that's exactly what I want to ask him. I'm glad he's already saying, "That's bullshit." That is what we must prevent. It would certainly be D66's honor not to uphold such a democratic law. There are so many links in the enforcement process now. First, the professional can choose to address someone. Do you agree with me that in normal circumstances he should simply contact someone and ask them to take off the face cover or else leave the train, or the station, or the government building, or the hospital? Do you agree with me that it is not a question of meaning, but that they should simply do so and regulate it according to the directives they have for that purpose from their employer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u155	First of all, it is nonsense, because I have said several times that the law must be enforced. I'm just explaining the challenge facing the police. Last week we talked about drug crime in this country. That is a huge challenge for all law enforcement in this country. Today we are talking about the burqa ban, also a law that must be enforced. Every time I hear doubts about whether the police are taking this law seriously, I have to stand on the side of the police to explain that the police have the task of prioritising and that we should leave it with the police. I hope to hear from you later whether you think that should change or that the municipal police should come or something.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u156	You don't take that driver seriously, you don't take that janitor seriously!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u157	Mr. Wiersma, take it easy. Mr Paternotte was not finished.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u158	Then, as far as the drivers are concerned. It is not a question of not having any use, but I also have no idea that receptionists or drivers have no sense at all. It is up to them to decide at some point whether to make a report. I think that is clearly stated in the directives. After the introduction of a law, it can get used to exactly how you deal with it. Here too, of course, the conductor must make the assessment when at some point a woman is in a burqa and in another coupé a gentleman who has no ticket, blacks out and screams. It's hard work these people do. That's why I think we should stand behind them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u159	Exactly. If this happens and after you've asked someone to leave the bus, your employer says to you "Well, that wasn't the intention, that wasn't really convenient, that wasn't according to the directive," then that directive isn't right, is it? Then I hope that you will also say to this cabinet: we must make sure that there is zero room between the law and those directives and that it is not a question of meaning or of 'you could ask', but that it is simply part of the work of those professionals. We're gonna put that janitor and that driver in their shirt if we don't help them to act clearly and securely. That is what we are doing with the unclear directives that are now in place. Is Mr Paternotte, along with me, prepared to ask the cabinet to clarify this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u160	Do you agree with Mr Wiersma?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u161	If a law is only just there and if people are still getting used to the directives, then you cannot yet determine whether it is a success or whether things still have to be done. You rarely do that after seven weeks. It is a unique moment for us to have this debate here, but I think it is too early to judge it. What I do notice is that there are absolutely things that lead to discussions and that it is very important that we stand behind the people we expect to be alongside their regular work, without having extra time or support, who make reports.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u162	If you don't want to help that driver on that bus...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u163	Mr. Wiersma, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u164	If you tell that driver on the bus that we need to look at the law first, and you also say that you want to stand next to that driver, then those are empty words if you do not say that we need to bring those directives into line with the law. If that's not what you want, then it's empty words. Then you won't be behind that driver on that bus. I say to you: do so, ask the cabinet with us, with me, to bring these directives into line with the law and to prevent any discussion on how to apply them in practice. That discussion is there and you cannot deny it. You can say that we only have to wait a little longer, but then you leave that driver in that bus in his shirt and I wouldn't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u165	When I look at the legal process, the explanatory statement and the discussion in both Chambers, I see that everyone has recognised that this may well be complicated in enforcement and that there is a very clear division in which the reporting must be made by the people in the first line, the janitors, the bus drivers and the tram drivers, and then the police must respond to that notification. I have never heard you say exactly what you blame the bus drivers, the tram drivers or the police or what else should be done. In fact, you're asking if the police might be able to do anything else. That seems to me to be a fine and nuanced question. But if you suggest that it is the directives or the law, you should read the law again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u166	It is, of course, a fierce debate, but I think we can give each other a hand because Mr Paternotte wants to stand behind the performers, Mr Wiersma does not want to leave them in their shirt and I do not want their employer to drop them like a brick. I would like to know something about Mr Paternotte. It is indeed a search of how we can make it much clearer for the people who perform it. Mr Paternotte said at the beginning of his speech: I did not need this law. If we are looking for, for example, the tightening of directives or if we find out that we may have to puzzle about this law or perhaps some other law that would help people in public transport, is Mr Paternotte prepared to cooperate? Or does he then return to his old argument: I didn't have to do it at all? Because then I know that Mr Paternotte is not going anywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u167	I think the CDA made it clear by law experiments on pot growing: as far as we are concerned, we didn't have to do it. That doesn't mean you're saying it shouldn't be because you made agreements about it. In my case, I indicated how we were in it when the law was being dealt with here. But the law is there and then it has to be enforced. There is no doubt as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u168	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u169	Finally, there are a number of issues that I am concerned about, precisely as to what the effect of this law is as it cannot be intended at all. The law has been in the news a lot this summer. The Algemeen Dagblad wrote about the possibility of a citizen's arrest, citizens who want to play in their own courts and think: a burqa is forbidden, I follow the law if I work this lady myself against the ground and then call the police. It seems to me very undesirable for people to take matters into their own hands in this way. This morning, RTL News announced that there has been more aggression against Moslimas since the moment we have this law. A woman in Nijmegen was removed from a playground, while a burqa there is not forbidden. On Twitter this summer, grim calls were made by extreme right-wing groups to hunt and put civil arrest into practice. That's disgusting. I would like to ask the Minister for Justice and Security to strongly distance themselves from these practices and to make it clear that a citizen's judgment is absolutely out of place here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u170	I agree with what Mr Paternotte said, but I would ask him whether the same thing, that distance and action, also does not apply to, for example, the aggression in favour of this ban. I hear Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen and others say that women wearing burqa are being attacked. That really is not the purpose of the law. But I also know that organisations and people who have been involved in the debate in favour of the ban on burqa are also under enormous pressure. Does Mr Paternotte agree with me that the plea for withdrawal and intervention also apply to the cabinet when it comes to acting when advocates enter the tribulation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u171	Absolutely. I address all those who abuse this law with wrong intentions, and also those who suggest that a law should not be enforced, as I said earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u172	I also fully agree with Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u173	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u174	But should you not recognise that the drafting and implementation of this law leads to this unrest, polarization and intimidation, which we both do not want, and that the Cabinet must therefore do its best to explain much better how this law should be implemented? After all, this law has been democratically adopted and D66, too, states that it must be implemented.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u175	It is a law that has produced an incredible amount of publicity because for the first time such a ban has been introduced in the Netherlands. Of course, we do not know how many cases a conductor has gone to someone to say "you should not be here with a burqa or an integral helmet', after which the person has left the train properly and there is no story about it. That's why we're doing law reviews. We introduce a law and then after a while it is examined exactly how it works and whether it has been properly enforced. It is quite extraordinary that after six weeks you say that you know exactly what is going well, what is going wrong and which links need to be converted. It strikes me that in this debate I have not heard from anyone what exactly should be changed to ensure that no news is published. To be honest, I do not see that happening in the short term. I think it's too early to judge whether this law is a success.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u176	That's what I'm basically following. It is indeed a very rapid evaluation of a new law. In my view, it is no harm that the government makes it clear to all those involved that the police are enforcing the law, that we must, therefore, spare all other people as much as possible and that a witch hunt is completely out of the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u177	This is actually a question through Mr Paternotte to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u178	I very much agree with Mr Van Dijk that it must be clear. The police, together with the state's attorney's office, are the enforcer of this law. That must indeed be crystal clear to all those who, in the first line, have the responsibility to make reports to the police.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u179	I would like to endorse what Mr Van Dijk said, because I think the confusion is there. Does D66 agree with me that it is rather confusing that citizens should be asked to act, to talk to people in a burqa, to talk to women about being, for example, in a school, a health care institution or a social security institution? The bus driver, the teacher or the caretaker is asked to address those people. Wouldn't it be much clearer if it was really said that it was up to the enforcers to maintain and not to citizens? Because that creates the confusion about who does what.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u180	I think we're in agreement. That is also the reason why I asked the Minister of Justice and Security to clearly distance themselves from the suggestions that are being raised. It was also stated in the General Journal that a citizen's arrest would be appropriate and that it would be good for citizens to work a woman in burqa against the ground and call the police. I also heard Mr Bosma suggest what the police should do on the street.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u181	If you look at national government.nl what the law means and what is or is not punishable, or what may or may not be, you can clearly see that an employee of a healthcare institution can ask such a woman to leave or take off her burqa and that she risks a fine from the enforcer if she does not. But that actually calls on citizens, so care workers and bus drivers, to ask that first question and to act. That seems very confusing to me, because a bus driver who sees a lady coming into a burqa will be shocked and thinks 'Oh dear, I have to maintain now', which in my opinion should not really be his job.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u182	It is the duty of the bus driver to report or at least to address the person in the first instance, and to report if he does not do so. That is clearly how I understood it. And indeed, it is not the job of citizens, as you yourself say. That's clearly on the government website.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u183	To get the position of D66 very clear. D66 was against the introduction of this bill in 2015, now law. D66 now sees all kinds of shortcomings in the implementation of the law on enforcement. I can also largely agree with that. Would D66 therefore support a proposal to send a repeal bill to the Chamber, to get rid of this bill and all that stuff around it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u184	I find it unwise from all sides to carry out a legal review after six weeks. This applies both to the idea that you need to change the law completely or move forward as well as to what you say: after six weeks we can see that this law has failed. We were not in favour of the law, so I can imagine what our position might be on this later. But if we change the law every six weeks in the Netherlands, it becomes very complicated for people to know exactly what they should and should not do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u185	But at the same time, D66 just indicated that they don't want to see news reports in newspapers and media about all kinds of things that wouldn't suspend them. Then the only option would be to repeal this law and say, "This is just wrong. This is bad for society. This will cause polarization. This leads to contempt. This causes intimidation on both sides. Let's just stop."?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u186	Mr Paternotte has just said something about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u187	Yes. I think I've said a lot about that. I find it disgusting how some people abuse this law and also ask the cabinet not only to distance itself from it very strongly, but also to take action against it if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u188	Thank you. That also brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u189	I give the floor to the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u190	Thank you very much, Mr President. We have, of course, taken note with interest of the debate on the law on the partial ban on facial clothing and the questions raised in the first term. As you can see, we have three ministers here. I will deal in general with the law, the implementation of the law and some issues arising from it. JenV's colleague will address everything related to enforcement, police and so on. SZW's colleague will address the questions of integration, polarisation and so on. It is not the first time I have been standing here because there are questions from the Chamber. As the Chamber knows, this law has a long history. My predecessor defended the law in this Chamber. I did that in the First Chamber. At that time, we also discussed in detail the way in which the law was implemented. Mr Paternotte said the law was there for six weeks. Let it be seven or eight, but it has been in operation since 1 August last. That it's a law that requires adaptation from many agencies and from the people who work there, we knew. The aim of the law is, I say, once again to ensure communication between people in places where social security can look at each other is essential. We've been looking at locations where people get together and can't actually avoid each other. That's the basis for the law. These locations are: education, care, government institutions and vehicles in public transport. There, we as legislators have said, all kinds of face-covering clothing are forbidden. It doesn't apply in public space. So that's where the wearing is just allowed. Indeed, some parties have argued in the past for a broader ban, but the legislator did not ultimately choose to do so. The law specifically contains a partial ban. Others have honestly said that their party did not support the purpose of the law at the time. But everyone here says: the law has come into force. That's where we stand now. I refer explicitly to the history of law, because it has been clear to everyone that the starting point of the law is that an employee in the sectors concerned can appeal to a person when wearing facial clothing. That is the law, that is the expectation I have outlined to the sectors, and that is also what the agreements have been made about. For public transport, I made arrangements with the Secretary of State of IenW and the Minister of JenV. There is a specific situation, also in relation to the other sectors, which sees the safety of moving vehicles when getting in and out. Enforcement has also been considered in the legal process. The deal is, the law is, that's based on criminal enforcement by the police and the D.A. The role of the employee at the location focuses on addressing. The employee is not obliged to do so, but the employee can do it. In doing so, we must assume that I am very keen to stress that the employee is best placed to assess and act on the basis of the specific situation. The law is based on that and the legal treatment is based on that. The legislator has fully realised that we cannot go too far into this practical situation. We have to go after the professional on the spot. It is quite clear to me that this was the preferred course of action, even during the legal process. This applies both in the First Chamber, when I was there myself, so I still have the most fresh in my head, as well as in the Second Chamber. There have been speakers, members of both Chambers, who have warned against too hard or too ill-thought-out action. It is stipulated that de-escalating is the purpose and starting point of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u191	I see members on the interrupting microphones, but I want to give the Minister the opportunity to finish her story. I see you're okay with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u192	Mr President, thank you. The policy letter drawn up by the Public Prosecutor and the internal legal framework of the police, which Mr Grapperhaus will talk about in such a way, are based on that. I'm really in favour of this way of doing things. Enforcement is there to stop an offense. The intention of the law has never been to pass as many fines as possible. The purpose of the law is to adapt behavior. That is the purpose of this law. I see that the institutions and bodies involved are prepared to follow this course of action. They're doing their best to comply with the law. They've adapted their services to it. That's important. I have seen that it has led to a lively debate, including in society. That may and may even have to be done in a vibrant democracy. This social debate is only to be welcomed. But I think it is very important that the people who work in these sectors and who have to deal with the effects of this law can continue to do their job well and safely. They need to know that we are behind them. The questions that have been asked about them will be answered in a moment. I have taken note with great enthusiasm of the fact that I actually hear all Members of Parliament say that: we have confidence in those bus drivers, we have confidence in those employees in the care, education and government buildings. We realize that this affects their work, but we have faith in their professionalism and their assessment of situations. I have also promised earlier that I will, of course, monitor the effects of the law closely, in general, in society, but also specifically in the sectors. Now that we have had this debate with each other for such a short period of time, I would like to point out, in addition to the incidents that have occurred, that there are, and certainly also, some other effects, which there is, of course. That's the behavior effect of this law. Every incident that has happened is opposed to all the cases in which people have changed their behaviour as a result of this law. Women may have decided, as a result of this law, to travel to work without nikab or burka. That effect is much less visible, but I'm sure it's there. If we say that we want to be able to assess the effect of the law properly, I think it is important that we take those effects with us. I am not yet in a position to do so, because the law is still too short. If the question is whether I can say that the law is just working perfectly and that I don't have any worries about it at all, the answer is: no, I can't say that. But if the question were whether I think the law has not been properly implemented or not, my answer is: no, I can't say that either. It's really too early for that. I hope that the House will soon find with me that we must keep our finger on the pulse, that discussions with the sectors must continue intensively and that we must look at incidents and what can be learned from them. But I hope we will also say at the same time: we are confident that people in these sectors can do their job well, that we support them and that their employers are behind them, and that we should also give each other time to measure the effect of the law really well. This was an introduction. Then I wanted to answer the questions specifically.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u193	Short interruptions. Mr Van der Molen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u194	As a CDA member, I would like to say that I support those who are faced with the implementation of this law. I do not think that was unclear in the debate either. The Minister indicated that there was extensive discussion in the First and Second Chambers about the law and enforcement. It has also taken a long time for that law to come into being. I would like to take a look at public transport with the Minister, because that is where we have seen most of the incidents, which have also reached the newspaper. There is a discussion about this, and I am curious to see how the Minister views it. I use the word "maintain" for a moment not in the sense of the police, but in the way in which people have to deal with it. The transport companies say: we cannot refuse people. However, in dealing with the law in the First Chamber, you said to Mrs Bikker, who is now chairman of the group on behalf of the Christian Union, that this law does not make it impossible, for example, to tighten up house rules, for example in public transport. A little later, you also said that you assume that people are involved in the purpose of the law, that is to say, to ward off facial clothing from these places. How does the Minister look at such a report as: we have now got a law, but in fact we as transport companies can do nothing at all? Is that a claim that the minister could support? The transport companies do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u195	I am going to go into more detail later, because specific questions have been asked about this. I now turn to Mr Van der Molen's position in a general sense. As I said in my introduction, we have made special agreements for the purpose of ensuring that safety can be at stake and that there is also the question of the transport obligation, the transport of people. This represents a rather complex task, in which many travellers can also be the victims of a certain way of acting or not acting by companies. Nevertheless, I think that now, in consultation with the Ministry of IenW and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, a way has been found for transporters to know what they can do. They have to judge on the spot whether they do and how they do it. If they find that someone with facial clothing is present in a bus, train or other O.V. drug, there are several ways to deal with it. I think that there, too, we need to look at what works best in a general sense. Are conductors and others indeed able to make an assessment on the spot? One time, as we have seen, this will lead to a discussion about the duty of identification in relation to the transport company, and another time it will lead to an appeal to this law and the request to the police to enforce it. This may be different in different situations, but in the opinion of the two ministries, the guide on the basis of which transport companies are now working is sufficient. But again: the finger must be held on the wrist.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u196	I agree with the Minister that you should always look at the situation. For example, look at the care. If someone is in an emergency, you do not remember a person's good care, even if they are wearing, for example, face-covering clothing. I fully agree with the Minister. That's the trust we have to give people. But I don't quite understand the Minister's answer. The Minister said in writing, in questions put by Mr De Pater and me, that the bus driver, I would just like to mention him as an example, was right to uphold the law. Nevertheless, he has been fooled by his employer. So the minister says the bus driver does what the law says. However, he is being beaten up and now the Minister indicates that BZK and IenW feel that it is not a breach of the agreements. I can't get that round in a square box, or the other way around. Would you mind explaining that? 'Cause I don't think those things are right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u197	I note that it is very specific about this one case. That's okay, because there's a message about it. Indeed, in reply to Mr Van der Molen's question, I found, after I had asked the question, that the bus driver acted correctly. In so far as the image of the person concerned has arisen by his employer, this has been wrong. The bus driver did the right thing. In the meantime, the dome of the dv has also reported this. There's no misunderstanding about that. Once again, it is important that this one example is also there are a few other examples of a slightly different situation that leads to the conclusion that it is sometimes quite difficult to make the assessment. We must be able to rely on what is found on the spot, in this case by the bus driver, but in other cases by other parties involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u198	Finally, Mr Van der Molen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u199	Finally. It is about the outsider who sees a clear law and sees that the law is being enforced. The minister says the bus driver was in his right. The transport companies say he was not in his right at all. In agreement with the Minister, they still take the view that, on the basis of the duty to transport people, no one can refuse access to the bus. Then you say that the bus driver was in his right, but you also say: the agreement that you should not refuse anyone, I agree. I try to ask the Minister once again: is this not at the heart of the matter, which leads to a lack of clarity? Those things don't fit together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u200	I believe that Mr Van der Molen and I agree on what we saw of the bus driver and how he acted. He's acted as the arrangements are. I would ask Mr Van der Molen to look into that again, because I think he is now setting out a situation that has not occurred. I do not have the impression that neither the employer nor the umbrella of public undertakings has acted as Mr Van der Molen has outlined. I have not been able to see that. Maybe he has other information than me. I also said that I think we should stay in touch, despite the agreements we have made and which we believe to be sufficiently clear and workable. We're gonna have to keep a finger on the wrist. If such incidents or other incidents show that things should be different, then we must be prepared to do so. But I'm not there yet. This is not the case with the public transport companies. I heard Mr Van der Molen say: keep having that conversation; keep looking closely when there are incidents to determine if that is the reason for clarifying the agreements. Of course. I'd be happy to. But there has been no incident that has raised that question or conclusion with me, my colleague from IenW or with the umbrella of OB companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u201	Good. I would like to make a general comment on the interruptions. They must be really short and not a summary of what has been said before or what is in the party programme. Just short, because otherwise we have a big problem with the planning. Mr. Wiersma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u202	If I could read the party program out of my head, I would do it right now, Mr President. But you're lucky, I can't. Mr Van der Molen's question follows on. I understand what the minister says about the finger on the wrist. I think that's what we want here, too. It doesn't take an incident to have any clarity. Sometimes that's part of a law...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u203	Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u204	Oh, yeah. But in this case I'm curious to see some more coloration in the incidents we know in the O.V. Thirty-five reports have been made. Can the Minister state what is usually the case there? Is anyone being addressed? What are the specific situations that we see there why this does not happen? And how is it that sometimes for two weeks someone has been traveling on the same journey day, day out and actually being tolerated in that place?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u205	Period. Yes, very good. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u206	Ah, Chairman. I'm here all day, by the way. You know that, don't you? It doesn't make anything for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u207	I know. You're always available.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u208	The incidents in the D.A. Let me explain what I just said. We also read about incidents in the media. But what we don't read, of course, is the behavior effect that the law sees on it: those who choose to adapt their behavior since August 1st and who respect the law properly. You can't see that, but of course that's happening. On the other hand, there are also cases where people consciously or unconsciously did not comply with the law and were addressed to it. The incidents that have reached the media are mainly in the field of public health. I can't yet see... Again, we're keeping up with that as best we can. In the O.V., we seem to have a reasonable picture of that. But there's no line in it. It's not one type of incident as outlined here. It does not occur in a general sense. I am not aware of the fact that what the Wiersma just sketched occurs extensively in public transport, creating a kind of toleration structure. On the contrary. If that were the case, it would be a reason for the transport company to do something about it and to consult the police to ensure that the law can be enforced.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u209	Sure, that could be a reason. I am therefore looking for a little more coloration in the reports that have been kept, also because we do not have them in education, care and government buildings. My question to the Minister is how do we keep our finger on the pulse there? Specifically about the reports we do have, I wonder if anyone in those 35 situations has really been addressed. Did someone say, "Would you mind taking off the cover or else getting out of here?" Has that happened in all these cases, how often not and why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u210	Mr Wiersma is actually entering the domain that I think we should leave to the professionals on the spot, in this case the bus drivers and conductors. Yeah, people are on it. That's what we've seen in the coverage. This has sometimes led to delays in public transport, for example. That has sometimes led to the police taking action at a subsequent stop, precisely in order not to cause any delay. The cases we know are all actually different. There's not a single line to pull in. But we are sure that it has occurred, and we know more about public transport than other sectors.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u211	Finally, Mr Wiersma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u212	My question was whether we should not keep up with those other sectors, otherwise this answer will still be the same in two months, six months or two years. We're holding the finger on the wrist. But if I can't put that finger on the wrist because we don't know, from reports, numbers, feelings or conversations you're having, how that works out in practice, then I can't judge it. My feeling now based on incidents is that it is unclear. You say that's not so bad, and we have to take a look at it. But in the meantime, if you cannot tell me what has gone wrong with specific reports, not from incidents that have already been recorded and not at all from incidents that we do not even know about, then I cannot do very much with them. What can you do to better reflect this information to me in the coming months?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u213	That is, of course, a fair question. As I said, we are quite soon after the introduction of this law to have this debate with each other, after having already discussed this at oral Question Time. Again, I understand that. Because the incidents attract attention and there is a social debate about it, which is also good. But the law is limited on the one hand, as it concerns a limited number of sectors. On the other hand, the law is very extensive. We have thousands, perhaps tens of thousands of buildings in the Netherlands that are governed by this law. The same applies to buses, trams, trains and so on. So the law is also very comprehensive. We are, of course, trying, in consultation with the sectors and other departments, to keep an eye on what is happening, even if it has not led to a police report. But the law provides for an evaluation after three years. The aim is to know between now and three years whether the law has been properly applied, worked out in practice and has the intended behavioural effect. So that is actually what we had set out to do, and not to have this debate in this Chamber every seven weeks, indeed on the basis of incidents, but not on the basis of a complete picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u214	No, Mr. Wiersma, no way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u215	But...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u216	Well, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u217	I understand that a period of seven weeks is very short, but three years is also very long. As far as I am concerned, can you inform the Chamber on this every quarter on a regular basis, but if it is required to do so every six months, is that correct?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u218	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u219	I will indeed consider the question. I understand that at least the VVD needs more information on this. I will understand with my colleagues who are responsible for the sectors in which we can shape them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u220	Is the essence of the problem not right that we should put the enforcement on citizens, so the bus driver, the teacher, the care worker, who are not trained at all to address people in a burqa to the fact that they should not be there?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u221	Well, one correction: these employees are not the enforcers. They are the professionals who are working to ensure that rules are properly applied in their own sector. If there's enforcement, we're really talking about the police. Nevertheless, these are the agreements that have been made with sectors, which are expected of employees in these sectors to appeal to these people. Personally, I think these employees are very capable of doing so, because they also appeal to people for all kinds of other types of behaviour, for example when checking tickets or combating nuisances. That's exactly what these professionals do well. But this task is new to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u222	Yes. Mrs. Van Kooten again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u223	And this new task creates a great deal of uncertainty among the staff of health care institutions. Who's gonna talk to that lady and what's gonna happen next? Isn't it much clearer if the capacity problem in the police isn't laid down by all those employees, but it's just said: that's what the enforcers are, and we're not going to let civilians talk to people. Isn't there the far greater danger of civilian arrests, which gives women in burqa a very unsafe feeling?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u224	I should just like to reply to the first part of Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen's question, because the second part will soon be dealt with by Mr Grapperhaus. You're allowed to ask employees in these sectors to contact people? The answer to that is yes. There has been extensive consultation with the sectors. The reports the Chamber has seen are from the discussions with the domes. But there is, of course, a world of carriers, schools, hospitals. This must be regulated up to the capillaries of such organisations. That's why it took some time. But these sectors have said yes to this. They have said: okay, in this way we think we are able to make our contribution that this law requires of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u225	Yeah? Mrs Özütok.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u226	We see again today, after the introduction of the law two months ago, that the implementation of the law has many shortcomings. This implementation is problematic. Does the Minister agree with me that, given this situation, we should not wait another three years for an evaluation but rather an evaluation, and perhaps a mid-term evaluation, after a year, for example? How does the Minister feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u227	In the legal process, it has been said: an evaluation after three years. I believe that there was originally a slightly longer period of time, but I have to check that out. In the end, it has been said: let us take a period of three years. But I have just said to Mr Wiersma and others that I am of course prepared to keep my finger on the pulse. I think three years is a very reasonable period, but I have just said to Mr Wiersma that I am prepared to see if we can report to the Chamber earlier than three years from now on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u228	The Minister spoke about the behavioural effects. Since she has spoken about these behavioural effects, I would also like to ask her whether she has taken note of the RTL News article which states that this law also leads to an inverse effect on behaviour, namely that a lot of Muslim women, whether or not nikab wearing, feel unsafe. And linked to this: is it willing to comment explicitly on this during the measurement of behavioural effects?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u229	I told you, the three of us are here today from the cabinet side. I know that Mr Koolmees would like to deal with this point later. So I hope Mr Kuzu will be happy to leave this to him, because after all he is here all morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u230	Since this Minister must also have something to do today, I am fine with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u231	There are a number of specific questions about implementation. Mr Van Dijk asked for that, but of course others did. I think we've already exchanged a lot of things about that in the event of interruption. I have already stressed that seven weeks is too short to be able to properly assess the effects. I have also said that, in addition to media coverage, there is, of course, much more going on in practice. So in other words, it's too soon. I would like to make this point, because I have just heard remarks about Amsterdam and the G4 in the debate on the interruption. I think that the image that might have come up there is, in part, an old image. This has already been discussed in Oral Question Time. The municipalities are well informed and have adapted their operations. There's good contact with the municipalities. All governments see the importance of properly implementing this law. I have already discussed in detail how there has been contact with the domes and the sectors. Perhaps it is good to stress once again that it is also about the other ministries that are doing this. Mrs. Van der Graaf asked for that. Conversation manuals, infographics and Q&A's were made for that. That's kind of the capillaries I was just talking about. That has been done very concretely and very specifically. Again, we will continue to do so. That didn't stop on August 1st. I would like to comment on the house rules, because Mr Wiersma said that it would of course fall into house rules. Perhaps they need to be adapted already and they need to say more about enforcement and so on. We go a long way in conducting consultations with the domes, and with them with the sectors, but the house rules must be established by the institutions and the companies themselves. It is not the case that the departments sit in the chair of these institutions and write the house rules. They do that all by themselves. This has been said and emphasized here in this Chamber, also by the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u232	I've been writing along for a while. The minister says: all municipalities see the importance of implementing the law. That's great, but we've all seen the statements of the mayor of Amsterdam. She says: the burka ban remains on-Amsterdams. She's not taking back any of that. Anyone who expected an apology will be betrayed. She's just saying clearly: I'm not running it. How does the Minister then know to report here that all the municipalities suddenly see the importance of implementing the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u233	My reference to the debate that has already been held here at that time was Mr Knops here on my behalf. There are no municipalities in the Netherlands that do not implement the law, including this law. This applies to the G4 and also to the municipality of Amsterdam. And that's the way it should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u234	Yes, it was indeed disappointing at the time that the Minister was not there to say that. But Mrs Halsema, the mayor, is clear: we do not implement the law. Then the Secretary of State or the Minister can say that that is not true, but the mayor simply says: I am not executing him. Then she may be able to swallow something for the outside guard, but in the triangle, of course, she is talking about where the resources are being used. This is a fact and the Republic of Amsterdam is simply established and says: we do not implement this law of The Hague. That's just a fact, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u235	In June, on behalf of the G4 members, I would almost like to say that it is being carried out within the G4 as well. Mr Grapperhaus will perhaps go into more detail on how that works with the triangle and the like, but there can really be no misunderstanding about that. That is why I wanted to emphasise it. Then there are a few specific questions. Mrs Özütok asked about the relationship between this law and the obligation to transport in public transport companies. Both apply. So both standards in that law also apply. This means that employees on the ground should actually decide and assess how to act. That's what's gonna happen. We have also seen an example of this in which it was mainly about the obligation of transport in relation to someone with facial clothing. There are also examples where it was mainly about the law on facial clothing. It is therefore up to them to see which law at that time offers them an opportunity for action or not. Mr. Chairman. I believe that Mr Stoffer also asked about the corresponding buildings in the building. The law has made the choice to choose only the train, bus, tram and so on and not the stations. Given how it was discussed at the time, the reason was that people at stations, for example, have more space to avoid each other. It was just about those spaces where people can't actually do that. Stations also have a public function and not only the travel motive. People can also have other reasons to be at a station. That is the choice that was made at the time. With Mrs Van der Graaf I find naming-and-shaming by professionals whether a bus driver or another professional in one of the sectors is not the way to deal with this law. Actually, I find the opposite. On the contrary, we must give our full support to the workers in these sectors. That is what I expect from the employers, and I will do it myself. I also welcome the fact that, in the case where Mrs Van der Graaf might have referred to, NS has made a public statement and has said that it should not have done so. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the evaluation. I have already said that it will take place in three years' time, but I will look for a way to inform the Chamber regularly about this. Mr. Chairman. I hope I have answered all the questions that have been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u236	The government is actually saying: the law has just been introduced, give us a moment, the evaluation is coming. I can imagine. At the same time, I would like to ask the government whether it thinks the introduction of this law is a textbook example of how to introduce a law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u237	That's a question I can't answer in general, of course. It is a rather specific law, which has also been recognised during the legal process that there could still be some problems in its implementation. When I look back at that legal treatment and see that common sense should prevail over the blindly maintaining it, I quote Mr Rombouts from the First Chamber, I actually think that what has happened is also what we could have foreseen during the legal treatment. I would say that, after less than two months, it is too early to have a final judgment, but it is also too early to say that it is a textbook example of the implementation of legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u238	But the Minister said: our goal is actually to bring about a change in behaviour. In my view, we are also very much in agreement that a burqa or a nikab is very undesirable. So it would be worth a sweet thing to me if these garments were to be worn less and eventually no longer worn. That would be very nice. But if you look at the fuss of last summer, the polarization and the people who have become more fanatic in wearing it, do you think that goal has come closer? Do you agree that it has not been possible, that it has actually gone the wrong way and that we must do everything we can to get it to a different direction?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u239	However, on the first part of Mr Van Dijk's question: the law does not see a total ban. This law can therefore never have the general aim of wearing less face-covering clothing, including burqas and nikabs. That's not what the law says. I say that the law has envisaged a change of behavior in those specific sectors on which the law sees it, and thus in spaces where people meet and where personal face-to-face contact is important. That's what the law is for. Then the second part of the question. I am sure Mr Koolmees will respond to that. In fact, I think it is important that, if we keep that finger on the wrist, we keep an eye on this too. For if that would be the effect again, I cannot yet see it, but I also read the reports that Mr Van Dijk is reading.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u240	However, I would like to come back to the issue of public transport and the discussion we have had about whether staff also have the basis for refusing people access to public transport. Transport companies rely on the obligation to provide transport services. The Minister agrees. However, in reply to the questions I asked the Minister on this subject, the Minister states that "in the event of nuisance, staff are entitled to refuse access by way of derogation from the transport obligation under the Passenger Transport Act and the passenger transport decision 2000'. What if we included the partial ban on facial clothing in that decision? Could this be the basis for public transport companies to allow their staff to refuse access to, for example, a bus or a train?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u241	First of all, I appreciate Mr Van der Molen's creative thinking. As I said, we keep our finger on the pulse and we remain in consultation with the O.V. domes and the transport companies. If there is a need to adapt, I am very willing to take this suggestion into account. But I also said that it is too early to judge whether that should be the case at all. I say we should rely on the professionalism of the employees on the ground. I believe that we should also be able to rely on them to assess whether they say 'no, I do not want to take responsibility for 200 other travellers arriving at work too late, so I am leaving' or 'I am going to judge this situation in such a way that I am going to focus on bringing the police in so that it can be maintained', which then leads to that situation. Again, that's the judgement call from the professional standing there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u242	I really want to see if there are any questions that have not been answered, otherwise the questions will be asked in different forms and the same answers will be given. Yes, Mr. Van der Molen!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u243	Mr President, you announced that you want to watch. So let me ask you a question, and then you can look.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u244	Well...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u245	I will come back to that point of the Minister. At the beginning of the debate, the Minister was a little confused. She said that the bus driver is in his right, and yet I agree with the transport companies that say that this is not the case. And these transport companies say, "But we can't refuse anyone." The Minister says that you are perfectly capable of rejecting someone, but that must be in the decision on passenger transport. Then I say to the Minister: the law applies everywhere. Then let's put that part in the decision on passenger transport.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u246	That question...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u247	Then they have their base.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u248	That question...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u249	So I repeat that again, because...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u250	No, don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u251	...the Minister wants to take that with him. Am I right, or am I wrong? I'd like to hear that from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u252	That's the same question. I think the Minister answered that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u253	The only thing I would like to add after that short time is this. This was not the case at the time when the law was being dealt with. Again, the thought as such I like to take with me in the evaluation, or otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u254	That's what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u255	But it's not what was decided during the legal process.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u256	Okay. That's what you said. Now Mr. Wiersma. What question do you have?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u257	I regret the latter, because the evaluation is still three years away. In fact, the Minister gave a kind of warning afterwards by saying: we have already heard about possible objections and things that we might encounter; so I had expected a little bit, but at the same time we have to wait and see what it will look like.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u258	Don't sum it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u259	Okay, Mr. Chairman. But I do not think it is a testament to ambition - let me put it this way - to make this law work perfectly and optimally, and not to create any ambiguity about it, if the Minister says: I would like to look at some good suggestions first. I would like to see a little more proactivity in that; I will just give you that. Then we can at least do everything in our power to prevent this polarisation, which you sometimes see here in the debate, and to increase clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u260	Okay, so you're gonna give me something.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u261	I also gave the Chamber some information, namely that I appreciate the input and that I understand that the incidents are of course being lightened to see if we can learn lessons from them. That's right. But what I also say is that the change in behaviour, which has undoubtedly occurred but which is much more difficult to measure and make visible, must be taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u262	Now I wonder what Mr Martin Bosma is giving us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u263	Yes, I'd like to give you something, too, Mr. Chairman. You're so positive today. The Minister's playing a bit of a funny game. She keeps saying, "Yes, that law is only six weeks old." The other time the law is seven weeks old and then two months. But that is not really true, because this was already discussed in 2015. Mr Kuzu said that. We also discussed it here in 2016. So that law didn't arrive with the mail just three weeks ago. Everyone knew. However, the Minister has done nothing to prepare for this law, which is very often done by law. There were campaigns on radio and television about the app ban. We also saw the boss of the traffic police, who said: the line is that we immediately ticket! This minister has also campaigned around fake news. She drew out a million euros to inform the Netherlands about this. Why didn't she just start thinking on a day in her time as a minister, so that there would have been a hell of a campaign this summer? Then everything would have been clear to everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u264	I've also read all the newspapers in the recess, and there's been an incredible amount of writing about this law. I am very happy about that, because I think there is no misunderstanding, not even socially, about the fact that the law has entered into force. However, we have discussed with the sectors how they ensure in their domain that all employees know that the law will apply and how they should act. Very active work has been done on this. That seemed to me to be the most important thing in the implementation of this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u265	I followed all that news at my vacation address about all those people who said they wouldn't implement the law. It was a huge cacophony. I was sitting there on my vacation address, F5 and I thought, "Where's Karin? Where's the minister? Why isn't she stepping out? Why doesn't the minister just say..."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u266	Karin? Who's Karin?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u267	I don't know. Minister Ollongren. Why aren't we hearing from the Minister? There's an incredible cacophony. And those who have to clarify the cacophony, the Minister of the Interior, who is responsible for this law, we do hear about Femke Halsema and Thierry Baudet, for example through Twitter, but not about this law. Why doesn't the Minister say anything?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u268	I expected Mr Bosma to be grateful that I had defended this law in the First Chamber, a law that was a deeply cherished wish of the PVV, but well, I understand that he is not. Of course, that's his right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u269	Finally, Mr Martin Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u270	I'm not talking about defending the law in the First Chamber. I am talking about the past period, the whole summer, in which half of the Netherlands said: we are not implementing it. There were all kinds of misunderstandings and people with opinions. At that time, the Minister should simply go out, via a press release, via Twitter or via Facebook, that doesn't matter what she can do from her holiday address and just say: no whining, the law is being implemented? But she didn't, and because of that, the cacophony and the lack of clarity have only been strengthened.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u271	I take note of that. I have not heard that in that way from Mr Bosma before, nor the other time I was here in the Chamber to talk about this. I'm doing my job. I'll make sure the law is implemented and implemented. I am always prepared to be called to account.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u272	Thank you. I'll see who's next. That's the Minister of Justice and Security, who meanwhile ate a whole bag of licorice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u273	Mr. Chairman. Let me start by explaining to you the fact that I would eat a lot of licorice or have a lot of cough showers here in the policy weighting, I chose the first one. I'd like to use you to ask the Chamber and the viewers for forgiveness if that has given rise to unpleasant camera footage.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u274	No, that's not so bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u275	I would very much like to be able to continue the conversation with your Chamber. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna drop in the house with the enforcement door. The legislator has provided a clear criminal enforcement framework. Let me say very clearly: that is the legislator, including parliamentary history. Responsibility for the effective implementation of that ban lies primarily with carriers and relevant institutions. They are expected to address offenders, to inform the parties concerned of the existence of the prohibition and to ask them to remove the facial cover or otherwise to leave the means of transport or the premises. The starting point is de-escalation. I should also like to point out that in the Upper House, for example, the spokesperson of the VVD, Mr Schouwenaar, has expressed a very specific opinion on this issue. It is only when someone fails to comply with such a request that the police are involved by a carrier or institution. As a general rule, the police will also ask the offender to end the offense. The starting point is always de-escalation. If a person refuses to remove the facial cover, whether it is an integral helmet or a balaclava or something else, or refuses to leave the room, the police can report it. If necessary, the person concerned may be detained and taken to the police station. For those interested in the gallery or at home: the criminal justice framework has been developed and can be found in Staatscourant 2019, number 39009. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to a number of questions that have been asked. I assume that with these few comments on enforcement I have already been able to answer the necessary questions. Mr Paternotte asked...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u276	I suggest the Minister finish his sentence. Then Mr Kuzu will have the opportunity to intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u277	Mr Paternotte asked about the prioritization of the local triangle. A single criminal enforcement framework has been provided by the legislator. That was worked out in the OM policy letter and the police action framework. It follows that the police come after it is called in by the relevant sector et cetera. As access to public transport can be difficult, the local triangle, in addition to and in conjunction with public transport and on the basis of a pattern of registered offences, may decide to adopt a combined enforcement action. Anyway, we've only been six weeks, so that pattern doesn't show up at the moment. Shall I stop now, Mr. Chairman, or do you want me to drop by all the questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u278	First Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u279	When the Minister indicated that he was finished with his introduction, I still missed one element in the construction in degrees given by the Minister. First there is the appeal and then the police are called in. But what was a lot of fuss about during the summer was the so-called citizen's judgment, which the Public Prosecutor has also indicated that it should be allowed. Let me quote, for example, 'that can be done by holding someone to the ground'. My question is this. Today, in addition to the dimensions, we have introduced a desirable/unlegal and legal/non-legal dimension. I ask the Minister whether this is desirable or undesirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u280	I don't know exactly where that quote came from. Let me say in general terms that even under the Law partial ban on facial clothing there is the possibility of arrest in the act. That's in the "How can I say that?" Public jargon the "citizen's detention" and for some others the "citizen's arrest." There must be no reason to take matters into your own hands. The institutions are the first move, as I have already said. Following reports in the media on this subject, the police have therefore advised citizens to be cautious and cautious in maintaining themselves possible offenders of the law face-covering clothing. I think that also fits in with the system of that law. If I do this now, I will also come to Mrs Van Kooten's question about the number. At the moment, I am not aware of any situations in which people were handed over to the police after a civil arrest in the context of facial clothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u281	Oh, thank God. I would say, let's keep it that way. The minister was wondering where the quote came from. I will read it out: "It is also permitted to execute a citizen's arrest, as confirmed by a spokesperson of the Public Prosecutor's Office." Then it is indeed the red-handed thing: if someone tries to take off, then someone can be put to the ground. That's what the state's attorney's office confirms. My question was actually very simple. Article 53 of the Code of Criminal Procedure does indeed give this possibility. I would like to ask the Minister whether it is desirable that in a situation where a woman is concerned, feels unsafe and tries to get away, people attack her and work against the ground. Is that desirable or undesirable?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u282	Mr President, I know that you sometimes look at me very closely when I think that sometimes I have to say something about what comes from the Chamber. If, in general terms, the Public Prosecutor confirms things that are requested by the media, then we should not suggest that the Public Prosecutor is running some kind of active campaign in that regard. The Public Prosecutor's Office in the Netherlands is known worldwide as one of the most reliable, integer and professional. This is also the way we deal with it. Let me also say that this crime is on the same list of priorities as crimes with similar penalties. With regard to civil arrest, I say that we absolutely must not increase it. The police have already given a de-escalating opinion to people precisely as a result of publications in the media, which I am not talking about at all. I repeat: this also fits in with the system of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u283	Finally, really.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u284	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I really do. This minister has learned over the past two years how to avoid answering a simple question from a Member of Parliament. Because my question is very simple: is it desirable or undesirable? Can the Minister go into that sometime? This is the third attempt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u285	I answered the question. I admit that I have done so very carefully. That means, of course, that every word in that answer is well weighted. In the context of this crime, we have just agreed on a three-stage rocket in parliamentary history. Now it appears that the police have clearly indicated that we must be cautious. In the first instance, the people of the institutions or the transporter must appeal to the person with the facial clothing. That is an answer in many words, but it is a clear answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u286	D66's suggestion was actually to lift the citizen's arrest, destroy it. I quote from Article 53 of the Code of Criminal Procedure: in the event of discovery, each person is authorized to apprehend the defendant. D66's suggestion doesn't go into the Minister's mind. So the right we have as citizens remains untouched. I'm happy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u287	This would require an initiative proposal. It's obviously not up to me to continue...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u288	Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u289	Mr. Chairman. Both Mr Paternotte and Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen had a question that...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u290	Before you go any further, I see that Mr Paternotte wishes to respond to Mr Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u291	Yes, because I did not suggest that the Code of Criminal Procedure should be amended at all. I went into the fact that it was suggested in newspapers that it would be a good idea for citizens in the Netherlands themselves to take up the right to ensure that the burqa ban, i.e. the partial ban on facial clothing, is maintained. This is also in line with what we saw at RTL News this morning, namely that the number of situations of discrimination and intimidation of Muslims in the Netherlands has increased. That's why I asked the Minister to stand down. He just did.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u292	Then you have made this point clear. I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u293	I would just like to stress that I am not here as a minister to distance myself from any press release. That would be contrary to the freedom of the press. So let me say very emphatically to everyone here that I am not talking about what is being written in the media on this subject. How do we not maintain it with the obligation to maintain it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u294	I did not ask for a waiver from the publication, but from these practices and to remove the suggestion that a citizen's judgment is appropriate here. I understand the Minister's view that the primary responsibility lies with the public transport workers, hospitals and educational institutions, and not with the citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u295	Then I have misunderstood Mr Paternotte, for which, through you, Mr President, I apologise. Here's what I said. The three-stage rocket simply laid down the States-General in parliamentary history. I therefore believe that we should follow it in a state of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u296	That raises another question for Mr. Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u297	The publication of RTL News that Muslims would be threatened more often is based on the Office of Discrimination cases, the Islamic Party NIDA and the Collective Against Islamophobia and Discrimination. There are no facts at all. There's no evidence at all. So, as we have seen very often in the past, there is a call for all kinds of people to see violence against people with headscarves and so on, but in practice this is very often not true. Does the Minister really have hard information, for example because there has been a report, that "Muslims would be insulted more often," as I quote the publication? I don't believe anything about this publication.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u298	At the risk of Mr Bosma coming back and saying that I did not understand him correctly, I would like to start by saying that I am not in favour of commenting on what is going on in the media on the subject. I would then like to answer his question. We are now six or seven weeks with this law on steam and there is no relevant statistics available to draw a conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u299	Finally, Mr Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u300	Well, I'm happy about that. There is therefore no reason to believe the claims of those Muslim organisations such as NIDA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u301	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u302	I am not referring to the latter, but I would like to emphasise to Mr Bosma that there is at least no relevant statistics at the moment. Mr. Chairman. Let's go back. What I call the Tripartite Group asked Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen and Mr Paternotte. During the treatment in both Chambers, this was very clear: first to the person of the institution, I will say, or the bus driver; then, if that does not work, to the police, so also to the police first; only then decide on possible blurring and other things. This is the starting point of de-escalation, which also occurs in other situations and in other policies. So there is no tension with the principle of enforcement. It's the professional, in this case the cop on the street, who needs to give you the space to make that decision. I think that's quite right. Mr Van der Molen and I also believe that Mrs Özütok both asked about the action of the police and the previous statements. We have laid down very clearly the intended method of enforcement in the OM Directive published in the Official Journal. The police are acting in accordance with that framework. The communication of the police is also fully in line with that. I'll say immediately that once there was a communication that wasn't quite right. That was straightened out right away. I took care of that myself. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the question about the boas.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u303	Brief question, Mrs Van Kooten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u304	It's actually a point of order. I'm just getting the impression that the direction zooms in on people from the audience when there's an interruption by Mr Bosma. I'd like to ask the director not to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u305	That from the direction is zoomed in on...?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u306	To people who are listening to the debate. I'd like to ask if the director doesn't want to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u307	I find that difficult. You made your point, but it's hard for me to order the director to zoom in on anything. Anyway, you made your comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u308	I'm talking about people being taken in the picture who might not want to be taken in the picture when people talk here. That's my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u309	People who sit in the public gallery know that there are cameras everywhere here and that they may be on camera. If people really don't want to get into the picture, I point out that we're being streamed live here. There is also Politics 24. So they can also follow the debate in another way. But where were we anyway?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u310	Mr President, I understand that the camera is not always directed at me. Let me start with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u311	No, I don't see an iPad.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u312	Oh, look, we're about to have another debate on old cows, but all of this aside.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u313	Good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u314	Then there's the extraordinary detectives. The police have a general investigative authority for the locations to which this law on facial clothing applies. For those locations, it is true that boas have limited investigative powers. They only have enforcement powers in public space, domain 1. In domain 4, public transport, that's different. I see no reason to change the policy because so far there has been a handful of incidents in which the police have had to act. We'll keep our finger on the wrist at that point, but we've only been on the road for seven weeks, again. Of course, I'm consulting with the police, which applies not only to this crime but also to other criminal offences, about how things go in enforcement practice and whether you should do things. I've been sitting around the table with the boa unions and police unions this week. The Chamber also knows that two advisory committees are looking at the position and powers of boas and cooperation with the police. So I'll come back to your room anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u315	Where are you on answering the questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u316	I've got one or two more things. Shall I finish it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u317	Then I would suggest that the Minister finishes those questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u318	I actually only have one, and that is the question about the safety of women with facial clothing. In general, in the event of a threat, the police can always be called upon, and so can people with facial clothing, regardless of what that is. For the cabinet, it is the rule that it can recognize and look at each other at locations and in public transport vehicles. This ensures good service, communication and social security. It is now enshrined in criminal law as a new standard. That brings in new situations. We deal with that carefully and respectfully. Of course, we are going to prevent unsafe situations from arising. Then I'm through, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u319	Thank you. Short question, Mr. Wiersma, really short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u320	As if my questions are always long, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u321	Well, we have the director to look back on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u322	I hope I'm on the picture and that it's not too much on the audience... The Minister specifically says about the boas that it may be a little early. I'm just thinking about what the problem is. It's 400 people at most. It's not going to be a day job, but shouldn't they just be able to intervene when it's necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u323	Part of this debate we note that that de-escalation model, that three-stage rocket, is really a new standard and that it is really getting used to in many ways. I think that you should give the professionals the space to implement this in a good, consistent way in the first place. That's what the police are doing now. We should not say too quickly that others could help or something like that. The police in the Netherlands are excellent. I think it is very well equipped to act in the so far few cases at stake. Give the police time and opportunity to develop a certain consistency.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u324	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u325	I find that very nonchalant, if I'm being honest. Many hands make light work. Anything that helps to promote the approach in practice, to give people security and to help the professional to dare to do so, helps. In this debate, I find it difficult for us to say on the one hand that it is just a group of 400 people and that it is symbolic politics, as some parties say, and on the other hand that we sometimes pretend that this is already a huge day job that we ask of people who already have tasks, and as if it would lead to a major approach such as the fight against drug crime. That's not true. In fact, in order to avoid that and to avoid that discussion, I would ask the Minister whether it would not be wise to look precisely if you could use those boas.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u326	I am, of course, sorry that I am raising the impression of nonchalance, where I have been thoroughly dived into the legal history and have seen that majorities in the Second and First Chambers have so wanted to set it up, with that role for the police, including the VVD, which has even underlined it in the First Chamber. That wasn't supposed to be nonchalance. I'm gonna stay, by the way, like the cops, and I'm gonna stick around.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u327	Mr Van der Molen, please be very brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u328	The Minister indicated that he personally ensured that one ruling by the police would have been corrected on the implementation of the law. Is it true that this is the police's statement that they would like to make arrangements in the office so that people with a burqa could, for example, make a declaration?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u329	I personally watched the police for the following thing, which was not, by the way, if only something had gone wrong once in the speech, also because of the new of this standard and of the three-stage rocket, which is also somewhat special in enforcement. When there was a misunderstanding on a number of occasions, I also ensured, at the point mentioned by Mr Van der Molen, that the police were properly put on the right track. I feel the same way about a new law. In fact, we need to start a new law with each other in a good way, and then give that law time to be implemented in society.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u330	I had asked another question in my speech about one of those statements by the police, which had indicated: enforcement is not our priority. That's what the public transport company spokesperson referred to. He said, "That's not gonna work for us," because the ride has to go on. How does the Minister look back on that statement from the police?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u331	I did say something about that. I have said that we must realise that this crime is on a priority list with a number of criminal offences similar in terms of severity. That means that in that context it simply gets the prioritization it deserves. I have to say quite frankly that, in a certain situation, of course, this may mean giving priority to a very serious accident at some point in relation to it. That speaks for itself, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u332	Thank you. Finally, I will give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u333	Mr. Chairman. My colleagues have already discussed in detail the purpose of the law and enforcement. There haven't been a lot of questions asked to me either. By the way, it's nice to be here. I would like to mention two things from my portfolio, namely the importance of society and of integration. You will see, of course, over the last few months, weeks, quite frankly, a solid social debate about these laws and incidents that are also widely measured in the media. A debate is, of course, part of the rule of law. I like the debate, but tough language and conflict-finding are often not really helpful in society. I would like to emphasise that this law regulates nothing more and nothing less than that we should be able to see each other's faces in certain public places and for a certain purpose. There is room for differences in the Netherlands and let us also give each other that space. So this law is not about integration, nor is it an instrument in integration policy. That is also the answer to Mr Wiersma's question: where were you? Apart from the fact that my agenda is public, it is not an instrument in integration policy. It's about social security. Mrs Ollongren has just explained this and Mr Grapperhaus has just explained this. It's not about integration. What is it about? What's it touch? It's getting involved. It gets to live together. And I'm responsible for that again. However, I would also like to stress that we must be clear about self-determination, about which some of you have asked questions. I think that is a right point of attention. The wearing or not wearing face-covering clothing does not say anything in advance about self-determination, because as far as it is a free choice, even in public space, beyond the scope of the law we are talking about here, it also has a place in our open, free society. It is also about our freedoms that we cherish with each other. If there is coercion there it often affects each other then of course there is a task for the government. We have to keep this apart and reason very pure in it. What can the government be called upon to do? These are really two other things. When it comes to coercion, it's a different story. I very much agree with a number of speakers on this point. Mrs Van Kooten asked a question about it, as did Mrs Özütok. This concerns, in particular, the right of self-determination, especially of women. On 19 July, just before the summer recess, my colleague Hugo de Jonge sent the second progress report "Violence belongs nowhere" to the Chamber, which also focused on what is then called "harmful traditional practices." It tackles issues such as marriage coercion, honor-related violence, marital imprisonment, abandonment and real self-determination. It also shows that a combination of preventive policies and repression in this type of approach is always necessary. Preventive policy often works better, because it puts the professional in a position to really help people escape from it. The problem is often complex, invisible and very difficult to really get over the table. This as an introduction. Mr Wiersma asked: where were you? We are, of course, very busy with society and combating polarisation, but once again, this law does not aim to promote integration. That's never been the goal either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u334	I suggest you answer all the questions at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u335	There's been one more theme left. Jasper van Dijk, Mr Kuzu, Mrs Özütok and Mr Paternotte asked about RTL News this morning. The key question was: what are you going to do about the grim climate against Muslims that may have arisen as a result of legislation? In general: The Netherlands is a diverse country. Our society consists of 17 million people with a wide variety of origins. These Dutch are together the society. It usually goes well, but unfortunately there is too much discrimination in the RTL News this morning. It can be about labour market discrimination, it can be about a feeling of not being accepted, it can be about hate sowing, it can be about violence, but, of course, in our society there is no place for that. I have a number of pathways to improve understanding of (Muslim) discrimination and its knowledge. Since 2016, this has been better tracked in police registration systems, allowing us to gain more control over it. Mr Bosma asked if there were any concrete examples, but we do not know yet. It's only been six, seven weeks. It's important to monitor this and keep a finger on the wrist. I very much agree with Mr Kuzu on this. Together with representatives of the municipality, the police, anti-discrimination facilities and Muslim communities, we are working together to better identify these forms of discrimination and to explore ways of combating it. That is also very important to me in this open, free society. Finally, Mr Kuzu's specific question. As you know, we have the Social Stability Expertise Unit, in which we also have a lot of conversations with municipalities, stakeholders and groups. In addition to the ongoing monitoring of the effects of the law, the ESS will also discuss with some specific women the experienced consequences of the introduction of this legislation in order to keep an eye on the pulse. With this we also want to ensure that we can detect signals in time and prevent possible escalation. This planned conversation with women is part of our intention to strengthen and expand our network within Muslim women's circles in the coming period. Those were the questions I was asked, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u336	A brief question from Mr Wiersma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u337	I asked the minister where he was in the social discussion. He replied that he saw no task for himself. I think that is serious, because I think this is about integration. You can discuss with each other whether the law is about integration or about it. It doesn't matter. There was an image in which on one hand the burqa was elevated to an ultimate symbol of women's freedom, while on the other hand you were almost regarded as a racist in the cap if you think you should be able to address each other and recognize each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u338	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u339	I think that the Minister should agree with this and that he should speak out. He's got to learn lessons from it, too. So I ask: what do you think of that? What lessons do you draw? What does this mean for integration, which we often discuss with each other and what this law is really about?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u340	I do not agree with Mr Wiersma on that last point. This has been explicitly changed in the drafting of this law. It's about social security. I noticed this in Mr Wiersma's first term. He mentioned the example of a gas station, but that's not what this law is about. Mr Wiersma is taking it up a bit in this debate. I'm attached to pulling it apart. The purpose of this law is social security and not integration. This has been discussed in detail in the legal history and in the debate. That's why I didn't get mixed up in this as a portfolio holder. What I agree with Mr Wiersma is the question of how to ensure that people can participate in the Netherlands and that we do not get a polarized society. But in the context of this debate and this law, it doesn't fit me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u341	Clear. Finally, Mr Wiersma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u342	I asked the Minister what lessons he's taking from this. We have seen a message from a conductor who is nailed to the bar and then ends up with videos on Facebook groups of Nikabfans. What kind of task does the Minister see for himself to prevent this? How's he gonna do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u343	I have already distanced myself from that in my introduction. I believe that there is no room for polarisation, hatred and violence in a peaceful society. My colleagues have already indicated this in the first place. You can make anything a question of integration, but it is not. This is just a matter of civilized dealing with each other and respecting each other in society. That goes both ways.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u344	I'm going to see Mr. Bosma. You also have a second time limit, at least 1 minute and 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u345	The Minister has been waiting here for three and a half hours. Then you think he's prepared himself well and that he read the RTL message correctly. He's a critical mind. He should've seen where that crazy claim came from, that there was all Muslim violence and that there were Muslim ceremonies. The source is NIDA, an extremist Muslim party: the collective against Islamophobia.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u346	You just asked the Minister of Justice this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u347	Why does the Minister, who has been able to think for so long, maintain that strange picture that suddenly there would be an increase in insulting Muslims? What does that tell you? There's no data.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u348	I read the message this morning. Indeed, it was about casuism. It was about signals coming up in society. Moreover, on the other hand, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen have emphasized the case of the first six or seven weeks. We do not know what else is going on in practice. We need to monitor that and map it. It is therefore at least selective indignation on the part of Mr Bosma, but that aside. That's an exciting idea, so we can have a nice debate. The other point is that in recent years we have seen an increase in Muslim discrimination in official statistics. Mr Kuzu has also mentioned this in debates. That's what I'm worried about. We have a responsibility together to counter that. I have already said this in response to the questions put by Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u349	When there is another claim of someone with a head cloth being harassed, in practice very often none of it turns out to be true. Now the Minister joins in this story, from Islamic organisations that have an interest in it, a financial or electoral earning model, to put Muslims as victims. The Minister of Justice and Security also said that there is no basis for it. There's no evidence whatsoever, no hard fact to follow this story. Then why does the Minister do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u350	I'm not doing that at all. For all due care, Mr Bosma is putting something in my mouth. I was asked by your Chamber to respond to the coverage of RTL News. The message from RTL News shows a speaker who says: I've been through this. That's casuistic. The same thing is happening on the other hand, that is also casuistic. At the same time, in recent years, I have noted that there has been an increase in Muslim discrimination. We have had many debates on this in the Chamber. Mr Kuzu has rightly drawn attention to this on a number of occasions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u351	You already said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u352	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u353	We are representatives of the people. As a representative of the people, you pick up signals from society and bring them up here. Now I understand that a party that wants to take the civil rights of a certain group of people comes up with this kind of madness, but of course my question is not about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u354	What is your question about?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u355	My question to the Minister is actually a very specific question, namely about the point he has just made about the Social Stability Expertise Unit and the case law. Is he willing to take that with him in the letter on the interim information from the Home Secretary? I see nodding, so we can write that down as a commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u356	Yes, we will.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u357	Then that's clear, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u358	The second is...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u359	Oh?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u360	...and then I'm gonna stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u361	Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u362	We talked about coercion. When there is coercion and women have to wear their father or husband's husband's burqa, the minister has DENK on his side to fight it. Force is unacceptable. I would like to make that very clear. But is it not at the same time that we are actually doing the same to women who consciously and out of freedom choose to dress in this way through the introduction and brutal enforcement of this law? Doesn't that compulsion, which I hear a lot of the Minister talking about, work in two directions?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u363	I understand Mr Kuzu's question very well. In my opinion, that is exactly the distinction I have just made in my own introduction between self-determination, the freedom of people to dress and behave in open society, the free society as they wish, and the purpose of the law, namely that you should show your face in certain public spaces such as public transport and UWV. Your Chamber and also the First Chamber have made a weighting of freedoms and civil rights. This law is not for nothing limited to those public spaces.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u364	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u365	Please.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u366	Then you didn't come here for nothing. We are now going to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK. Everyone has to keep to the speaking time, Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u367	Mr. Chairman. I quote: "I notice that people do uglier than they did before. They seem to have dared to say something more quickly since the new law entered into force." You can laugh at this just like the PVV colleague just did, but these are such signals. The moment we set a standard here, you see that people who have a different agenda tending towards the Islamophobic side, the Muslim hating side, take the law into their own hands and feel compelled to make such statements and intimidate and aggressively harass women. That is why I can come to the conclusion that there can only be one direction when we talk about this law. I have the next motion on that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Law partially bans facial covering clothing entered into force on 1 August 2019;]] [[noting that the possibility of carrying out a citizen's judgment has led to experienced insecurity among women and to organised pseudo-knocking teams wishing to play in their own courts;]] [[noting that aggression and intimidation towards Muslim women has increased with or without a nicab;]] [[noting that the Council of State has been highly critical of the need for the law and its compatibility with the freedom of religion;]] [[noting that human rights organisations, including Amnesty International, object to this law because it is contrary to basic human rights;]] [[considers that the Law partially bans facial covering clothing is a symbolic and Islamophobic pestilence measure;]] [[calls on the Government to send a proposal to the Chamber as soon as possible to withdraw the partial ban on facial covering clothing,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34349-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u368	Mr President, thank you. I'll start with my motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the introduction of the partial ban on facial covering clothing has been associated with a great deal of uncertainty while the law is crystal clear;]] [[Whereas staff in particular in public transport do not feel supported in the enforcement of the law, due to the lack of clear agreements regarding the appeal of people to the violation of the ban;]] [[Calls on the Government to work with the implementing sectors on how, within the existing tasks and powers, as laid down by implementing sectors themselves in user agreements and house rules, the appeal to and enforcement of the ban on facial clothing can be ensured by all institutions to which the ban applies;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Court of Justice of this strengthened approach and arrangements this calendar year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Wiersma, Mr Van der Molen, Mr Stoffer and Mr Van der Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34349-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u369	Mr. Chairman. Another helping hand to the cabinet. That's what I do with love. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that special investigators in areas such as public transport, employment, income & care and education do not now have the possibility to fine offenders of the partial ban on facial clothing;]] [[calls on the Government to add the partial prohibition of facial covering clothing to the list of legal requirements in which special investigators in the fields covered by the law are responsible for the detection of criminal offences,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wiersma and Mr Stoffer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34349-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u370	Mr. Chairman. Seven seconds before I finish. It's too early, I hear the cabinet say, and at the same time it's exciting somewhere. It is between hope and fear: hope that the law will work properly, fear that the incidents will be followed up. Such a clear law deserves better. I encourage the cabinet to show this very quickly, because there will be no more compassion if incidents continue to occur.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u371	Don't move, Mr. Wiersma, because Mr. Paternotte wants to ask you something. Mr. Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u372	The motion was read out extremely quickly, but I understand that Mr Wiersma wants the boas to be involved in enforcing this law, i.e. that boas are going to deal with the burka ban. Boas have specific investigative powers, the Minister of Justice and Security has just explained clearly, for which they have also been specifically trained. Boas in public transport or municipal maintainers...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u373	Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u374	...have a specific responsibility for the APV, or security measures taken there. What exactly do you want which boas to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u375	I mentioned a number of areas where the ban applies. I have asked for the powers of the boas in these areas to be extended with this ban and to be able to appeal to people. I didn't hear the Minister say you can't. He just said that there is no reason for that now. I think it's possible. I have reason to do so, and that's why I'm filing the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u376	Finally, Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u377	You do acknowledge that the Minister has indicated that this only applies in public areas, so that only public transport in this case would be part of the areas where the law applies?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u378	Sure. The motion states: for example, in the domain of public transport. I'll leave the cabinet room to see what's a good way to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u379	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u380	But the task I would like to give to the Chamber is still to see whether the motion is successful in making it quite clear, contrary to what the Minister said about the treatment in the First Chamber, that many hands are making light work. If people can help make this a success, we must not let that happen. It would be nice for the Chamber to support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u381	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Molen, on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u382	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Ministers for answering the questions that have been asked. At the end of this debate, however, I will continue to look for ways to clarify with each other, particularly when it comes to the position in public transport, what we do with people who try to enforce the law and do not get support from their employer, which creates endless uncertainties. I indicated in an interruption that I think it would be a good idea to look at the passenger transport decision, because that could be a basis on which carriers/transport companies could give their employees more space to act. For that reason, the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is uncertainty as to the enforcement of the partial ban on facial clothing in public transport;]] [[Whereas the legal obligation to transport must not impede the enforcement of the ban on facial clothing;]] [[calls on the Government to examine, in consultation with transport companies, whether access to public transport can be refused in the event of a violation of the ban on facial clothing;]] [[invites the Government to submit proposals to the Chamber for the adaptation of the passenger transport decision 2000 if necessary and to inform the Chamber before 1 December 2019,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Molen and Mr Wiersma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34349-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u383	I would just like to point out that I do not expect the Minister to have the decision amended before 1 December, but that she can give us some clarity as to whether she is going to take that step. I hope she does. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u384	Thank you, Mr. Van der Molen. I now give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u385	Mr. Chairman. We agree with the intention of this law. The discussion is in the implementation of the law. The problem is that the law is only evaluated after three years and that you could only then possibly amend something. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the way in which the Law is implemented is partially prohibited by the law on masking clothing (boerkawet) is unclear and gives rise to a lot of discussion;]] [[considers that, for this reason, the law should be able to be amended in good time but that the evaluation is only planned after three years;]] [[calls on the Government to review the law after one year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34349-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u386	Thank you, Madam President. I thank the rulers for the first-term response. From this, I conclude that the standard stands, that the law is clear, and that the cabinet is firmly behind the professionals who in practice have to deal with the implementation of this law. At the same time, I am concerned about whether what we have discussed here will come out okay. I am thinking of the people who are working in public transport, but also of the people who travel along. If people are still in their minds that they are being called upon to take action themselves, then this debate offers some clarity, but I would like that clarity to exist outwardly. That's why I'm filing a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, since the entry into force of the Law, there has been a lack of clarity among citizens as to the scope and application of the law;]] [[Whereas it has also been found that there is uncertainty as to the competences of professionals in health care, education, government and health care;]] [[calls on the Government to make an additional communication effort towards citizens and professionals on the scope and application of the law,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van der Graaf and Mr Stoffer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34349-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u387	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's a little embarrassing that we have to sit here for almost half a day with three rulers. There is a lot going on in the Netherlands: the mocromafia, climate crazies that are destroying the economy and even our sexist children's toys are no longer safe. And then we have to have three ministers in the Chamber all day long. While it's very simple: Minister Ollongren should have just done her job this summer. There was a huge social debate going on. Everyone thought they could afford all kinds of freedoms, in the sense of: I do not implement the law. Everyone thought he was above the law, but Minister Ollongren hasn't heard from him at all. She should have just done that. She should have made it clear in every possible way that the law must be implemented. So sorry, Mr Koolhaas...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u388	I was just thinking about Remco. Excuse me! Mr. Koolmees, I'm sorry you're here all day.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u389	Mr Bosma is involved in the renovation of the Binnenhof.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u390	Yeah, that too. It's about face-covering cases today. Mr. Koolmees, I can't help but notice that you're covering your face more and more. But this aside. Mr. Chairman. I'm glad to see that Article 53 of the Code of Criminal Procedure is still standing. The Minister of Justice and Security has confirmed that once again. He therefore did not comment on the suggestion of the gender-neutral D66 to interfere with that. So that stays on. Mr. Chairman. I am also very pleased that there is no basis for all kinds of stories that are being brought into the world about Muslim discrimination and about Muslims who would be attacked as a result of this law. They are based on all sorts of vague cries of Islamic organizations. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u391	Thank you, Mr. Martin Bosma. Mr Jasper van Dijk has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u392	Apart from the plea for sexist toys by the PVV, which I did not know yet, I wondered what Mr Bosma meant by his statement: why are we standing here for hours with three ministers all afternoon while there are more important things in the Netherlands? The PVV is the creator, the initiator of this law! Because of the PVV we have this debate, you could say. So you're mad at yourself, Mr. Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u393	No, you couldn't say that. We are not the initiator of the law. However, in 2005 we tabled a motion for a total ban on burqa. That law is clear. We're not standing here because there's a law. We are here today, at Mr Kuzu's request, and he is absolutely right about this because there are all kinds of uncertainties about the enforcement of the law. That's the whole problem. The problem is not that the law is there, but that there is uncertainty about enforcement. The SP rules in Amsterdam, sits in the college of mayor and aldermen, and the SP supports the policy of Femke Halsema, the mayor, to create it unclearly. The SP is not... has no problems with Islam at all. The SP is a fan of Islam and has always been. That is why the SP minister... supports recovery, Mayor Halsema of Amsterdam if she tries to keep Islam out of the wind and try to sabotage the burka ban. That's the SP. We're not here because of the PVV. We're here today because of the SP!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u394	The answer gets a bit stuttering and prickly. I understand, because you cannot ignore it: you cannot make it a problem that we are here half a day if we know at the same time that it was the PVV that called the most for a burk law. That law was made, and the Minister of the Interior was right to say, "Hey, I thought I'd get some support from the PVV here." But no, it's either not right or it's wrong. That's how we know the PVV again, too bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u395	Ho, ho, ho, are we gonna get a little personal at the end?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u396	Yeah, that's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u397	The atmosphere was so good today. Then again, it's the SP that makes it personal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u398	And I think Mr Kuzu is going to improve the atmosphere a little bit now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u399	I'm gonna relax, because I'm gonna compliment Mr. Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u400	If I may reply, Mr President, yes, indeed, the PVV was an enthusiastic supporter of this law. It is a good step in the right direction, but only a first step. But the law is not being implemented. In fact, the law is sabotaged by Jan and alleman including the municipality of Amsterdam, where the SP rules and sabotages this law! The SP sabotages this law. Shame on you, Mr. Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u401	To make it more relaxed, a compliment to Mr Bosma. Happy birthday!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u402	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u403	Congratulations, because you, in particular, got the VVD, the CDA and other political parties to go along with what you did in 2005 when the PVV didn't exist; it was the Wilders Group that invented it. I was wondering what your next move would be. Are you closing mosques now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u404	No, we're not gonna talk about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u405	Now you're gonna order a headscarf ban?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u406	No, let's just stick to the subject and that's either the burqa ban or the ban on facial clothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u407	I take the compliment with pleasure. I am glad that we can end with a positive note, as opposed to the contribution of the SP. Hold it, Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u408	Okay, thank you. We have been working on this for half a day, but that is at the request of the Chamber. The rulers are our guests. We have asked them and invited them to come to the Chamber. Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u409	Thank you, Mr President. I have a motion that reads as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that people from Orthodox faith communities may experience a great deal of resistance from their surroundings if they choose to say goodbye to certain rules of life or their faith;]] [[Whereas feelings of loneliness, exclusion and sadness for what is lost can cause a grieving process in which people need help;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure proper reception and guidance of beneficents,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34349-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u410	I have one more motion, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that increasing pressure on police capacity may unduly require citizens to execute a citizen's arrest;]] [[Whereas Article 53 of the Code of Criminal Procedure enables citizens to proceed to a civil arrest in the event of a crime or offence being caught in the act;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with a legislative proposal to ensure that a citizen's arrest can only be carried out when a crime is caught in the act,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34349-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u411	Mr President, thank you. I do think I can do enough to respond to the motions. By the way, Mr Grapperhaus will be responsible for three motions, namely the motions...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u412	Maybe you could mention the numbers right away?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u413	Exactly. You beat me to it. That's what I was gonna do. It is a matter of motions on items Nos. 20, 24 and 25. The motion by Mr Kuzu in part No. 18 asks for the bill to be withdrawn. I think that today's discussion has made it clear that this is not the intention of the cabinet. Therefore, we advise against this motion. On the motion in part No. 19 I wanted to say something more. That is Mr Wiersma's motion cum suis. There are a number of things in this motion which I understand very well from the debate that I have just had, but which, in a sense, also anticipate some of the conclusions that I was not prepared to draw, namely that the sectors still have a lot of questions and that there would be a lot of criticism from the staff about how this was agreed. At the moment, with the sectors, we think it is workable as we have foreseen. I did say I'm gonna keep my finger on the wrist. I also said that workers in these sectors deserve our full support, including from their employers. We have made this very clear here. Insofar as this has not happened, employers have also come back to this. In other words, if the motion asks to say that the agreements should be tightened, I think that is very quickly. In fact, I intended to offer the Chamber that next year, before the summer, we would be sitting about a year after it was introduced to inform the Chamber of the state of play, following the ongoing consultations with sectors, which might also lead to adjustments to the application. It may be that, with this commitment on the part of the cabinet in mind, the proposers say: in that case, we are prepared to hold our motion or to table the same motion with another planning, another time frame. So again, my commitment is that we will not wait until three years for the evaluation, but will inform the Chamber before the summer recess next year about the state of play. In doing so, the Court can be constantly supported by the idea that consultation with these sectors will continue and that agreements within the sectors can of course be adapted to the actual situation if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u414	A brief question, Mr. Wiersma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u415	Does the Minister consider it possible that what is in the motion is conditional on a successful evaluation next year? I think that is quite real, because we have seen some concerns which I can imagine you say'maybe they are too early', but which I already find alarming. If we just carry out that evaluation and not do what it says, I think that evaluation might be less positive. I'd be sorry to hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u416	But are you holding the motion or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u417	Well, I'm curious to hear the answer. Let me wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u418	I am prepared to take the concerns raised by Mr Wiersma and others seriously. Besides, I am not prepared to do that; I take that for granted. At the same time, I have also stressed that it is really too short a day to judge it now. The motion actually assumes that house rules, usage agreements and the like should be adapted and strengthened. I do not rule it out, but I think that the motion is a little too early for that at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u419	Okay. Thank you for that commitment, but I'll just keep the motion as it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u420	Okay. Then the Wiersma c.s. motion is. in piece No. 19 apprehended. Isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u421	No, I'm just filing the motion. It is good that the commitment is there, but I think this is conditional to also...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u422	No, no, no. You're going to put the motion to the vote?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u423	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u424	Then I would like to know the Minister's opinion if the motion is not held but put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u425	Then I'd have to discourage the motion. I am sorry, because I think that working arrangements could really end up with each other, but given the strict timing in the motion, I have to advise her not to. The motion in part No. 20 is discussed by Mr Grapperhaus. The motion in part No. 21 belongs to Mr Van der Molen. I note that public transport is saying that it is capable of dealing with the course of action that we have agreed on, and that it does not need the proposal that is being made here at the moment. I have already promised to bear in mind that such changes may be possible in the future, but this motion is also going very fast. The motion will speak on 1 December. Then the law is only in force for a few months. I'd like to take this with me at the wrist and also at the evaluation, but this is really too fast. Here again, therefore, I would like to ask whether Mr Van der Molen would like to continue the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u426	Or what?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u427	And otherwise...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u428	Otherwise, we must have an appreciation from the Minister. I didn't intend to hold the motion...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u429	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u430	... because I just don't want us to wait for more incidents.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u431	What is the Minister's opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u432	Then the same applies as at the motion in part No. 19, and I'm gonna have to dissuade her. The motion in part No. 22 member Van Dijk asks for an evaluation after one year instead of after three years. I said that those three years, I think, is a good time. I have promised to inform the Chamber periodically, but that is something other than a full evaluation. Therefore, I advise against the motion. Finally, I come to the motion for a resolution on part No. 23 by Mrs Van der Graaf. The motion calls for something that we are already doing, namely to be in constant consultation with the sectors about how things are going. That is, of course, different from a whole generic communication strategy. It is also something different than every citizen in the Netherlands trying to reach through that consultation. But if I may take the motion in such a way that we continue to communicate with the sectors in a way that is best suited to each sector, then I would be able to give this motion judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u433	Mrs Van der Graaf, do you agree, at least with the explanation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u434	Yeah, that's part of the motion. But I also want to address the concern of the full coupe in which the conductor has to act while there are also people in that coupe who, with the AD article in mind, think: hey, maybe I'm being asked something of me now. Here in the debate it has been made clear that enforcement is, in the first instance, a real responsibility of the performers. I don't care what form the Minister chooses. Pick an interview in the newspaper or a radio interview, but please make it public.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u435	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u436	I will leave the second part, on police enforcement, to Mr Grapperhaus. With regard to communicating about the law, Mrs Van der Graaf is likely to be served at her beck and call when some people are still standing in the hallway. But again, I am sympathetic to her intention. That's why I'm sticking to judgment, Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u437	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u438	Mr. Chairman. I'm responding to three motions. First of all, I would like to comment on the Wiersma/Stoffer motion on part No. 20. I'm gonna have to dissuade him. I have to stress that boas work in public space. I didn't say that very well in the first term. They have no enforcement role in institutions. Only in the D.A. do special boas have a enforcing role on some facts. That would mean that we are now only going to make some kind of violation of that system for this crime. We shouldn't do that. I also pointed out to you that we are talking to the unions and the boas to see how best to organise the boa system. A second reason to discourage the motion is that there is no reason for it, because of the very limited number of incidents and the limited time that the law is now in force. I have already said that, of course, we should keep our finger on the pulse, but we should not bend that wrist after seven weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u439	Mr Wiersma, I will give you the floor for a brief question or a brief response, because there has been enough discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u440	Thanks for the answer. I get the second one. That's a political consideration here. As for the first, it says "for example" in the motion. An interpretation could therefore be 'that is not so; I realize that the Minister is going to look into how that could be done. The Minister doesn't do that. I would just like to point out that we do not want to impose it everywhere. It is an encouragement to do it, for example, in the public transport sector. The minister is here in the wind. I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u441	I see that 'for example' in the preamble, but not in the motion itself. I understand Mr Wiersma's point, but it is not only too early to do so under the law. We are now also the boa-systematic with each other...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u442	That is also what you said, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u443	...redesigning in a good way. Then we shouldn't make some kind of sidetwig. Then I come to the motion on part No. 24 by Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. If I am allowed to take "the care and guidance of those who leave faith" within the limits that the government naturally has in the context of freedom of religion, then that is definitely cabinet policy. I have learned from you strictly that I must then discourage the motion, Mr President. But that's what I'm doing because it's already cabinet policy. Then I come to the motion on part No. 25 by Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. I must discourage them on substantive grounds. There is no need to amend Article 53 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. When I look at this crime, there are, as has been said, precisely no abuses in relation to civil arrest. In addition, this motion calls for the abolition of the arrest of citizens in respect of all offences. That is much broader and, as far as I am concerned, undesirable. I would certainly like to have a good debate on this with the Chamber first. So it's not advisable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u444	Thank you. Then we have come to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u445	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I would like to thank the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, the Minister for Justice and Security and the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. I shall suspend the sitting until 2:40 p.m. and then we shall begin the work on the order of business.
