ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-9.u1	The next item is the farewell of two colleagues: Mr Azmani of the VVD and Mr Van Rooijen of 50PLUS. I shall begin with Mr Azmani's suicide note. "President. There's a privileged person in front of you. Privileged for having been a member of your Chamber since 2010. Privileged because that was not immediately obvious, as a boy from a Moroccan-Fries family in which studying was already quite progressive. Privileged because over the last few years I have been able to make a contribution to making our beautiful country a little better. Mr. Chairman. That little boy, little Malik, was already fascinated by politics. I admit it's not normal, but I'd rather follow election results and political debates than read the Donald Duck. I noticed early on that place, your room, is the place where you can influence how we live together in this country, where you can actually change things. So that's where I was supposed to be. As I said, it wasn't self-evident. But I don't think I have to explain to you that, when you're willing to fight and if you're right or wrong to walk a step faster sometimes, you can eventually achieve what you want. I didn't expect it to happen so fast. Even before I could sit on my chair in the city council of Ommen, 'The Hague' knocked on the door. A challenge I couldn't let go of. The portfolios I have had over the past few years were all close to my heart, portfolios in which to fight. And although other parties did not always agree with my views immediately, I always felt the cooperation with other MPs, from PVV to SP and everyone in the middle of the Chamber, was pleasant, even if I felt it was necessary to focus matters before or behind the scenes, because I was convinced that my solution was best for this country. I am also delighted to look back on the fine role of chairman of the European Affairs Committee. I will not forget the Dutch Presidency of the EU in 2016, which I was involved in together with you! It is with a bit of melancholy that I announce my departure today. Although... actually, I'm not leaving. I'm moving to the branch in Brussels. That's how I really see it. After all, I continue to do the best things for my club, the VVD. I have only decided to do that where the problems our country faces can best be solved. You know, I'm not a europhile. On the contrary. But some problems we simply cannot solve here in the Netherlands, in this Parliament. Our country is simply too small to fight against China, Russia or the US alone. And some problems do not concern themselves with a border. The emissions from a factory. The migrant, looking for a place in Europe. Or even the terrorist, who simply crosses the border between us and our neighbours. If I want to contribute to the major problems that politics will have to solve for the people of our country over the next few years, migration, security and climate, I will have to do so in Europe. And, if I am there, I will at the same time ensure that Europe does not interfere with matters that the VVD should not deal with. I hope that the colleagues I leave here will be as keen on 'Brussels' as I will be in the coming years. That they're doing the right thing. That they don't do the right thing. And that you, colleagues, are involved in decision-making at the right moments. And that decision-making is transparent. I'll do my best for that, too. For it is not for nothing that I see it as my task to tighten up the ties between Brussels and The Hague. To make 'Brussels' actually work for the Netherlands. And to show the voter that 'Brussels' is more than a money-consuming institution that wants to interfere with our lives in the Netherlands unsolicited. With this focus, I am moving towards the European Parliament. I'm not gone, at most a little further away. What I will remember with melancholy is the fantastic organization I'm leaving here. From messenger to waiter, from clerk to stenographer, from personal collaborator to secretariat and anyone who contributes to ensuring that we, the MPs, can do our job well. I'm gonna miss your good care. Thanks for everything. Goodbye and see you soon! Greetings, Malik Azmani'
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-9.u2	Dear Lord Azmani, dear Malik, You were young when you came into the room. And vice versa, politics was still young for you, because although you were already on the tube at 11 to follow the election results and you spoke in your maiden speech about "a boy's dream that came true," you didn't become a member of the VVD until 2008. That was when the party was in heavy weather. Also the fact that the Netherlands was suffering from a severe economic crisis did not stop you from becoming active. When you switched from the municipality of Ommen to the Lower House, you said in an interview: "It's fantastic to enter politics at a time when the Netherlands is not doing so well." I think that's a telling quote. It shows you're used to walking a step faster. With a linguistic retardation and a different cultural background, it didn't come to your senses. You got a lts-school advice, but you did gymnasium and you studied law. And you talk like you're from the Throw. Yes, that's a compliment to the VVD!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-9.u3	In the Chamber you spoke about asylum, migration and integration. They weren't easy subjects, but they were close to your heart. In October 2018, you led the work visit of the Justice and Security Commission to Tunisia and Libya. It was a moving work visit, partly due to the visit to the detention center in Tripoli and the nightly shelling between rival groups. The working visit of the Commission for European Affairs to refugee camps in Greece and Northern Macedonia also unleashed emotions. In 2015, you submitted an initiative paper to accommodate asylum seekers only outside the European Union, in their own region. The proposal was initially not well received, but was later renamed cabinet policy. In doing so, you were at the root of the debate on European refugee policy, including in the international context. Your heart has always beaten faster for Europe. This was evident during your presidency of the European Affairs Commission, of course, but also during the EU Presidency in 2016. You were closely involved in the organisation of the COSAC meetings. You wanted to shape them in a more Dutch way: discuss them in a smaller circle and then finish the subjects in a plenary session. You were also not afraid to speak to colleagues if they failed to attend conferences or incoming visits. You valued protocol very much. You always said, "If we want to be properly received abroad, we must also be there when we receive guests here." That's where you and Angelien Eijsink found each other. At the farewell of the previous Chamber you danced with her through the walkways. A beautiful picture was taken of that. In that picture you are no longer that young boy who came into the Chamber in 2010, but that charming, experienced MP from whom we say goodbye today. A routinier, a pragmatic and collegial MP with good file knowledge and an eye for the human side of the Chamberwork. You were always concerned with the members and staff of your committee and you were easily approachable. In fact, these are characteristics that will come in handy in Brussels. There you will defend not only the interests of the Netherlands, but also those of the Vechtdal, because the now traditional speaking hours of you and Maurits von Martels simply go through Brussels or no Brussels. On behalf of the Chamber, I wish you every success and good luck in the European Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-9.u4	And now for Mr Van Rooijen's farewell letter. 'Mrs. President. 'In the past lies the present, in the now what will become.' When Willem Bilderdijk wrote this in 1811 he would not have thought of me. Today, June 6, 2019, we commemorate D-day of June 6, 1944 and the beginning of 75 years of liberation. As a 31-year-old, I made my debut in politics in 1973, as Secretary of State for Finance for Taxation in the Den Uyl cabinet. In 1977 my first membership of the House of Representatives followed. In 1980, 39 years ago, I said goodbye. There's a lot of them here that had to be born back then. Today they are esteemed colleagues. Together we represent the continuity of democracy in the Netherlands. Soon I will be re-member of the First Chamber and I already have the necessary footsteps there. The past and the present remain in me. What is different from the past is that more and more members join relatively young, but also leave relatively quickly. In this way, our people's representatives run the risk of gradually reducing their expertise and experience. Given the two main tasks of the House of Representatives, legislation and control of the government, this could become a problem. Arguments find their strength more and more in emotions than in careful support. Much legislation has to last longer than the emotion of the moment dictates. The entry I was allowed to do in this Chamber on behalf of my group has been reflected in the Acts. It may have been an uphill battle all the time, but still I look back mostly with satisfaction. In the case of defeats, you must always consult yourself first, but I also sincerely wonder whether this outcome also reflects that much is said in this Chamber, but perhaps little is listened to. It was worth the political battle here. With heart and soul. Allow me to conclude with a single reflection on the political handiwork. Legislation must also be able to bring peace. Much too much and too quickly is being changed, as for example with the mortgage interest rate deduction. It was a special moment for me to have a filibuster from 270 minutes to night about a cabinet proposal, under your caring leadership: we lasted together. Too much tax legislation is under political pressure and has major gaps. There is insufficient consideration of the need for proper implementation. There are also victims in the government. I mention mainly the Tax Administration, not so long ago the best public service and famed abroad." I have a very long text here, but Mr Van Rooijen is going to read it himself in the debate on responsibility. "Then another sigh of a financial spokesman. Is it not possible to consider disconnecting the General Reviews and the Financial Reviews from Prince's Day again? To spend a lot of time after Princess' Day, say a week or two or three to hear, as a Chamber, society about all those plans in the state budget? To first hold the General Reviews, purely about policy, and then to draw up the account in the Financial Reviews? This brings an overview and citizens, civil society organisations and businesses can make their contribution. Democracy is sometimes simpler than people think. Although I will miss the hectic of the House of Representatives, that will certainly not apply to my wife, children and grandchildren, who have often been disappointed that I have missed many of their activities in the past two years. They look forward very much to the relative calm of the First Chamber, which they remember well from my previous Senate period. What I will not miss are the endless series of emails, apps and such digital means of communication. Thank you to all colleagues. Thanks to all the great employees of this house. You're huge. Thank you to the group of 50PLUS and its staff, and my staff in particular. Thanks to the reporters. Finally, thank you, Madam President, for your guidance, always in wisdom and with authority. The accountant, Martin van Rooijen."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-9.u5	Dear Mr Van Rooijen, dear Martin, Since you entered the Lower House on 23 March 2017, I have had my hands full with you. Up to and including just; this to adjust the letter a little bit and shorten it a bit. You do not care much about speaking time, and you know how to deal with an issue that is not on the agenda in every debate. Journalist Avinash Bhikhie van NU.nl tweeted during the debate on the climate agreement: "Maybe Mr Van Rooijen thinks that the plenary room is a kind of Stand.nl, where you can dial in and complain about what's bothering you. (...) Can anyone whisper to Mr Van Rooijen that this debate is about the climate agreement?" One way or another, you always know how to turn the debate around so that it is about pensions. Not only in the plenary, but also in committee. Whether in the Finance Committee or in the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment or in the EUZA Committee. Within the Committee on Finance, you are well aware that in any debate with the Minister of Finance, who is also here today, you are talking about the so-called interest rate of pension funds. You always dress it so elegantly that the other members of the committee are surprised even if the subject has not yet come to an end after a few minutes. Minister Hoekstra sometimes gets a little despondent. In the general consultation Ecofin of 3 April 2019 he said: "I thought I had stretched myself far beyond the reasonable and extended to content Mr. Van Rooijen with all possible questions he has asked, and then there is something else where it turns out to be complicated." What is also certain in the debates you are holding is that you refer at least once to your time as Secretary of State for Finance in the Den Uyl cabinet. Your memories of those years, which was from 1973 to 1977, are still alive and well. Perhaps that was why you tabled a motion in June 2018 to lighten the life of the current Secretary of State by appointing a second Secretary of State. Your name wasn't on it, but everyone knew it was Mr Van Rooijen. Unfortunately, you never put that motion to the vote. That is still possible, calls Mr Bosma now. Then, of course, there was the filibuster attempt in 2017. In the debate on the abolition of the Hillen Act, you asked for 15 hours' speaking time. You were well prepared; you must say that. With the members of the 50PLUS Group, I saw a Bigshopper full of tools going around with Potters, sweets and so on. And you also had sunglasses that night. Do you remember? Oh, yeah. After four and a half hours, you spoke the last words of your speech. However, you were complimented from different angles, because you were able to make a substantive argument all along. And there was, of course, that time your phone kept going off in the room and you couldn't find the switch off. Then you turned in your phone to me. You can't make a President's life better, but it's easier! But although you need your own instructions, I look back at you with admiration. I would like to give everyone some of the energy with which you are committed to the interests of your constituents. You are always here, from early in the morning to late in the evening, and you always know how to involve the main positions of 50PLUS in the debate. That commitment, that enthusiasm, combines you with an unprecedented historical knowledge. Your stories sometimes go back even further than Den Uyl's time. With your departure, therefore, there is also a part of our collective memory. I know that the clerks of the committee where you are active are going to miss you so much. These are all young clerks, who have all had a great deal to do with your knowledge and your historical awareness. I think I speak for all of us when I say we wish the First Chamber good luck coming. We're gonna miss you, your passion and your drive, the way you bite and don't let go, and your anecdotes about politics and sports. It was never boring if you were in the party. Many thanks for your commitment and good luck on the other side of the Binnenhof, but still in the heart of our democracy. Thank you very much, Mr. Van Rooijen!
