ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-5.u1	Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mr Futselaar, on behalf of the SP, for his question to the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media, whom I warmly welcome. This Minister replaces the Minister for Education, Culture and Science. The question is about the glue attempt of the Ministry for the National Student Survey. Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-5.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Each year hundreds of thousands of students complete the National Student Survey (NSE). They answer the question whether they are satisfied with the quality of their training. These results are published in different places. This is important, firstly because it gives the training itself the opportunity to compare the results with previous years. How do we do it? It is also important, because it allows future students to compare courses and make a well-founded choice for a study. The NSE actually makes visible to the outside world what is good or less good about education. That is very important. Maybe I should say it was very important. Because the universities and colleges have stated that they cannot agree to the progress of the NSE in its current form, we read at ScienceGuide. I would therefore like to ask the Minister the following questions. Does he share the opinion of the SP that the NSE is of great value and should therefore be preserved? What does the future of the NSE look like now? How do we prevent the voice of 270,000 students from being heard in the future? What's going on right now? What happens to bring in the colleges and universities? What were the main objections? Is the story true that especially the privacy rules within the GDPR are an obstacle? If that's the case, shouldn't it be legal? Or do the institutions have any other objections? Do not a number of institutions really want to publish figures about their own student satisfaction?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-5.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-5.u4	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Mr Futselaar for the questions he has put. I am indeed replacing my colleague, who intends to send a letter to the Chamber this week, at the request of Mr Futselaar. That's what's gonna happen. But, of course, I will answer his questions now. We think the NSE is very important. It is important for new students, but it is also important for the quality of the institutions. A solution to a problem has been worked out in recent months. This has already been communicated to the Chamber, through the answer of Ms Tielen's parliamentary questions around 2019. We checked to see if we could get out of the troubles that were there. Those were different kinds of problems. They had to do with privacy and execution. There was also discussion about whether or not to retain the anonymous option. Eventually, in the last week, at least the Association of Colleges and the VSNU, it was concluded that there were no clear answers with the Ministry. We just want to stick to that anonymous option and also to the NSE. That is why we have started working on an alternative. We do not know that alternative. We simply want to continue with the NSE and also with the important values that are underneath. The Minister, my colleague, Mr Van Engelshoven, is currently in the process of finalising a legislative proposal to at least ensure that there is a legal basis for the exchange of information, because we simply want to go through. This bill can go into internet consultation even this summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-5.u5	This raises the question of whether it is still possible to implement an NSE next year. Because, of course, time is about to run out at some point. In any case, I understand that the Minister or the ministers, I must say, do not follow the arguments of the institutions against the NSE to a large extent. The ministers want to go on. That's good to know. If we get a bill, is it not wise to make participation in the NSE compulsory for publicly funded higher education? Because then we are also a little out of these discussions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-5.u6	Mr. Chairman. I just indicated that the bill has already been prepared in far-reaching form. It can go into internet consultation this summer and will then, as soon as possible, go to the Council of State. If it is also dealt with quickly by the Chamber, it should be possible to secure this by 2020. I have just indicated that at least there will be a legal basis for the exchange of information. When dealing with the legislative proposal, the option of an obligation will also be explicitly taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-5.u7	That's good to know. Otherwise, we will amend it by then. One last question. There has also been an NSE in the past year. Mistakes have been made in that. As a result, the colleges have said: we are withdrawing from the NSE for this year. The universities have said: we are going to try to do something with that data, not to let them go lost. I would like to know how the Minister points to the judgement of the colleges that they should stop doing so. This has lost the data of tens of thousands of students. How do we stop things like this from happening in the future? It is a real sin, mortal sin of the data, mortal sin of the work of students who have filled it out and mortal sin of the work of teachers who have helped students fill it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-5.u8	There has already been communication with you about the data from the colleges and the fact that they have quit the process. Unfortunately, that is a fact that we will have to deal with for the next time at least. But everything is aimed at ensuring that in the next period both colleges and universities, not only the funded but also those who are not funded, participate fully in these student surveys. We believe that this data is important, as I have just said, not only for the new students but also for the quality of the institutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-5.u9	There is another interruption by Mrs Westerveld of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-5.u10	I thought the Minister's answers were pretty clear. He says that everything is aimed at ensuring that next year a student survey is simply conducted. What I understand is that there will have to be clarity about the tendering procedure within four weeks. So can the Minister guarantee that we can make sure that the student survey is still there next year?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-5.u11	I've indicated what the trial is now. There's another letter coming to your room this week. People are busy preparing the law for the internet consultation. So everything is aimed at ensuring that by 2020, full-time higher education, i.e. both colleges of higher education and universities, are connected. That's the stake, and we're just gonna put our hands together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-02-tweedekamer-5.u12	Thank you. That also brings us to the end of oral Question Time. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments.
