ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr Nijboer's question to the Minister of Finance on the increasing number of pin failures is now on the agenda. I would like to welcome the Minister of Finance. Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's a whole different subject. Yesterday afternoon, in Zoetermeer, Middelburg, Groningen, Breda and Maastricht, there were lots of people who had filled their shopping cart and couldn't pay for their messages. They couldn't do that an hour later, and then they just went home undecided. This shows the utility function, the vital function, of our payments in society. I have questions to the Minister of Finance about whether this utility function is sufficiently guaranteed. My first question to the Minister is how it is possible that such a major disturbance can occur for such a long time in the Netherlands, the Albert Heijn. Was there no backup system available? Then there is the second question. I understand from the media that it is because of a measure taken by KPN in the context of data security. That is a very large telecom provider, also a vital infrastructure in our society. How can there be such a big effect on the payment system if such a provider apparently does not have his business in order? The third question is whether the standards we have by law is sufficient if you see such a big impact on shopping alone. Do you have any idea what would happen if someone deliberately wanted to discourage payments, if someone really did so with bad intentions, because this seems to be a mistake? Is that sufficiently protected and should that not be done much better?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u3	I shall now give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to Mr Nijboer for the questions asked and for asking for attention on this issue. A number of comments. The first is that what happened is, of course, really annoying. That is where Mr Nijboer and I agree for the people involved, people who were shopping at one of the stores of the firm Ahold, namely Albert Heijn, Etos and Gall & Gall. It was also not pleasant for the cashiers, who had to pay it off in many shops. For what happened there was, so I understood, in not all cases only beautiful. The second is that it is also important to mark because of Mr Nijboer's questions that this was an IT malfunction in a private company, namely Ahold. The private party, exactly as Mr Nijboer says, which Ahold then again deals with, namely KPN, had apparently introduced a software change that caused problems with the payments there. The third thing that is different is about the payments themselves. So that's really about the function of the banks. Mr Nijboer is quite right, of course, that this is vital for the Dutch economy. This is also vital for well-being. The availability of payments is very high in the Netherlands. I believe that the standard is 99%, but the results are considerably higher than that 99%, whereas we can all imagine that, of course, the amount of pin transactions has only increased, even in recent years. The fourth and last thing I would like to say about it is that, of course, I have repeatedly pointed out to the Chamber why I think it is so important, and I think that Mr Nijboer and others are very much in favour of it. Even if it is practical for the consumer to pay with pin, such a situation is precisely why I think it is very important that cash can also be paid with cash, even in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u5	I would like to ask for that standard, because if it were 99%, it would be far too low. We have 365 days a year. If we can't afford three days in the year, our economy will be in enormous chaos. I would ask the Minister to be more precise about this. My second question was about the backup system. At hospitals, the generators are ready for when the electricity goes out. Is there not such a system in place for the payment system? The third question is about the currency, the cash that people have. You saw that the ATMs were empty in no time. Even in cities you have to cycle for about ten minutes to find an ATM. Is that sufficiently guaranteed?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u6	Let's talk about the first question. I can mention a few more percentages. In 2018 Mr Nijboer will understand that we don't have this year's figures yet: the percentage for pins and contactless payments was 99,89%. For mobile banking it was 99,75% and for internet banking 99,72%. That is all very high, but it is about the results we have achieved on payments. The second thing that is important to add is that in this particular case it is a pin failure, or you have to say: an IT failure. This failure led to the fact that one organisation could no longer pay with a pass, while paying with cash was still possible there and one could also go to the ATM on the corner or go to another supermarket. I do not want to trivialise the problem, but it is something fundamentally different from a problem related to payments, which would mean that people would no longer have access to electronic payments in general. I do not have the answer to Mr Nijboer's last question, how it is done with the equipment of the ATMs. I would like to exchange that with him in writing. For the sake of completeness, as far as the percentages I mentioned are concerned, the standard for the high period is 99.88%. So that's where we were on the right side of the line. 98.5% is the percentage for other times. If that's helpful, I can still put all that in a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u7	I would like to look forward to the letter with the exact percentages. I would like to talk about the gravity of the situation. Something could always fall out or go wrong. This can also be done in the case of electricity supply. Fortunately, this does not happen too much in the Netherlands. My point is that payments have a vital economic and social importance. You're not gonna be able to pay at a gas station when you have to go to a job interview. That really is a social problem. I do not think that the government should deal lightly with this and that it should insist that the public interest is safeguarded. On that subject, I have one more question. There's one private cash company that's filling the ATMs now. One company went bankrupt, and that's bad enough, but there's one company that fills all our ATMs. So we are all dependent on the operation of that company whether the ATMs are filled. Does the Minister think that this is justified or does he also say there with the PvdA that this is a public task and that we should better guarantee it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u8	Let's talk about the first one. I have tried to put it into practice, and I agree with Mr Nijboer on this point that keeping the payment infrastructure in order is extremely important for the whole country. Now this one is historically, but also if you compare it to abroad, very well. What is also very well in order is that other file, where it is about the possibility to pay without interference from private parties. The situation yesterday was remarkable and was annoying and unhappy, but fortunately in the Netherlands it is really an exception. It's a different type of numbers than abroad. I think that is important, because Mr Nijboer and I agree on the importance of this, but it is good to reiterate the context here. Mr. Chairman. Mr Nijboer's last question was about cash. He and I had a written exchange of views on this. We agreed on the importance of adequate access to ATMs. We then looked at whether the disappearance of one of those parties is now prohibitive for filling those ATMs. I think I already made the undertaking to Mr Nijboer that I would like to be in a letter before the end of this year, but I would have to check the deadline to come back to whether there is a potential problem here or not, and that I will also consult De Nederlandsche Bank and the ACM about it, because they probably have a better understanding of it than I do. I hereby renew that promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u9	Thank you, Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u11	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-3.u12	Thank you.
