ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-55.u1	The next item is the debate on the decision of the Advisory Committee on Rejecting Observants. A warm word of welcome to the Minister for Legal Protection. We have two speakers from the Chamber. The first is Mr Van den Berge of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. The floor is up to him. He has, like everyone else, two minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-55.u2	Thank you, Mr President. We held a written consultation with the Minister on the draft decision refusing observers. I note from the answers in the written consultation that we agree on the purpose: it should be possible, in extreme cases, to obtain medical data from suspects who do not want to participate voluntarily in an investigation into their mental state. However, we would like to see the draft decision completed in a different way. Actually, that's what's in the question of where the sieve function is. The draft decision shall lay down that sieve function before the Advisory Commission. There is something to be said for this, but as far as our group is concerned, this screening function should be placed with medical professionals and with the treatment provider, so that the infringement of professional secrecy can be reduced to the minimum necessary. That's why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the draft Decision obliges traders to provide complete medical records on request without having recourse to their right to change linked to medical professional secrecy;]] [[Whereas this unbiased restriction of medical professional secrecy may damage the relationship of trust between treatment and treatment and may lead to the disclosure of irrelevant medical information in criminal matters;]] [[calls on the Government to consult with representatives from medical and psychiatric practice on how medical information necessary for the performance of the consultative commission's task can remain outside the scope of the provision obligation and to inform the Chamber of the results,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Berge. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33628-65]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-55.u3	I wonder if GroenLinks realizes that the motion as it has now been tabled is actually contrary to the law as passed by the Upper Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-55.u4	No, I'm not aware of that, but I don't think that's right either, because we don't take anything away from what's in the Forensic Care Act. Nor do we detract from the intentions of the bill and the draft decision. That's what I just indicated. I believe that the Minister and my group agree on the objective. We are concerned purely with the content, role and responsibilities of that advisory committee. We want to place more responsibility on the handler for the consideration of which information is relevant to the advisory committee and which is not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-55.u5	Thank you. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Van Wijngaarden from the VVD group, but he will refrain from speaking. I don't see anyone else interested. The Minister can answer immediately. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-55.u6	Mr President, thank you. Thank you also for the prompt written examination of this regulation. It will enable us to ensure that this committee is in the air quickly. Mr. Chairman. I do not recommend Mr Van den Berge's motion, particularly because I think it is important that this screening function should be included in the committee and that it is not up to the individual psychiatrist to decide what should and should not be included in the criminal proceedings. A very careful process has been set up. Also on the committee there are three people with a medical background, so also there can really be well estimated what is relevant to eventually include in a PJ-report. In addition, there is a judicial test. This is not a substantive review of the information, but it looks at whether it contributes to the criminal proceedings and whether it is really necessary, as some sort of last resort. I believe that this is a sufficient guarantee.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-55.u7	Thank you. So much for this VSO.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-04-tweedekamer-55.u8	Today we are going to vote on this one motion. Thank you very much to the Minister for Legal Protection for being with us at this late hour. Then we have arrived at the very last VAO of this parliamentary year.
