ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-6.u1	I open this VSO Principles for the division of roles between the CBS and market players. I welcome the Minister and I am the first to give the floor to Mrs Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-6.u2	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to congratulate the Minister on his commitment to tackling unfair competition. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the turnover from activities carried out by the CBS outside the lump sum received annually by EZK has doubled in recent years;]] [[Whereas the CBS is increasingly providing services to (central) governments and private parties through, inter alia, active acquisition and tying, previously provided by market players, and that this leads to unfair competition;]] [[Having regard to the motion for a resolution by Mr van den Berg/Veldman on no unfair competition by the CBS (34775-XIII, No. 140);]] [[Whereas until 1 January 2017, the Central Committee for Statistics (CCS) supervised the CBS;]] [[Whereas good cooperation and fair competition between all parties requires a cautious attitude of the CBS and a clear division of tasks between the CBS, industry and knowledge institutions;]] [[Whereas, under the new policy rules, active acquisition and tying are prohibited by the CBS;]] [[Calls on the Government to establish independent supervision to ensure compliance with the policy rules, to ensure that work carried out by the CBS outside the lump sum it receives annually from EZK does not lead to unfair competition, and to report annually to the Chamber;]] [[calls on the Government to engage in discussions with local authorities on the use of the CBS for statistical surveys and not to award them underhand;]] [[calls on the Government to make additional agreements with the CBS on which activities are subject to the prohibition of active acquisition and therefore to abstain from CBS, e.g. recruitment through so-called "data ecosystem days,"]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Berg and Mr Wiersma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIII-95]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-6.u3	A long and complex motion with new terms such as "data ecosystem days" on a simple problem, namely that government organisations and market players sometimes get in the way of each other and then these market players feel they are being unfairly competitive. That has often been the case in the past. There were all kinds of cases. Only, for this purpose there is also an important other instrument, which we as Chamber and Cabinet have been working on for a long time, and that is the Market and Government Act. This law is about preventing unfair competition between public authorities and businesses. The CDA has not always been a very enthusiastic party in this area in recent years. I would therefore like to ask Mrs van den Berg: should we follow a somewhat larger, firmer and more structural approach in solving this problem rather than constantly submitting such long-winded and complex motions?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-6.u4	I would like to make three comments. Firstly, the term "ecosystem days" belongs to the CBS itself. So the CDA didn't make that up. Secondly, let us say first of all that we attach great importance to the fact that the CBS continues to carry out the activities it carries out for the central government. We point out the quality of the CBS. It delivers excellent products. So we'd like to keep it that way. We don't want to change that either. We are concerned with the piece that the CBS carries out outside the lumpsum on activities. That was always about 10% of the turnover. In an earlier response in the Upper Chamber, that 10% also emerged. In recent years that has grown enormously and now it is above 20%. So that's where there's unfair competition. We as CDA want to do something about that. Mr Verhoeven says that the Market and Government Act is also an instrument for this. We note, however, that this has not been sufficient at the moment. We do agree with Mr Verhoeven that the Market and Government Act applies to this upper part of the CBS, but not to the basic tasks of the CBS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-6.u5	Thank you to Mrs van den Berg for this enlightening answer. I agree with her on the CBS. The CBS is doing an incredibly important, high-quality work. The CBS is also one of the organisations of the government that is very good at data and digitization. In this sense, my group also has a very positive assessment and a very positive view. Then the Market and Government Act. Yes, there is now an article in it that makes it possible to remove all kinds of situations where unfair competition takes place under the heading of 'general interest'. That law isn't sharp. That law has an escape clause which must be removed in order to combat more effectively this kind of situation, which Mrs van den Berg is calling for attention to be given to. Is the CDA in favour of tackling the Market and Government Act and removing the escape route for such practices?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-6.u6	In my opinion, we agreed in the government agreement on the Market and Government Act, in the sense that we would look at that with each other. The CDA is aware that we would like to continue to see municipal initiatives in the field of sports support or culture as services of general economic interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-6.u7	Thank you. I call Mr Wiersma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-6.u8	Mr President, thank you. The Netherlands has fantastic research offices. The Netherlands is also doing fantastic research. We know a lot too. This is partly because we have such good offices, but also a very good CBS that helps all these different research offices in the Netherlands to do their research properly. It is a pity that sometimes there are times when you think: boys, work well together, don't beat each other off, let that mistrust go. I am pleased that the Minister has taken action to get things right in this respect, but we still have concerns, in the sense that there is some mistrust in the various organisations and between each other. We shouldn't have that, because there's a lot more that binds us than what separates us. Therefore, a motion with an appeal to the Minister. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are complaints from commercial statistical offices about unfair competition by the CBS;]] [[noting that policy rules are being drawn up to clarify the division of roles between the CBS and market players;]] [[whereas it is necessary for the CBS to develop into a strong player in our data society but at the same time it is important that the above clarity is ensured so that a level playing field is established and maintained;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the availability of files to market participants is not unnecessarily restricted, provided that the security and privacy interests of citizens and businesses are safeguarded, and that the supervision of pricing by the CBS is ensured with the help of independent process guidance, and that the concept of third party activities is further clarified and, where necessary, limited,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wiersma and Mr Van den Berg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIII-96]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-6.u9	Finally, Mr President. A few weeks ago, it was Entrepreneur's Day. We have paid a lot of attention to this at the VVD. There have also been many visits. What we heard is that the CBS is asking entrepreneurs for a lot of information on a sample basis. That's good. As a result, the Netherlands knows a lot, but we also sometimes get complaints that the same companies are sometimes questioned several years in a row, but then the workload becomes very large for them. My question is whether the Minister will undertake to discuss with the CBS and the associations of businessmen how this can be done in a proper way, so that entrepreneurs do not suffer unnecessarily from the CBS, but all of them enjoy this beautiful collection of data.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-6.u10	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-6.u11	Mr. Chairman. As political parties, we often debate differences in ideology here, in visions of what society should look like, in solutions to practical problems. That's fine. That's how it should be. What we shouldn't be discussing is the facts. They should be indeterminately fixed. That is why this country is blessed with a functioning independent Central Bureau of Statistics, which collects, manages and analyzes the facts, the data, for us. Anyone who wants to know what happens to a country that does not have an independent, good statistical manager, I refer to the recent history of Greece. Thorough collection of data, to base policy on it, is a core social task and therefore belongs to the government, especially in times when privacy and file-linking are becoming increasingly important issues. I refer just to the sensible things Mr Verhoeven said about this in an own-initiative paper recently. As far as I am concerned, the fact that local authorities like to use data and the skills of the CBS rather than choose private agencies is something to be proud of. That speaks for the quality of the CBS. Mr. Chairman. We have enough public bodies in this country that are dysfunctional at the moment. Let's not mess with the couple who are doing well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-6.u12	Is the Minister in need of a suspension or is he in a position to respond correctly? He needs a short suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-6.u13	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-6.u14	Mr. Chairman. It seems to be a matter of two motions and of a practical nature, but of course the views on markets and public authorities do play a part in this. This has been emphasised by the various speakers. Let me just say that we have to make a distinction here. I'm a little strict about that. Of course, there's the lump sum job. That's not what we're talking about. We are talking about two types of activity, both of which are under discussion here and which cannot be confused here. One is a lot more serious than the other. We have made it clear that the CBS as a public organisation should not impose tax money on private companies in a private market. That's market and government thinking. There is also something in another segment here, namely that the government as a whole sometimes decides that that government as a whole has a government function carried out by a government organisation. I do not call that 'procurement' or 'outsourcing', I call that 'insourcing'. Then it is important, and we are a bit strict in that too, that if it can be done as well or better by a private company, we must of course be able to honour it. That is why we have drawn up policy rules to see whether this is being considered wherever possible. 'Cause that's gonna make everybody better. It is not said that the CBS is appropriate or most appropriate for each task, and it is certainly not mandatory in that segment. I do make that distinction, and that is why I distance myself a little from the words 'unfair competition' in Mrs van den Berg's motion. That is what we are talking about at the end of the day, but we understand each other very well that private companies should be given a chance where that is useful. We share that thought. There is one other point in Mrs van den Berg's speech which I should like to make. No, there's not actually a growth in that segment. At least, there is one in the statistics, but the lumpsum has been reduced and therefore a definition shift has brought something under another segment. That alarming statement from those graphs is explained by something other than a large influx of new assignments. I shall now turn to the assessment of the motions, with the comments made, which, as far as I am concerned, do not need to be corrected in the text. I give the House's verdict to Mrs Van den Berg's motion and Mr Wiersma's motion in respect of item No. 95. Here's what we're gonna do. Just give me a chance to fill that out in a good way. I would like the advisory board to play a role in this. I'm naming it, so that's on my behalf. I would like to put it in a proper, Dutch, customary manner in such a way that through the advisory board it leads to an orderly way of doing things.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-6.u15	I understand from the Minister that he wants me to check that out and double-check it through the advisory board, perhaps by an additional appointment, so that someone who specifically...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-6.u16	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-6.u17	... looks into whether that super-legal piece is proceeding in an orderly manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-6.u18	Yes. To ensure that supervision is not carried out within the Executive Board... Yes, as a function within the board of directors, but that there is with the eyes of a supervisor because that is a bit the definition of this board of advice.... is also considered from the board of advice on this matter, which also deserves a place in the regular annual reporting. Yeah? That's how I want to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-6.u19	Since I have to advise my group, I still have one question for the Minister. I am very impressed by that notion of unfair competition. I also informed Mrs van den Berg this morning. Now the Minister is bringing it up, but he still gives Chamber judgment. Because by definition, a state-owned company is guilty of unfair competition because it receives state aid. There can be no level playing field with a state-owned company.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-6.u20	Let us put it this way: physically, I think I disagree with Mr Graus, because he always thinks it is unfair competition. I am just saying that in this case it is not unfair competition. But I will still give the motion judgment, Chamber, because this is a consideration of the author. I would like to make a comment on that, at most, but I leave this to the authors themselves. I'm responding to the operative part, so at the request of the government. I can agree to that request to the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-6.u21	Then the next motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-6.u22	I come to the second motion, in part No. 96. It calls on the government to ensure that the availability of stocks to market participants is not unduly restricted. Of course, the passage "not unnecessary" requires some attention. We do not want confidential data from companies or citizens to be on the streets in any way. I want to ensure the monitoring of pricing in the manner previously discussed. The need for further clarification of the work to be done on third parties has demonstrated this discussion, which I also take on board. I would like to make one comment, and I would ask the applicant to choose another concept for 'independent counsellor'. "Independent process guidance" is not entirely appropriate, given history. Because the organizations that speak from the market here have been very regular in the department and have been able to do their bit. I think they will be at the top of the list of interest groups. But I also think it's too light to do it just by trial counseling. I'm just trying to secure it in the organization. That's much more sustainable. I do not intend to appoint a separate trial counselor, but I am looking for a heavier means through a council of advice and a supervisory activity. So if that word 'procedural guidance' is removed from the motion, I think there is a sensible appeal in the motion and I leave it to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-6.u23	I'm willing to see how we can do it differently. I'd like to share the concern with the Minister. It is proposed to appoint a competitive neutrality officer within the CBS. That sounds good to me. But if there is any disturbance, there is a feeling that the butcher will approve his own flesh. Then it is good to ensure that, in the run-up to that, all parties have a good feeling about the current policy rules. Hence the call to find someone who will ensure that it is done in a proper way, with the support of both parties. If the Minister finds another form for this, I support it. As long as we find it that way. I agree with the Minister that this should ultimately be secured in that organisation. But the road to it needs to be done in a proper way, so that trust is not destroyed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-6.u24	I really don't share that at this point. The costs must be objectively traceable. That is not a question of negotiation. Nor is it the case that the butcher has to approve his own flesh. That's why I want to secure it through the board of counsel. I don't want to discuss objective data like the cost. We're not gonna do that. We must therefore establish this objectively. This may give rise to unpleasant truths for the CBS, and this may give rise to unpleasant truths for market players. But only along the lines of objectivity and not through poldering, we come here. The polder is a great asset, but not for this kind of data. So I want to make sure of that, too. I want a board of advice to look at that with the eyes of a supervisor. But that seems like the way to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-6.u25	That'll help me. Because it is that objectivity that is at stake, and it must not be at stake.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-6.u26	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-6.u27	So I will see if I can get that sentence out of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-6.u28	I have not yet seen the motion in its new form, of course, but I think we are talking about the same about four words that would then come out. If we're talking about the same thing, I'll give the motion judgment chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-6.u29	Okay. This puts an end to this VSO Principles for the division of roles between the CBS and market players.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-18-tweedekamer-6.u30	Voting on motions will take place tomorrow at the beginning of the afternoon sitting.
