ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u1	The next item is the debate on the own-initiative legislative proposal 34456, the proposal for a law of the Member Verhoeven amending the Code of Criminal Law and the Code of Criminal Law BES in order to repeal certain special provisions concerning insults to Heads of State or other public persons and institutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u2	Before I give the floor to Mr Verhoeven after the resumption of the debate, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Bikker, who has an addition to her first-term speech. Mrs. Bikker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the first period, I referred to Article 39 (2) of the Staff Regulations. In the meantime, a letter has been received by the Committee on Justice and Security on behalf of the Minister responsible for Saint Martin, in which she states on behalf of the Committee that Sint-Maarten would indeed have liked to be consulted. I would ask the President to include this letter in the debate. That's the first thing. And I would ask the author to respond to this letter and, in fact, to allow the consultation to take place before we continue the examination of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u4	The latter is a proposal of order, so I will look into it in a moment. I should like to ask the author, Mr Verhoeven, perhaps to be the first to respond, if he is able to do so, to the letter received from the Minister responsible for Saint Martin, Mrs Jorien Wuite. Moreover, as you have just heard, a proposal of order has actually been made by Mrs Bikker, namely to first respond to the call of the Minister responsible for Saint Martin to consult the other countries of the Caribbean part of the Kingdom. First, we need to see what your reaction to this is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u5	Mr President, thank you. I'm not standing here with my mouth full of teeth, but of course I'm surprised by the way things are going. I just got this letter under my nose. I am merely a Member of Parliament who makes a suggestion to the members of the Senate, but I would imagine that I would reply in the first term. Then I shall also come to this point. If there are any frictions or other points that need to be discussed then, as far as I am concerned, it is best to do so after some reflection in the second term. In order to respond to this now as l'improviste without having been able to respond to the other points after, of course, listening to the input of your Chamber, I would find it strange. Perhaps I am completely wrong and you have a better proposal or the procedural point leads to another proposal, but I would like to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u6	In itself, I think your proposal is very reasonable. I see Mrs Bikker and Mrs Strik at the interrupting microphone. We wait for what both ladies have to bring in and then we make a decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u7	What is complicated is that Article 39 of the Statute says: consult first and then deal with it. There's my search. If that is simply an omission, then we will have to do that consultation first, because it may affect the initial period of the response by the initiator. But I'd just like to do this in conjunction with this Chamber. So I am just looking for the interpretation of Article 39, second paragraph.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u8	You're not trying to put a spoke in the wheels, you're pointing out the Statute. Of course, the law has already been passed in the Lower House. So that omission has already taken place, if we assume that it would be an omission. It's already taken place. So we should just try to get out of here to use a CDA term. I'll get to that in a minute. Mrs Strik, you also have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u9	I also mentioned that point. It is, of course, already at a late stage in the legislative process, but I can also imagine that it would be desirable for us to first hear the answers from the initiator in particular. Then we'll find out why he hasn't done the consultation yet. Then perhaps we can make a decision to hold and allow that consultation to take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u10	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u11	Can I have a minute first? Mrs Strik, to be honest, you take the words out of my mouth. At this stage, I think it would be wise to first hear the answer from the initiator and also from the Minister for Security and Justice. Then we will consider the step to be taken. 'Cause we're too late anyway, to put it that way. Otherwise, it's gonna stay in the air really bad. We'll see about that. And then Mr Verhoeven also had time to think more deeply about the consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u12	Mr. Chairman. In general, my thinking doesn't go so fast that I've already thought more deeply. Some of my colleagues know that. However, I can say that in my first speech I am going to address this point in the first place and I will say that my assessment is very explicit that we do not think it would be a major change on the basis of which it would be necessary, in accordance with Article 39, to put that question of opinion. We did not ask for the view, because we do not think it is a major change. I will continue to support and argue this later. In fact, we are following Article 39 and therefore consider it not an omission but a choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u13	May I ask: do you not consider it a major change following the amendments in the House of Representatives or from the time the bill was submitted?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u14	Not in either case. The changes in the House of Representatives were not far-reaching. Our proposal was not so far-reaching on this point either. So in all cases it has never been radical, either before or after amendment by the House of Representatives. We have aimed at a targeted and limited modification of the Code of Criminal Law. It has not always been significant, as provided for in Article 39 of the Statute. But I'm gonna come up with a lot of that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u15	I can quote one of your predecessors. This is Professor Glastra van Loon, who has been a member of the Upper House. He said: you can see the same things differently and there are others who see it differently. I give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen, and then I give Mr Verhoeven the opportunity to reply in the first time. The Minister of Security and Justice then follows.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u16	Mr. Van Dijk!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u17	What did I say?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u18	I believe you said "Van Rooijen."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u19	Well, I'm getting confused now. Why I come up with that, I don't understand. Mr. Diederik van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u20	No problem. I think it's a bit complicated when it's a simple Senator thing. Just think of it a little bit as a point of order. What is or is not a major change? Actually, I kind of need a little bit of support, maybe by the Warrior. How do we determine what is or is not significant and how do we determine how far-reaching or far-reaching such an omission is? Can Sint-Maarten also object in certain ways to everything we are doing now? Can we get some of that up there?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u21	Then may I tell you one thing? That is a political question, and that is not a question that can be answered by the Registrar.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u22	I'd like to join in on that. It is precisely these questions on this point that have been asked in the first period, regardless of the letter that has just been distributed. So if we get an answer to that, then I think every Member of Parliament can then make further procedural proposals according to cases. But not for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u23	So that's what we're doing now. Mr Verhoeven and Minister Grapperhaus are given the floor to answer in the first term the questions that were asked in the first term from the Chamber. Mr Verhoeven, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u24	Mr President, thank you. It does me great pleasure to be here anyway. It is a pleasure and an honor to be able to defend a bill again on behalf of the House of Representatives in your house. I was here earlier in May 2013. Then it was about the Shopping Times Act. At that time, it was allowed to appeal to the First Chamber to support that proposal. I hope to be able to get there again today, so that we can do so next week. I got a lot of compliments from the senators. These, of course, bear witness to the understanding and perhaps also to the experience that legislation is a lot of work, so much so that a Member of Parliament cannot possibly do this on his own. That is why I would like to express my deepest thanks to my support team, my colleagues behind the scenes for this proposal. These are Eva van Vorselen, Floor van der Zee, Carsten Zwaaneveld and Huub Linthorst. The latter two, in particular, really need to be mentioned as legal brains that are always at the heart of this proposal without losing their keen eye for finesse, detail and consistency. So thank you very much, I would like to say to both in particular. If it weren't for them, I wouldn't have been here today. Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about the balance between freedom of expression and the right of everyone to protect their good name, honour and human dignity, in particular as regards our head of state, foreign heads of state, representatives of the people, administrators and civil servants. The legislative proposal we are now discussing aims to modernise the provisions of the Criminal Code in the light of the changed legal concepts, which are reflected, inter alia, in the case law of the European Court of Human Rights. Mr. Chairman. Of course, I would like to thank the spokesmen who expressed a positive opinion on the legislative proposal in the first place this morning. I am thinking in particular of Mr Dercksen, Mrs Andriessen, Mr Schouwenaar, Mr Nagel, Mr Verheijen, Mr Ten Hoeve, Mr Köhler and Mrs Strik, although there were of course many questions from other groups. In addition, interesting comments have been made by the members of your Chamber and many questions have been asked. I'm gonna do my best to answer it as best I can. In doing so, I broadly stick to the order of the articles in the current Code. First, we go to majesty desecration itself, then to the foreign heads of state, then to increased penalties and finally to the complaint requirement. That is exactly what Mr Schouwenaar said in his speech. First of all, a few general comments. I would suggest that the reason for this bill is not, as Mrs Bikker seems to assume, that too high penalties have been imposed in recent years for desecration of majesty. What matters to me is that legislation should be timely and provide sufficient legal certainty. This regularly means that drafting of legal provisions must be adapted in the light of national or international case law. This is particularly important when it comes to restricting fundamental rights, in this case freedom of expression. Mr. Chairman. Citizens must also know that freedom is not unlimited. They must therefore know where these limits lie. This will be problematic if, as Mr Van Dijk seems to want, we are going to bring elements of mystery and magic into criminal law, allowing citizens to be sentenced to far-reaching punishments. That is quite different from royal privileges in the area of duty-free or funeral expenses. On the other hand, we do not need to lay down these limits in such a way as to make it clear in advance whether or not they constitute a criminal offence. You can't. That was a bit like Mrs Van Bijsterveld seemed to suggest. Of course, it is the judge who, in any particular case, assesses whether there is a criminal expression, given its content and context. However, the question of whether or not there can be recourse to a penalty exclusion basis in relation to the public debate should never become unclear. If that clarity is not there or not enough, what is called the 'chilling effect' in the legal literature, also in my answer to written questions and at previous times, may arise. Then, just to be safe, the citizen will keep his mouth shut. I do not know how often and to what extent that has occurred or occurred. No one knows, because a chilling effect plays in people's heads and is therefore not known or precisely measurable. That does not alter the fact that it does. Mrs Bikker asked if she understood correctly that this could occur if there was uncertainty about the enforcement of a strict criminal law standard. I have to answer that that's not the point. It is a question of unclear how strict the standard is and, in particular, of whether there is any possibility of recourse to.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Of course, we can raise our shoulders about that chilling effect. For example, when it comes to criticizing your neighbor, we may wonder how bad it is that there is a chilling effect. But when it comes to government and government officials, something fundamental is going on. This is because a core value of our democratic society is at stake. There must always be room for a public debate and there must also be room for emotions and resulting expressions of opinion. In doing so, public officials may be required to take more pleasure in themselves than random citizens. A number of your Members have pointed this out. That is purely because their function entails that. A representative of the people, as we said in the House of Representatives during the discussion of this subject, must have a bit of a hit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u25	Mrs. Strik? That was a suspicious walk. I thought you were going to the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u26	Am I just gonna keep going, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u27	Yes, please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u28	With us there are also sometimes walks and then we just keep talking, but I didn't know if that was the use here as well. However, it does not yet give a free pass for uninhibited insults, but it does fit into a democratic rule of law to leave ample room for criticism of government, government institutions and officials. That should also be fierce, emotional criticism or mockery. If we don't or let's deliberately blur it, then we have a real problem. Then we get that chilling effect, with the result perhaps social discontent that remains below the surface but is indeed there. Or one day we run into a conviction from the European Court of Human Rights. I therefore dispute that this point would not be a problem, as Mrs Van Bijsterveld and Mr Van Dijk have argued. In the explanatory statement, I have reviewed the case law of the European Court of Human Rights and in the further reply I have analysed the limited case law in the Netherlands on this point even more thoroughly than Mr Van Uden had done. Mrs Van Bijsterveld mentioned a piece by Mr Van Uden from the Magazine of Constitutional Law. I have read the article with great interest and in the second statement of reply we have responded to it. From this I have concluded that it is unclear how the Dutch judge will deal with an insulting statement to the King made in the context of the social or public debate in the current state of law. This is particularly true when the court is considered to involve magical dimensions in its judgment as a result of the place of the insulting article in the title on royal dignity. You could also put that into perspective, under the motto that it is not that bad and that it is not a priority, but I do not participate in that, and the House of Representatives also thought it was time to deal with this. The right balance of fundamental rights is always a priority for me. Mr. Chairman. Several spokesmen have shown that they value a special provision. It is an independent provision relating to insulting the King. These included Mr Van Dijk and Mr Ten Hoeve and Mrs Bikker and Mrs Bijsterveld. They preferred to preserve these documents in the title of the Code of Criminal Law which relates to royal dignity. Mrs Bikker asked for an explanation. So that's Title II in the Criminal Code. In answer to her question, I find that name rather outdated. Indeed, the title is not only about insult but also about attacks on the life and sexual assault of the person of the King and of certain family members, whether or not for a terrorist purpose. In that case, according to today's standards, there is a lot more going on than the loss of royal dignity. I am thinking more of a violent attempt to assault our constitutional order and also of the value of the democratic rule of law. Of course, there must be firm penalties for this. The place in the Code of Criminal Law in which that is regulated is not very important to me. However, in any case, violence falls outside the scope of this whole proposal and has always done so. Now it's just about insult. In our democratic rule of law, the King is a symbol of national unity and is entitled to respect. I agree with Mrs Bikker and others. However, criminal law is limited in its capacity to enforce it. The respect of a King or Queen derives first and foremost from the way in which he or she performs the function. Mr Schouwenaar also said something about this, as did others. The way in which the present King does this, we can only be satisfied. I've called him a modern king in that context. However, we must ensure that we adapt the law if changes in the legal situation give rise to this. That is actually as Mr Schouwenaar outlined in his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u29	Mr Schouwenaar has no choice but to explain how he sees it, but I notice that the author is always talking about the King's person. He claims that the present prince is doing well. That's right, I think we're all happy about that. But it's about the king's office. I was not a senator myself, but several of my colleagues have already sworn allegiance to the King on day one, when the King was inaugurated. That's something else. The King is an institution. I miss that in the consideration of royal dignity. Could you reflect a little more on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u30	I have said something about this at various times. The King is more than a person. It is also more than a post: it is an institution, a symbol, an important connecting institution for the Netherlands. For us, however, this does not mean that we cannot take the steps we are taking with this bill. In my view, the link made by Mrs Bikker and others has not been made very clearly by me. I believe that we can indeed proceed with the modernisation of the Code of Criminal Law on these elements. I think you've argued it all more or less. You have also all said that the maximum sentence of five years is far too heavy. I think almost all people find that here. The question was only in which part of the Criminal Code it should have been in. The discussion was whether you are doing so as we do in this proposal, which is to delete and move to the part where the rest is also well regulated, with an extension to regulate, for example, the grounds for exclusion, or that you are going to reduce in the article itself. We have chosen that first, but I will not ignore what you consider so important, namely the position and role of the King, as a person and as an institution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u31	In any case, that impression does give the initiator the impression that the King must deserve respect and authority. Of course it grows as a result, but he is already the King and with that he is that institution, he has that office and he is called to it. From day one, we have the King as the King. That is precisely why I asked my questions about the legal system, because the title above Articles 111 to 113 is about the royal dignity and the article to which the King must now derive his protection in case of insult is simply about insults. This initiator now puts the King in front of it and with that the title is about royal dignity......................................................................................................................................................... Actually, it's a little inconsistent what the initiator says. He says that royal dignity is an outdated concept and that what was said in Articles 111 to 113 is in need of modernisation. That's why he scrapes it and puts it in insults, but he leaves the title of the crimes against royal dignity standing. There are then Articles 108 to 110 that see an attack on the King's life. I don't quite see the modernisation. In any case, the renovation is limited. The conservatory is standing, but the house isn't yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u32	A limited renovation is not necessarily inconsistent. I believe that any change to the Penal Code is a limited change, because otherwise we would have to change the entire Penal Code, and that is almost impossible to do by initiative law. So I shall argue this again later, because it is in line with the point of order that was made at the beginning of the procedure that we opted for a limited change concerning Articles 111 to 113 and 118 and 119, i.e. the special articles, the special high penalties and other penalties for insulting the Majesty or a friendly Head of State. In doing so, we have made a limited change, which does indeed bring about a modernisation of the article. Therefore, it is not a question of deleting the article altogether. We're making it smaller and we're modernising it. So it's actually a modernisation by making it smaller, which fits in with the change of time. We do so, looking through our social-liberal glasses, saying: you must, of course, maintain a number of things. But you can arrange that well under the commune articles of Title XVI.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u33	It is a complex reasoning that the initiator now holds, namely that we do not delete the article, but move it. But that's not true. Articles 111 to 113 are deleted. That's one of the first sentences of your own bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u34	I meant the title. Title II is not deleted in its entirety.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u35	The title "Missing against Royal Dignity" remains. From that you remove all the articles about the insult of the King, the Queen, the Regent and the heir. You'll move it to "Insult." Law-systematically, you do something with that. You're taking something away from the title about royal dignity and putting it in that about insult. In my opinion, you're messing with that law when you look at the law system. You're putting the King in a very different place. You could have left that weakened form, which you are proud of and which you say 'that is a modernisation', neatly under the title 'Missing against royal dignity'. For an outsider, this could sound like "what are they talking about now?', But it's just a question of whether a law is properly organized. We are also responsible for the fact that it is a decent law, which is readable. What the petitioner is doing now is that he limits "Missing against royal dignity" to crimes against and members of the King. He's putting the insult somewhere else entirely. I have not yet heard a conclusive argument as to why this is a modernisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u36	If Mrs Bikker's final reasoning were there, she would eventually vote in favour of this proposal at the end of the day. The chances of that are not very great, and she has been very clear about that. That's not a big deal either. Mrs Bikker is basically right that it could have been done in another way, but we chose not to. That is a choice we have made, and I have substantiated it. We are actually saying that I shall say that again in a moment, but I would like to bring it up, because Mrs Bikker is very much in need of it and I would like to accommodate her as much as possible, so that the way we do it is simpler and clearer. The rules of Title...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u37	I will now give Mrs Bikker the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u38	I didn't know the answers had to be so short, excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u39	I am sorry that Mr Verhoeven thinks that I am only voting in favour of concluding arguments. That's not the issue at all. It's just a simple question of how a law works. That's my point; not if he convinces me. My point is that we are responsible for good legislation here. At that point, his reasoning does not convince me. That's all, and then you shouldn't put other things on me. I don't like that much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u40	Okay, I won't do that anymore. I apologize for that. Then I'll leave it at that I've made a different choice than Mrs Bikker. I believe that it is indeed conclusive and consistent and would like to do so in this way. It is Mrs Bikker's right to think differently. We should not want to have a penal law with a lack of clarity about the scope for public debate. That is the reason for this proposal. There is now a lack of clarity, since the Supreme Court in 2005 did not make the grounds for the exclusion of Article 266 (2) applicable to Article 111, the article on majesty desecration. So that grounds for exclusion is also an important point that we are adding now, by putting things elsewhere. The Hoge Raad referred to the legal history of the creation of the Code of Criminal Law in 1881. That is understandable, but for the legislator this cannot be a reason to refrain from adapting the law to current legal developments. The respect for the King must not be of draconian maximum punishment for insult. However, there should be a proper balance between the freedom of expression and the right of everyone to protect their good honour and name. That's what the present bill wants to achieve. Unlike Mrs Andriessen and Mrs Bikker, I do not think it is possible to improve this point within the framework of Title II in a way that ensures sufficient clarity and legal certainty. I would point out that it is not just the question of reducing the maximum penalty that plays a role in this. Something should also be done about the possibility of expulsion from certain civil rights, as an additional punishment. In view of the importance of a proper balance with freedom of expression, the most important thing is that the texts of Article 265 on slander and the second paragraph of Article 266, the grounds for exclusion, should also be added to Article 111. This would therefore have been a major change to the current Article 111. We have therefore chosen, as I have just said, to apply Title XVI in full to insulting the King, his family members and the Heads of State or Government. That is much clearer and simpler. That can actually be done without any objection, even though those objections have been raised today. But in our view, there would not be very serious reasons not to do so. We must also be careful not to give royal dignity too much of a religious or magical dimension. This may fit in the nineteenth century, but at this time this is no longer helpful in shaping a modern, widely-behaved kingship. I hope I have answered Mrs Bikker's questions and points in the interruptions of just now, because that was literally about this. Mr. Chairman. Your Chamber rightly always pays a great deal of attention to the effectiveness and enforcement of legislation. Then it might be useful to consider what the profile of a possible lawbreaker might be. Would that be an SGP youth, who has learned at home that the King rules by the grace of God and whose dignity must be respected for that alone? Or should we rather think of a Republican anarchist who thinks he can achieve his goal by insulting the King? The history of this Chamber this morning, which has been made very explicit, teaches us that we have to take particular account of the last possibility. Then there is the question that I have already raised in the House of Representatives: what would make more impression on these offenders? A judge who says "you have compromised royal dignity" or a judge who says: you have not taken into account that the King is but a human being, with human feelings and possibly with the same right to respect as you and I, and you have compromised him in his human dignity. I think that the anarchist lawbreaker will think in the first instance: it was precisely my intention to undermine that royal dignity. But in the second case, perhaps he will consult himself again or there are no other means to make his point, for example by making the monarchy the target of his mockery.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u41	I listened very carefully to these last passages of the initiator's reply. I have the impression that he does make a very artificial distinction between the king's office and the king's as a person. As it happens, there is one head of state. That's the King in the Netherlands. That's what brings the person and the institute together. The article in the journal on constitutional law, to which he himself referred, clearly states that it was initially mainly the institute, but now both the institute and the person. It's just not possible to separate. The moment you try to artificially separate that, you hang a reasoning that actually doesn't hit a goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u42	I do not think there is so much artificial separation, because we also see very well in that person and office constantly, or permanently, as Mr Van Uden writes, coincide. Nevertheless, we think it is a good idea to take the step towards modernising and giving room for freedom of expression by making this change. So I do not think that the artificial separation that Mrs Bijleveld has termed was the reason that we came out on this road. We have come out on this road because we think it is important to increase the modernisation of freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u43	I first changed from "Van Bijsterveld" to "Bijsterveld," and now suddenly into "Bijsterveld." I listen to a lot, but maybe it's good to keep it right for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u44	Well, I've named Mr. Van Dijk Mr. Van Rooijen, so in that regard the confusion is optimal today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u45	I was mentioned this morning as Minister, but I apologise, because it must all remain correct, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u46	Will the real minister please rise? This is "Which of the three?" Pretty much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u47	Mrs Van Bijsterveld is absolutely right, I will look into it. It's just the nerves, then things go wrong. I'm coming to block two, friendly heads of state. So I shall now turn to the second part of my speech. In addition, the main effort is to modernise and prevent a chilling effect, because it is of course a similar movement that we make here. It concerns only other heads of state. The deletion of Articles 118 and 119 has the effect that insults to friendly heads of state, ministers and ambassadors at the time of their stay in the Netherlands are treated in the same way as when they reside in their home country or elsewhere in the world. That insult is dealt with on the basis of the ordinary offenses, as contained in Book 2, Article 16 and Articles 261 and beyond, and so are the normal maximum penalties. Now, in the event of deliberate insult to a friendly head of state, they are disproportionately high: another two years in prison. Mrs Andriessen and Mrs Strik have also said that, under Article 87a of the Code of Criminal Law, a foreign State is a friendly state quite quickly, as long as a country, Mr Nagel, spoke about this too, and is not involved with the Netherlands in an armed conflict. This implies that in such a country there can be gross human rights violations that can provoke violent emotions in the Netherlands, for example in the case of refugees from such a country who have received asylum from us. Then it is not appropriate to confront them with the risk of high penalties for insult. It must be possible to say something about this, even if the head of state of their country of birth visits our country. That's what happened. There were state visits from Russia in 2005, from Turkey in 2012 and from China in 2014, to name a few.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u48	Would it not have been an idea, since we are still modernising, to subject the definition of a friendly head of state to some modernisation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u49	I understand that question very well. I've just been thinking about that. There are all kinds of steps you could have taken. In dealing with this proposal, I am faced with people on the one hand who said "Mr Verhoeven, you should not have taken all those steps and you should have kept it a little more limited," and on the other hand people who said "Mr Verhoeven, you could have gone a little further." You belong to this last category. Under this initiative law, we have chosen to do what we do here. The discussion about the friendly head of state and the definition of a "befriend head of state" is really an international discussion, which the Netherlands cannot change by law alone. That is a limitation that we have also taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u50	But a friendly head of state, which may not be characterised as such in the Netherlands, can still apply to the Dutch court for the punishment of those who offend him. Then, of course, there are very strange situations, in which someone I mentioned Erdogan as an example, who gives us an example for everything that is ugly and dirty, so he has the opportunity to take someone who criticizes him to court. That is so crooked that it may be a bit far-reaching but requires even more modernisation than the proposal you are making.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u51	I understand the desire to carry out this modernisation too, but when we started doing this in 2015 and took all the steps that needed to be taken, we chose not to take advantage of this part now, even though it is not very easy to do so internationally. Perhaps other groups will be able to take the initiative. But this bill does not have that scope and has never had it. It has not been dealt with in this respect either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u52	Does the author not agree with me that, whatever foreign head of state is involved, insult should always remain punishable? It's about real insult and not about speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u53	This whole bill consists of the deletion of five articles: three on insulting the Majesty and two on insulting friendly heads of state. The existing articles in the area of insult simply remain in force, so that they remain punishable. Maybe it's okay to explain that. There are some people who say to me: nice, Mr Verhoeven, that you are going to table a bill that makes it possible to insult the King for a moment. But that's not the point at all. We just don't want another five-year sentence for insulting the King. But insult is never the norm, not even in the area of friendly heads of state. In this sense, there is always the question of the continued criminalisation of insults.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u54	Exactly. I did not immediately see Mr Verhoeven for that either, but he was a little too easy with me in the PVV's reasoning that certain heads of state could be excluded from the offence. I don't think that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u55	If I gave the impression that I went too far with the PVV, that was not my intention. I just thought it was good to address this point, because I think it belongs in an international discussion. In addition, it is still true that insult is never the norm. That's important. But thank you for your question, because now I have been able to explain it a little better. Mr. Chairman. For this reason, too, I mean what preceded the questions raised by the motion for a resolution, namely that there is no longer any reason to include these officials in the list of Article 267, which provides for an increase in the maximum prison sentence. It is true that this also affects the position of friendly Heads of State from neat states of law. Mrs Strik mentioned Mrs Merkel's example. Actually, I don't think that's too bad. Also, remember that Article 267 deals only with maximum prison sentences. The judge looks at the most appropriate punishment on a case-by-case basis. I will come and talk to you about this later. In reply to a question from Mr Ten Hoeve, I would like to point out that Article 166a of the Code of Criminal Procedure continues to exist. This provides for the diplomatic submission of a complaint for insulting a friendly head of state, for example by handing over a written document to our ambassador in the country concerned. So that road, too, just stays in place. We never wanted to touch that either. Mr Nagel asked whether the concept of "head of state" should not have been interpreted more contemporaryly. Mr Dercksen of the PVV has also asked a question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u56	With ck.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u57	Yeah, I talked it out with K. I'm sorry about that. Mr Dercksen has just asked a question about this. I have already said that this is not the objective of the proposal before us. We have good diplomatic relations with countries which, to put it mildly, do not share all our values and standards. That is, by definition, the case. If in such a country a head of state is offended by an expression made in the Netherlands, it fits in with the diplomatic relationship to be able to lodge a complaint in that way. So much for the block on friendly heads of state.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u58	Mrs. Strik, you're in the wings, but you want to ask a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u59	I was wondering if Mr Verhoeven would still deal with my question about dropping the complaint requirement, so I waited carefully. But now that the block is complete, I can ask that question. I have argued that I do not think that the deletion of the complaint requirement by friendly Heads of State is very well founded. I understand very well that the penalty ceiling does not necessarily have to be higher than that of others, but I think it is quite different that a friendly head of state who is visiting here is actually obliged to file a complaint himself before considering whether there is a need for prosecution or not. In this context, I would find it more logical that there should be equal treatment with the head of state. The Council of State has also given consideration to this and indicated that a country actually has a duty, not so much an international duty, to protect a head of state who is visiting here in such a way that it should also be possible to prosecute, to ensure that it is conducted in an orderly manner and to show that you are taking good care of international relations. This does not appear to be the case if a person has to file a complaint himself if he is thrown at his head by certain insults which, if it were to happen with his own head of state, would lead to persecution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u60	I will come back to the complaint requirement. I think the answer to your question lies in that too. If that is not the case, I will come back to it, because I think this is an appropriate point. But I do not want to anticipate the answer; it has already happened twice that a question preceded my answer. So if it's all right with you, I'll come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u61	I thought you were done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u62	That's right, but I've classified this part of the complaint requirement itself. But that's a matter of categories, let's just say. I'm gonna go to the sentence now, and then I'm gonna finish with the complaint requirement. Then you know, Mr President, that I am already very upset, as far as you are concerned. Mr. Chairman. So I come now to the subject of increased penalties, Article 267. This provides for an increase in the maximum term of imprisonment for insulting the King, his wife, the presumed heir and his wife or a regent, an official in office, a public body or a public institution. The meaning of Article 267 is limited. After all, it only concerns maximum prison time. It increases it from three to four months. But there really has to be a lot going on before insulting is imposed on a prison sentence at all. The Council of Europe has even recommended that prison sentences for insults should be abolished altogether. Mrs. Strik mentioned that, too. Article 267 does, however, signal that the legislator considers insulting the King and other servants of the public cause to be more serious than insulting any citizen. In response to Mrs Strik's question, ministerial responsibility also plays a role. This signal may also lead to higher penalties other than prison sentences, such as fines or community service penalties, when applying Article 266. Mr. Chairman. In practice, we can already see that the scope provided by Article 266 for imposing higher penalties can also be used separately from Article 267, for example in the case of insulting aid workers, such as ambulance workers and firefighters. Mr Schouwenaar asked whether employees of private companies carrying out public tasks were also covered by the broad concept of "official" in Article 84 of the Code of Criminal Law. They are therefore employees of private companies in the same sectors, for example in the field of ambulance or fire support in public space. That can be done by officials within the meaning of that article, and they can also be covered by Article 267, but that is not always the case. Under Article 84 of the Criminal Code, the term "official" covers not only public servants who, in the normal use of speech, are called officials, but also directors, judges, members of the armed forces, and, as a result of case law, also members of the Supreme Court. This also applies to "those appointed under the supervision and responsibility of the public authorities in a position to which public character cannot be denied'. This quote is the answer to Mr Schouwenaar's question. So I'm actually answering that question with "yes." This point has also been explicitly raised in the House of Representatives. There was a lot of confusion about it and there were also many organisations that were concerned because they thought that this would remove a certain additional category of protection from those people. That was never really the case, but there was a lot of confusion about it. It has been clarified, and I hope that it has now been clarified by the answer to Mr Schouwenaar's question. So it's not like a certain category of people working in public service or under government supervision is suddenly no longer protected. This definition has limitations, so that not all employees of private companies carrying out public tasks can be included, but that's okay. After all, I said "al." That is in addition to the above. Even without Article 267, there is room for more severe penalties in the application of Article 266 as the task of the offending party gives rise to this, and that is what is happening in practice. Mr. Chairman. There is one point in the legislative proposal that limits the current definition of the term "official" in relation to the current provision. This is about representatives of the people, so you and I. Of course, a number of things have been said about this in the House of Representatives. People's representatives are now excluded from the possibility of increased penalties. That is what we have done, and I say this in response to Mrs Andriessen's questions, because it was wrong that, in an exchange of views between a people's representative and a electorate, the electorate who then insults the people's representative should be punished more severely than the people's representative who insults the voters. This was considered more important by the House of Representatives than treating an insult to a public body or an organ thereof equally, and to the individual who is a member of that representative body. In this sense, therefore, a balance has been reached and we have chosen to leave the representatives of the people out of it. Mrs Andriessen and Mrs Strik asked a question about the removal of public authority from the list of public bodies and public institutions. And Mrs Andriessen also asked for an example of a conviction for insulting public authority. For example, there is a judgment of the court of The Hague of 23 January 2009 in which it was an insult to the Dutch police. By the way, there are more examples to be found, but they are older than 2009. That judgment of the Hague Court also raised the question of whether the offender might be able to rely on the grounds of exclusion of the sentence of Article 266.2. That was not the case because he explicitly stated that he did not wish to contribute to any public debate. But "public authority" is a much broader and more abstract concept. What could be an insult to all of them is actually quite unclear. You can pretty quickly say it's "public authority" offended. That can have an unacceptable chinning effect. Therefore, in dictatorships, it is often a popular means of keeping the opposition under control. That is why we have chosen to remove 'public authority' from that article, and not public bodies and public institutions. For the subject of this bill, it is still important that the monarchy cannot be regarded as an institution within the meaning of Article 267. The monarchy is a state form with the most important feature of the succession. It has advantages and disadvantages compared to other forms of state, which also have their own advantages and disadvantages, which goes beyond this bill. But the discussion on this must be possible in any case in a democratic rule of law, and it must be possible to do so without prejudice to honour and good name being called into question. There we would go far beyond its normal meaning. Mr. Chairman. I come to the complaint requirement, governed by Article 269. I would like to make a comment on that. In this area, the legislative proposal does not, of course, make any material changes. The main rule is that insult is only prosecuted after a complaint. As an exception, the Public Prosecutor may of his own motion prosecute any of the persons or institutions referred to in Article 267. That means that both the King and some of his family members, as well as the officials, remain the situation as it is today. Then there is no complaint requirement and the D.A. can prosecute of its own motion. Mrs Bikker asked if I meant to say that the King should be known in the deliberations of the Public Prosecutor whether to prosecute or not, because I also said that I would prefer not to be prosecuted by the Public Prosecutor on my own initiative against the King's wishes. Mrs Bikker made that suggestion. As she means, it's not settled in the bill. I didn't want to do that either. I can only imagine that the Public Prosecutor's Office is consulting with the Minister of Justice and Security on these kinds of considerations, and that he, in turn, is in some way consulting within the government. But maybe I'm totally wrong, too. I don't know, and maybe this kind of consultation isn't happening at all. So be it. But I wouldn't think it wrong if that meeting were to take place. That's actually what I think. So I don't know if it's happening. The complaint requirement also does not apply in the case of an insult to a representative of the people. So even in the case of insulting a people's representative, the prosecution can still be prosecuted of its own motion. But then there is no increase in maximum prison time, as I have just said. However, pursuant to Article 269, in such a case, the Public Prosecutor's Office remains competent to prosecute on his own initiative. Mr Schouwenaar asked me to go into that further. It is conceivable that, in a specific case, the Public Prosecutor would consider that the general interest of upholding the status of representatives of the people must outweigh the private interest of an offended representative of the people who wants to leave the matter to rest. If, therefore, a representative of the people himself thinks that he is so offended, but does not want to complain about it, then it may be that the public prosecutor thinks that it is necessary, because of the public interest, to prosecute him. So we leave that possibility open. I do not think it will happen soon, but there can also be more to it than insults, such as threats or threats of violence. I can imagine that the prosecution would like to charge all criminal offences and not make an exception to the insult. So you get more of an accumulation of a number of different things.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u63	The background to my question was that, on the one hand, you grant the D.A. that authority, or leave it open, but on the other hand, it says: it's a little nolesvolens, because we prefer not to. That is also what the authors of the amendment are doing. That sounded a little strange to me. Either you take care of it or you don't take care of it. If you want it badly, you'll take care of it, and if you don't want it badly, you won't take care of it. You shouldn't take back with one hand what you gave with the other hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u64	No. My general position at the moment is that I am defending a bill that has been submitted by the Lower House here, to the Upper House, and that I fully support the outcome of the treatment in the Lower House. On this point, however, there are a number of amendments which have led to an addition. I think it is perfectly justifiable that we should say on the one hand that the representative of the people should not be extra protected from insult by a citizen, by giving him a higher possibility of punishment and not giving it to the citizen, because then you will get distortion in the debate. On the other hand, however, I think it is quite justifiable to maintain the complaint requirement, because the public prosecutor will then be able to make the decision to say in general terms that there is a need to prosecute, even if the public representative himself does not wish to do so. Mr Schouwenaar says it a little more clearly, but that is indeed a consideration. There are several considerations made at several moments and together form the search for balance. I can very well imagine that there is criticism of every consideration I make. But it is the search for the balance between modernisation on the one hand and protection on the other. And this is the result of that assessment. I have to say to Mrs Strik: I remember her question, but it is not in my answer here. I think her question was summarised as to whether a friendly head of state should not file a complaint. I shall come back to that in the second term. Or haven't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u65	It could be different. So perhaps you can come back to that at the end of your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u66	Okay, I'll try. Perhaps then the Minister will be able to give his answer and I can look into that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u67	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u68	It's a point I can be pretty clear about. But I want to address it right. So I'd like to check it out and then I'll just come back to it. In my view, it is not the most fundamental part of this law, but rather a practical point. But we do want to clarify it. If that's okay...?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u69	Yeah, that's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u70	Mr. Chairman. Then I'm heading for a lockdown. I'm getting to the piece of "other and shut down." But there are still a number of points, because a number of obvious points have been raised. There is also the point that we started with this afternoon. First of all, I come to Mr Van Dijk's questions. He's asked me a number of questions. The first question he raised was whether I had considered withdrawing the bill after the proceedings in the House of Representatives. My answer to that is no. I didn't consider that. I have already noted that I have no difficulty defending the bill as it is now. It has been amended in the House of Representatives, but I am standing here on behalf of the House of Representatives to deal with this bill. There have been amendments to the original initiative, but this has led to the legislative proposal that is now before us and which I am happy to defend with conviction. That's why I didn't rescind it. For example, Mrs Strik pointed to the increase in penalties for insulting political directors and public bodies. In my opinion, this bill still contributes to the right balance between freedom of expression on the one hand and the right of everyone to protect their good name, honour and human dignity on the other. Then Mr Van Dijk asked me to quote him: 'how high this bill, if it were to be brought up to law, would be on my list of good works, on which I would be addressing any grandchildren'. I cannot tell Mr Van Dijk that. However, I can tell him that I teach my children that criticism is cleansing and valuable, especially from wise people or from SGPs in campaign time, and that the result often lasts longer than the playing style. So the way I look back at this later will depend heavily on the outcome of the vote next week. Of course, I hope you will be happy and heartfelt to help me with that. I then see a difference in the approach of this bill between Mr Van Dijk and Mrs Bikker. Mr Van Dijk says: the bill is neither meat nor fish. That's what he said this morning. Mrs Bikker says it's a large-scale renovation. And then there was someone who said that a large-scale renovation started, but that it wasn't finished. Oh, that was Mrs. Bikker. But it is not consistent in that, because it also argues that it is not easier to charge the King with insult than it is to charge Title XVI with Article 111 of the Treaty. And it doubts whether the penalties would have been lower in the last ten years if the proposal had already been there. Those were some of her questions. Mrs Bikker said to me at one point: "Yes, Mr Verhoeven, if this proposal had already been made, would it have led to lower penalties?" I have already told Mrs Bikker that lower penalties or too high penalties were not the reason for submitting this proposal. Nevertheless, I wanted to see if I could answer that question. But in all honesty, of course, I cannot look back through a forward view mirror. You can't look at the past on the basis of a changed future. At least I can't do that, because then you'll get a hypothetical situation. The question was also hypothetical. In fact, I can say that I did not start for nothing by saying that this bill is not intended to correct the penalties applied by the Dutch courts. I find it difficult to answer this question. But if you reason according to my reasoning, then the answer to the question does not matter very much, because it was not the reason to submit this law. It might sound a little abstract.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u71	Yeah, and there's some things I've been saying being thrown a little bit together and that's gonna give you a different outcome. Let's just say it's pasta sauce instead of tomato soup. I did say it was a large-scale renovation. But this leads to little, namely to a reduction in the maximum sentence. In that sense, I can very well follow Mr Van Dijk's view that the bill is neither meat nor fish. Because there's a lot you can do about a house, but you don't see much of it in the end. I'm sure I can follow that. But then we'll go back. The author says that I was not concerned with lowering the maximum penalty. But he himself, in all his replies and afterwards, shows that European case law shows that the current Dutch Article 111 may be too firm in that maximum sentence and that it is out of line with that in other European countries. So I'm not following the initiator myself right now. He says it's not a goal to bring down that maximum sentence. He says: it is a goal to follow European case law. In his view, however, this European case-law puts the finger on the excessive maximum penalty.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u72	Mrs Bikker said that sometimes during a major renovation you do not see that there has been a large-scale renovation. I can imagine that, for example, you would have strengthened the foundation of something. You don't see that right away. That's right. I have indicated that the main reason for this bill is to introduce a modernisation that is in line with social change. It has been said by this Chamber that Article 10 of the ECHR is a correction or a brake on excessive penalties. And from that, I said that brake is not enough, but that you have to anchor it in your own legislation, as modernisation. Mr Van Dijk says: it is neither meat nor fish. But I think what we're doing is a big change. The maximum penalty for insulting the Majesty is currently five years, which goes to four months. It is a modernisation that we need in a broader context and which I have explained. Freedom of expression must be given better scope than Article 111 to 113.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u73	May I ask the author of the initiative proposal for clarification on this point? If the ordinary offenses become applicable, even in the case of insulting the King, will Article 262 of the Criminal Code not also apply? There is a maximum sentence of two years in the case of the King or other officials. So that can be increased to two years and eight months. So for the most serious insults, according to his proposal, the maximum penalty goes back from five years to two years and eight months. Or am I wrong about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u74	I cannot see that because I do not remember Article 262. But also this is something that I naturally like to look up without any objection and which I would like to comment on. But I have a feeling that this question is going beyond the scope of this bill anyway. But I'll look it up. That's not a point to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u75	Mr Köhler's comment seems to me to be justified, but this is something that goes beyond normal insult to defamation or defamation. Isn't that a difference?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u76	There's a difference between insult, defamation and slander. Mr Köhler has put the question in such a way that I cannot see it at the moment. I've learned that you'd better look it up first and answer quietly than hit it. So I choose the first and not the last. I say to Mr Ten Hoeve of OSF that he will undoubtedly be right on that point, but that does not mean that Mr Köhler's conclusion may or may not be correct, in my view. So I'll come back to that as well. Mr. Chairman. I have one of my final points: the possibilities for the prosecution of the public prosecutors of their own motion do not change anything. Insulting the King remains a criminal offence. I do not think that changing the place in the Code of Criminal Law where it is regulated is the most important thing. That brings me to Mrs Strik and Mrs Bikker's question, an important point that has now been raised. That point actually consists of several points. First of all, it was about why I did not consult more widely, for example in the case law, mayors, administrative colleges of the BES islands, the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office. I have said that I see it as a targeted and limited renovation, which means that there is no need for a more extensive consultation than in the House of Representatives. They just treated it there and thought it was time to treat it; that's why it's here now. Then on the other point, concerning Curaçao, Aruba and Saint Martin, the other overseas countries of our Kingdom. This is covered by the Statute and by Article 39. The question is therefore why we did not choose to ask for a view by Curaçao, Aruba and Saint Martin under Article 39 (2) of the Statute for the Kingdom. Well, this is a subject that we say should be so that it happens more often that the different rules within the Kingdom are slightly different. More than a little bit different, that is the explanation we are giving to it, because it is mainly about the place where something is arranged. So we do not think it is significant enough. The basis for which we choose is that some differences between the countries of our Kingdom must be possible. Furthermore, this point was not raised by the Advisory Section of the Council of State, so that it did not play any role in the Second Chamber nor was it mentioned by the Minister of Justice and Security, who advised me in the Second Chamber. As a result, I believe that this legislative proposal did not violate the Statute. That's my weight. But I am also curious whether the Minister for Justice and Security will soon be able to shed an additional and perhaps even sharper or warmer light on his department's practice in this area. My brief answer, my political weighting, you cannot always argue completely, because sometimes you also disagree about things... is that it is not radical enough to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u77	I give the floor to Mrs Bikker. In the meantime, however, I must tell you that we are also working on the rostrum. We have just consulted a few articles of the Statute on the position of the King and the Head of State. Perhaps you will have a moment to read through it, because it might give you a slightly different view of the whole. Mrs. Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u78	That's what you say as chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u79	Yeah, I can say that as chairman, can't I? I have this letter here, and we must take care to keep an eye on the Constitution, but also on the Statute, certainly. Mrs. Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u80	We have agreed to maintain the Statute with each other. That, too, is in our promise. I ask the author two things. One sees the word "striking." If we look at the Statute and what is agreed in it about the King and the royal power that the King exercises over the various countries, then you could also say at this moment: oops, forget, am I sorry? But it is about the head of state and about unity for the different countries, which does affect this bill. If you look at Article 39 (1), which is also mentioned in this letter, you will see that it states that we are striving for the same criminal regime in the various countries of the Kingdom. That's the very first ambition. So you have to relate to those countries, that's one. And two: apart from that, whether or not the petitioner thinks so, whether he thinks it is political or legal, the fact is that the Minister responsible for Saint Martin indicates that he wants to be consulted on this matter. A fact is that the treatment is still ongoing, so that is still possible. I believe that such a consultation will take six weeks and that the applicant will have all the answers from the various countries. What would be against this if the countries indicated that they were going to do so? Then we are sure that we have fully implemented Article 39 (2) of the Statute. Then the petitioner will sleep even better and tell his grandchildren how he fought this bill in unity within the Kingdom?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u81	About my sleep I can only say that the treatment here will not affect it, although I tried to sleep well to bring the treatment here to a successful conclusion. But that was last night and not next night. Thank you for your peer concern on this point, which I very much appreciate. Look, I get that Mrs. Bikker feels like I'm saying, "Oops, I forgot, let's just ask." But that's not the lecture I have. I find it very interesting that we are now running into this point and I absolutely want to look into it, and I certainly will not be so prepared that I do not want to make any movement that is never sensible in the Senate, but my weighting at this point is that I do not think it is significant. We can then have a discussion about this and the President says that this is about the Head of State, which I will have to look at.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u82	No, I said read what the Statute says about the head of state.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u83	I will certainly read that Statute again, because that is a very good suggestion. But then I have to weigh that up after reading, and then I have to come back with that. Then we can see how we deal with that. But now to say "oops, I forgot, and that's why I'm gonna do it," I think it's a little too soon. I am also curious about what the Minister of Justice says in the wider application of this point, what has happened in the past in all kinds of different legislative proposals. But I do take this point seriously, so I really want to take a quiet look at it. I hope you will allow me to do so; if necessary we will have a second deadline. Because it is obviously so important that I think we should take a moment, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u84	I am nevertheless impressed by what Mr Verhoeven was talking about at the beginning, namely that it takes a lot of energy to make an initiative legislative proposal. We complimented him for that, too. But then it seems to me that it's something that he thinks is important and that he really wants to achieve something with. It is interesting that he wants to weaken the far-reaching nature of it by saying: this change is not that big. It can, of course, be both, and that will probably be Mr Verhoeven's reading. But apart from that, of course, it requires a high level of empathy to fill in the interpretation of the concept of "majority" for others as well. This is very much the case in paragraph 2: in the case of far-reaching proposals, consultation will take place, as is the case for both sides. In any case, would it not be logical to ask the other countries whether they consider it not so far-reaching that the Statute would not apply to it? For my group, it is very much about the process: we have to treat each other properly. It is indeed the head of state of all of us, so I think it is only logical that we should observe this kind of rule, even though it would be necessary to apply exactly the same rules. But at the very least consultation is very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u85	In all openness and honesty, in response to these two points: there has been very different talk in this Chamber about the far-reachingness of this proposal, and also the weighting was very different. I myself, of course, am a very modest person, who will never see this proposal as very far-reaching, because I believe that it involves a number of articles with very hard work, which leads to a change that leads to a small difference between the other countries in our Kingdom, with which I find it over-sighted. My feeling is that there will be several examples to be found, so I do not know for sure where there has been the same course of action and there has not been any point of view asked by the other three countries. That doesn't have to matter, because it's about now. I think that is a valid point. I'd like to see what the Minister of Justice and Security thinks. I'd like to look into other cases where this has played. I do not want to give the feeling that I have missed something here, because it has not been discussed at any time so far. It's coming up today, so I think we should take a quiet look at it. I can really hear what you're saying to Mrs. Strik and Mrs. Bikker. I also take it very seriously, but I also see a number of reasons for not saying too quickly: well, then we have to consult now, that takes six weeks and then everything went well again. You also sometimes make a choice about whether or not to consult. In the House of Representatives I have been asked to keep my mouth shut again, chairman of the House of Representatives, whether I should have consulted the public prosecutor more extensively. That was a heartfelt wish from the CDA. They've been asking for it for a long time, through all sorts of procedures. We finally decided that it was not necessary and that we could move on. I'm not saying it's not necessary, but you do make choices in this respect. I want to make that choice substantiated. So I'm not gonna give up right now, I'll say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u86	I get that. Mr. Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u87	Mr Verhoeven is already giving a lot of reflections from the loose wrist. I think that's very good. I missed one, if I'm not mistaken. However we all appreciate it, there is simply now a request from a country, St.Maarten, which very much wants to be heard. Would you like to reflect on that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u88	Yes. For me, this procedure and this letter are new. There is now a letter with a stamp and a signature on it with an official request. My gut says the following. On the one hand, you can say that you have to take such a request seriously. In the other respect you can also in many other ways show respect to other countries in the Kingdom, for example by saying: we think you are wise enough to deal with the difference that is now emerging in a certain way. Why should it necessarily be a major problem, especially since it really does not lead to urgent situations in practice? So you can think very differently about this. My feeling is that it is very sustainable not to do it and to give a reaction that also gives a lot of respect to Saint Martin without doing exactly what they ask. If you only do what someone else asks for as a form of respect, then respect is a very narrow concept. We started today with the concept of "respect for the King." I may not have done what the King asks of me in this respect, but I do have a great deal of respect for him. I therefore believe that several answers are possible within the framework of respect. I'd like to look into that. I think this is a novel. I find that there is some unrest at this point, so we all need to get to work on this and bring it to a successful conclusion. I'd like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u89	Mr. Van Dijk, you have one interruption with Mr. Verhoeven. Then I would like to close this point at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u90	We're going to have a very philosophical debate. It's gonna come back, I can feel it. This is a very special reasoning. I don't know if that's typical of D66. You want to pay particular respect to this country by saying that we are reacting negatively to your request. That's very special. I await further discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u91	Very briefly. Shortly down the bend, it is true what has been said. I think it is possible and conceivable that we should state in a well-founded, proper and very respectful manner why we are not moving on to the point of view. It's okay to get into the Acts. I find that extremely respectful in potential. Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u92	We are talking about this particular case. More important to me than this particular case is the fact that we have agreed that, in general, we would always strive for consistency between the laws of the countries and of the Netherlands. That, in my opinion, draws it to a slightly higher level than just this point. The author is perhaps right that the differences with what is now in the legislation are not so profound that everything changes. But concordance is a value in itself that we can pay attention to. That is what the author is right about, I think, sometimes too little. I'm sure there's more examples that haven't been taken into account. But we're running into it now. It has a high value to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u93	Finally, this letter came today. We will have to deal with that. We will have to relate to that. Whatever road we find, I am in any case very happy to deal with Saint Martin and this signal in a respectful manner. As far as I am concerned, we will try to find the answer to that today, hopefully with the pleasure of this Chamber. Perhaps then we will achieve a result that will enable us to deal with cases of this kind in a better way in the future. I am also curious about the past of this process in many other legal cases. That doesn't really matter now, because we need to solve it now. I would like to make my final point, if I may.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u94	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u95	After all, Mrs Strik also asked me how I see in general the criminalisation of single insults. Its purpose is no different from many other criminal acts, namely to prevent self-direction. In case of insult, there is an important limitation. The D.A. is only going to take action after a complaint, apart from the exceptions we have talked about. If there is no complaint, there is no risk of self-direction. Mediation can, of course, also be a means of preventing the use of criminal law. That is all in a broader sense and goes beyond this bill. The same applies to civil law. That is rather expensive and therefore something more companies and mediated individuals. Her question, whether I consider the bill to be sufficient to prevent a chilling effect in relation to the criminalisation of insults, I answer with caution at the moment. I would have preferred to have made prison sentences for insults completely impossible. I'd like so much. Then the bill would have been much wider in scope. Then we wouldn't be here today. At the moment, I wanted to keep it smaller, more limited and therefore more focused. That actually applies to all the answers to questions where your Chamber says: couldn't you have gone a little further? Despite this, there are also Members of your Chamber who say: you have gone rather far. There's a difference of opinion on that. We will not change that today either. However, I have tried to justify in my reply, at least on the basis of historical arguments, why I have chosen this path. I hope it will please your President-in-Office. I have three points for later, one way or another. That's what I'm gonna do right now. One: Head of State, Mrs. Strik. Two: Mr Köhler's point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u96	262 Criminal law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u97	262 Criminal law. For you, it's all cut cake. For me, of course, it is very different, Mr President. And then, of course, the point of Article 39 (2) and how to deal with it. So I will come back to that after the Minister of Justice and Security has spoken. If I need more time, I'll give you that, because we don't want me to mess it up, of course, but that it happens in an orderly manner. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u98	Thank you, Mr Verhoeven. I give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u99	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. I actually only realized half an hour ago that I'm wearing a rather orange tinted tie today. I have to tell you, I wasn't dressing up in a freudian sense this morning. It won't take long. I will be speaking on behalf of the cabinet, but first I would like to answer the questions raised to the government by the political groups. I shall begin with the questions about insult, then the questions about the friendly head of state and then some more general questions. In any case, I would like to echo the thanks that have been expressed and would also like to express my sincere thanks to the officials of the department who are always very energetic and loyal in their efforts to come up with such an initiative legislative proposal. That too may be said. Mr. Chairman. I'll start at the point of insulting the King. Mrs Bikker asked whether those provisions could not be better maintained in Title II on royal dignity. I think she's right that the royal dignity means more than the physical safety of our King. The honor and good name are also included. For this reason, I shall come back to this point at the end of the cabinet position.......................................................................................................................................................... This can be achieved in several ways. The initiator has chosen to do it in such a way that insulting the King is punishable by the insulting articles, but in doing so, and that is important to the Cabinet, is done justice to that particular position by providing for a penalty increase in the offense of the King and the King to exclude from the complaint requirement. With this initiative proposal, the royal dignity remains protected in all its aspects, and the King's special and neutral position in our constitutional monarchy remains as it is. Members Bikker, Van Bijsterveld and Van Dijk have asked a number of questions about the abdicated King. It is up to the initiator to explain why the abdicated King is not included in Article 267. I can state why the abdicated King is not currently subject to special protection under Article 112 of the Code of Criminal Law, because the abdicated King is not currently mentioned in Article 112 of the Code of Criminal Law either. That was a very conscious choice at the time. In 1981, the circle of persons included in Article 112 of the Criminal Code was reduced. At that time, a more limited circle was deliberately chosen. The reason for this was that special criminal protection was considered desirable only for the King and a small circle of persons who were very closely involved in the performance of the royal function. It is then next to the King himself, the suspected successor of the King, the husband of the King and of the heir to the throne, and the regent. This circle also fits in with the circle of persons as mentioned in the Code of Civil Procedure and the Code of Criminal Procedure. This does not mean that other members of the Royal House, such as the abdicated King, are not protected from insult, but insulting them is punishable by offense. So much for the abdicated king. Several questions have been asked about the friendly head of state. I will start with Mr Dercksen's question when someone is a 'head of state'.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u100	There is a question from Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u101	It was pretty quick. I understand what the Minister is saying, but at the same time it means something. I just mentioned the example of Princess Beatrix. She's still very active for the Royal House. You can imagine that if she is very offended, it also radiates on royal dignity and everything. So the historical background you are describing is correct, but is it desirable? Is this not too limited a design of the special protection of royal dignity and the Royal House? Can you still reflect on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u102	The government is in line with how that circle was brought back in 1981 and says: if you bring that circle back, then of course you must be consistent in that, and then you focus on a very small group in the particular offense. I just described it. Those are the people who stand directly with the King. The regent is a good example of that. That means that also for an abdicated King it no longer belongs to that circle.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u103	Clear. I will come back to that in the second term. In abstracto that is quite understandable, but that simply means that Princess Beatrix falls outside that circle, while she is still so intertwined with doing and leaving the Royal House. Then you wonder if the circle isn't too scary after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u104	Of course, there are two things involved. Firstly, I think that the former head of state for the subjects will always be someone with whom they feel a special connection. That's one side of the story. The other side of the story is that we have said precisely for those special regulations in our legislation: we keep that very special circle very conscious as it is, to put it very clearly. Then you have to be consistent in that, just to put that right. However, like Mr Van Dijk, I have a very great respect for our former queen. In that respect, I think we are quite right on the same lines. I would have stayed with the question of Mr Dercksen when someone is a "befriend of the head of state." In this case, I would like to answer that question formally and legally and not in a philosophical sense. A friendly head of state is the head of a government of a friendly state. Mrs Andriessen of D66 has already pointed out that the term 'friendly state' is defined in Article 87a of the Code of Criminal Law. This is true when there is no armed conflict with a state. It is not, therefore, a question of whether there really are friendly relations between themselves. The initiative proposal means that the special protection for friendly Heads of State against insult will lapse. Nor did the initiator provide for a penalty increase for the insult of a befriended head of state, or an exception to the complaint requirement. Then I come to Mr Nagel's question of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u105	Mr. Dercksen first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u106	I won't answer it yet, because I see...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u107	No. Mr. Dercksen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u108	I actually want to ask you the same question as I asked Mr Verhoeven. Is it not time to modernise the definition of a "befriended head of state"? The definition now is "as long as they don't throw bombs on us, it's our friend," and that may not be the situation today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u109	As I said at the beginning, I do not want to go into that philosophically, because then, of course, you get the question: does the fact that you are all a member of the United Nations not mean that you are one large international community and that each country falls within the definition of "befriended head of state"? That's one way to fly it. Or should you say: no, we should rather look for it in the context of trading nations or something like that? Anything's possible. Perhaps we can have that discussion again in the House of Representatives in the future, if there is an initiator, but that is not in this bill. Then I come to Mr Nagel's question of 50PLUS whether we should start to define the term 'head of state' differently. The definition therefore no longer has any meaning for the offence. It still has significance for other criminal offences, such as an attack on the life of a friendly head of state. Through you, I say a little bit to Mr Dercksen that I believe that if we know that, we will also say to each other that at least it is wise to choose a rather broad definition. Mr Ten Hoeve of the Independent Senate Group asked what a foreign head of state should do after the entry into force of the initiative proposal if he was offended. Let me put it this way: I certainly do not want to go into what such a person should do, but I would like to say more in a general sense what our law offers. Pursuant to Article 166a of the Code of Criminal Procedure, a foreign Head of State may lodge a complaint by diplomatic means. That is already the way to go. In any event, the current criminalisation of Article 118 of the Criminal Code, the current rules for insult, is limited to friendly Heads of State residing in the Netherlands. Mrs Andriessen asked whether an extradition request for an insult to a friendly head of state would in future be impossible if the separate criminalisation of an insult to a friendly head of state in Articles 118 and 119 of the Code of Criminal Law were to lapse. The proposal for an own-initiative act abolishes special protection. Anyway, insult remains, of course, punishable in general terms. Whether he's a friendly head of state or whatever, you can insult someone like that. Extradition shall be possible only in the case of offences which are punishable by a prison sentence of one year or more, provided that the possibility of extradition is governed by Treaty law, and cumulatively, to the extent that such offence is also punishable in the country where it was committed. This means, therefore, that for the offences insult and defamation cannot be extradited, due to a too low legal penalty limit of three months or six months respectively. Extradition for the crime slander is possible. That crime has a maximum sentence of two years in prison. Let me now turn to the more general questions relating to the own-initiative proposal. Mrs Strik asked in general terms about the criminalisation of insults whether it is necessary to make an offence punishable. Yes, this minister thinks so. Everyone deserves respect for his honor and good name. That is the importance of the criminalisation of insults. That is not only a task for the citizens themselves, but also for the public authorities. The task of the government is not only to protect the physical integrity of citizens, but also to protect the moral integrity of citizens against sexual assault and their degradation by others. Mrs. Strik asked what we're doing to prevent that chilling effect. I would like to point out that, of course, I fully agree with her that freedom of expression is a great asset. The expression of criticism should be possible, but criticism is something other than insulting. Criticism can be expressed without insulting. We must prevent people from being constrained by criticism, and therefore a prudent policy of persecution is being followed. I liked the fact that some of you, when I came in, was that Mrs Andriessen referred to the sixties when people had to say: no, I said "Johnson, miller" instead of "Johnson, killer." To stay with the Americans for a while: we have come a long way. That's not how our society works anymore. Since I was a minister, I have actually been able to see that the standards are much wider with regard to the freedom of expression that is directed at me. I think that, in my case, it may not be a good thing in general. There's a lot of room for criticism. Although it is the credit of my colleague, Mr Dekker, I would like to stand before our judiciary, which has a very sensible and prudent review policy under Article 10 of the ECHR. In doing so, the judge also takes it into account when the rulings are made in the context of a public debate, which is, of course, something different than simply insulting someone. Mrs Bikker raised the issue of the Statute. I thought: let me save that point for the last time and get to it before I get to the cabinet position. She asked whether the governments of those countries, Curaçao, Aruba and Saint Martin, should not have been consulted. Article 39 (2) of the Staff Regulations provides that a proposal for a substantial amendment of the legislation referred to in paragraph 1 may not be submitted to the representative body or examined by the representative body before the governments in the other countries have been given the opportunity to express their views on the matter. The phrase "or dealt with by the representative body" refers to own-initiative proposals and implies that an initiative should be taken from the Lower House itself to ask the governments of other countries what they think of a radical change. It is therefore up to the initiator to assess whether there has been a major change and whether, for this reason, consultation of the other countries was appropriate. It is then up to the House of Representatives to decide. The government must assume that the House of Representatives did not consider that there was such a radical change. But that is, once again, up to the initiator. I would like to say, however, that is more for the legal discourse that I have studied the Statute well. We must be aware that this is contained in Article 39 and relates to the amendment of legislation not being the Constitution that is in another part of the Treaty in one of the countries on which it is said: if you change that substantially, you must follow that procedure. Then it is up to the petitioner and the House of Representatives to determine whether they consider this to be a major change in criminal law, because that is what this is about. I'm really gonna say that for the legal discourse. It is not a question of whether the King has a position in the Constitution. We don't have to disagree on that. It is a question of whether we believe that this bill in the Code of Criminal Law will bring about a radical change.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u110	I think we have all concluded that that is the issue. It has been said here by a number of people: it may well be profound because it is the head of state of all countries. The far-reachingness is partly also in the significant reduction in the threat of punishment. I would very much like to have an interpretation of the government as a member of the Supreme Court, as is usually the case. In the case of own-initiative proposals, you want an opinion and an interpretation and use the government's knowledge to assess this bill. Of course, this is part of it. The Minister says it's up to the House of Representatives. Of course, it's just as well for the First Chamber to want such advice. That is why we want to know from the Minister how he looks at this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u111	I would point out that you need to zoom in on Article 39 (2) of the Statute. It states that if there is a substantial change of laws or codes specifically referred to in paragraph 1, that procedure must be followed. That's one thing, period. That takes a moment off the subject. It is a question of whether the amendment is substantial. Then you will come to the question of whether you think this is a major change to the Code of Criminal Law. I will get to the cabinet's position on this bill in a moment, but I have already had it mentioned, and I will say it out loud later, at least because the complaint requirement is still maintained here and is still provided for an increase in the king's insult, the government can agree to the bill as it is. Then it is up to both Chambers, however annoying, to indicate whether they feel that there has been a major change. The House of Representatives apparently did not find that out, but the government cannot take part in the judgment of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u112	The Minister has now given a substantive appreciation of the bill. Maybe he'll come back to that a little bit later. My question was how the government interprets the concept of far-reachingness in the light of the Statute and the consistency required between the laws of the various countries within the Kingdom. Isn't the government also in a position with regard to the Statute? Perhaps it is the case that we have to take a decision on this, but it is logical that we in the Senate would like to know how the government views this. We are often faced with a possible recourse to Article 39 (2).
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u113	I'm not going into that. It's very simple. I just read you how it works. The House of Representatives examined the legislative proposal and, in the context of that examination, did not see any reason to find that there was a major change. That's the other situation. At the time when I submit a legislative proposal or one of my colleagues in the cabinet, it is my responsibility or that of my colleague to ask me, prior to the examination in the House of Representatives, whether there is a significant change in the framework of Article 39 (2) of the Statute. That doesn't play here. I have explained that this is up to the initiator and then to the House of Representatives. You cannot expect me, if the House of Representatives adopts the bill as it did, then as a government in the First Chamber I will give my opinion on it. That's not how state law works.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u114	Then may I ask the Minister like this? In the letter from the authorised minister of Saint Martin she writes: we believe that this is a major change in criminal law. It continues: it concerns the Head of State. Your argument is, if I understand correctly, the measure of punishment, not the institution itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u115	I find it very difficult to... I don't want to lecture around here about how that works, but it's kind of going that way. If we take Rule 39 (2) in the lunch break or what kind of break is it? Read again, you will see that it says: if you substantially amend the laws referred to in paragraph 1, you will have to do that consultation. Article 39 (2) therefore leaves room for differences between countries in these areas of legislation, and I can give you examples of this. So that's possible. If the House of Representatives adopts this legislative proposal, this initiative proposal without finding that there may be a major change, with a consultation procedure taking place, then the House of Representatives simply concluded that this is not a major change. That's how it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u116	That is all very clear to me under state law; there is no need for a college to do so. What is necessary is for you to give an assessment of the letter that has been sent to us today in a special way. That letter states that the weighting of St.Maarten in the context of gravity is based on the fact that the head of state was brought into the discussion here. I asked you whether you still believe that it is the penalty that determines whether it is heavy or not. You have explained that you do not think it is important enough to go into the procedure. I'm gonna ask for confirmation of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u117	The argument given here by the Minister responsible for Saint Martin is an interpretation of Article 39 (2) of the Statute. But once again, the House of Representatives has clearly decided differently on this bill. You can shake your head, but of course that's how it is. As a government, I respect that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u118	I understand that the Minister does not wish to prejudice what has been decided in the Lower House, but this is the Upper House. This is simply a piece of State-General and we too are trying to follow the Statute in all conscience. If another country in this case is that St.Maarten says "we find this far-reaching; we would have liked to be consulted on this," says that what about relations between the countries in the Kingdom and with that about how Article 39 works. I would very much like the Minister to speak now that another country is reporting. That is the case now. That wasn't the case when the House of Representatives talked about it. There is nothing we can do about that, but this is now a new one. How does the Minister assess the fact that this communication is currently being reported to this country?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u119	As far as I know, this route has been going on for a year or more. Let me look aside, Mr Verhoeven. He says it's been four years. That gives everyone ample opportunity to take note of the fact that this process is progressing and to consider the question of Article 39 of the Statute, let me just say. I'm just putting it in a very general sense. Now I'm here as a member of the government in the First Chamber. I have indicated to you that I am already telling you something about the plot of the cabinet's position that this cabinet, with possible reservations on points, has said: we can agree, because the complaint is maintained and it remains an increased penalty because it concerns the King. Those are the points that focus mainly on the Head of State. I can go that far. I cannot then enter into a discussion about the opinion of the House of Representatives; I am not going to do that. The House of Representatives thinks it is a good bill and apparently does not consider it to introduce a major change in our criminal law. 'Cause that's what it's about. It is a question of whether people think that this is a major change in our criminal law. The fact that it concerns the head of state in this case is an impression that finds one profound and the other not. Our House of Representatives, which is sovereign in this respect as far as the legislation of the Netherlands is concerned, has clearly said: we do not consider this to be far-reaching. It is not qualified as such. I have to leave it at that. I have indicated to Mrs Bikker that I hope that she will be reassured that we, as a cabinet, have, of course, looked very closely at how we ourselves look at this. You can shake your head, but it would be entirely wrong if I were to consider the House of Representatives. I'm not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u120	Isn't that very unsatisfactory? I have another question, but I'm gonna hook up to the lock. It is now suggested that the House of Representatives has made a deliberate assessment, but that is a fiction. There has been no deliberate consideration of whether or not it is significant. This is a point which, in a sense, also for me, has now fallen out of the sky. So do you not attach too much value to the so-called firm consideration that would have been made in the House of Representatives but has not been there at all? I think we can talk about the legal aspect for a very long time, but is this not much more in the area of relations with the other countries? There is now a request from Saint Martin and the Minister actually says in so many words: they have had four years to respond and they have not done so; now we are not going to take it seriously anymore. That, I think, is not exactly the way the countries should interact and interact with each other. How does the Minister view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u121	Mr President, your Members are asking me again for an opinion on what the House of Representatives has decided and I am not going to give it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u122	Actually, here's what I'm asking. There is now a request from one of the countries. What are appropriate ways of dealing between countries? You don't have to give an opinion on the House of Representatives at all. We are now dealing with this request. What, then, is a correct way of dealing with this in the eyes of the government?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u123	With this request? That's complicated, because it's not a request to the government. This is a letter to your Justice and Security Commission. Let's start with that. Secondly: it is a bit special that I should record it here in front of the House of Representatives of the States-General. He would say head-shakingly: that is not necessary. We are now putting the emphasis on this letter, while I have just indicated to you that this treatment has been going on for four years. At least since I was a minister, I've been involved, as far as I've put something in it. So there has been an absolute opportunity for everyone, whether in the Lower House, in the Upper Chamber or in Sint-Maarten, to learn about this and find something about it. That is all I can see. There's a letter now, dated today. I am merely saying: I do not think you should say that the initiator, for example, has failed in the manners. That is all I can say, because the government has no other role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u124	I did not intend to respond at first, but the Minister's reaction to the interruptions invites me very much to do so. Initially, I heard the Minister say that it was not discussed in the House of Representatives. Furthermore, the Minister mentioned a number of elements of amendment to the bill which the government could support and said that the government did not consider it to be significant. I would actually like to highlight three elements, to which I would ask the Minister to respond. Can the Minister imagine that there are changes to this proposal which are perceived as far-reaching? For example, I would like to refer to the discussion of just now with the Christian Union spokesperson on classification. It is about the head of state, and the positioning of the head of state in criminal law is certainly changing. Is it a matter of the King's dignity, or is it suddenly a kind of communion crime that receives a slightly different treatment? Can the Minister imagine that, regardless of the level of punishment, it is said: it is a change that is more than just bringing down the penalty? That's the one. The second point is that the Minister constantly refers to the House of Representatives. Apparently it has not been discussed in the Lower House. That's fine, but I find it a little strange that the Minister says he can't say anything about it for that reason. This would mean that a member of the Supreme Court could not actually respond to any of the legislative proposals passed by the House of Representatives and which the House of Representatives has said something about when either the same or other things are put forward there. I think it's just inherent to the two-chamber system that sometimes things come forward that may not have been discussed. That is why it seems strange to me that a ruler says that he is not going to answer it here because it was not there and that he says that he should have done so in the House of Representatives. That's the other question. Moreover, if you look at the Statute, you may think first of all of a proposal in the House of Representatives, but of course this is also a part of the States-General. A possible gap or procedural lack in treatment that has not been discussed before can of course always be repaired. So my question is: how does the Minister see it? If something has not been discussed in the House of Representatives, should the First Chamber, by definition, just say: a pity, then let's leave it at that? This is what I am asking about this proposal, but it also applies to other proposals. Then there is a third point. Quite apart from the substantive appreciation you have given, it has already been pointed out in a number of previous interruptions that it is, of course, a new fact that there is now a letter. You can say that the letter could have been sent earlier, but it hasn't been sent before; it's here now. The question is: how does the Minister feel about the letter being here now? Should you just ignore it and tell a room like ours that it should have been sent sooner or not? It's, I think. It is not surprising that the First Chamber, which submitted this question to him, is indeed asking the Minister how he views it. In the end, the judgment remains with this Chamber, but in a two-chamber system like ours, it is not surprising to ask what the Minister's view is now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u125	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Van Bijsterveld had three points, and they run a little through each other. First of all, I did not say that it was explicitly taken into account by the House of Representatives or not. I can't say anything about that. I have to say that at least the point that this is a major change as referred to in Article 39 of the Staff Regulations has apparently not been raised in the House of Representatives. I read in the Staff Regulations that it is a question of bringing it up when there is a major change. That's what it's like to be technical. It is therefore not the case that Article 39 of the Statute obliges us to always say out loud in a Chamber procedure whether or not something is significant. That could have been in there, but no. Article 39 (2) of the Statute says that you have to do that consultation when it is far-reaching. Apparently, it's not considered significant. So that is not an issue that is explicitly addressed in Article 39 (2) of the Statute, at least that is what I read. I hope that at least that will be the first answer to Mrs Van Bijsterveld's three points.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u126	For example, you can read Article 39, but it says that something is not being dealt with before governments have been given the opportunity to present their views. It may as well be that it has been assumed that governments have been given the opportunity to present their views and that they were not there. Nothing was said about that in the House of Representatives. We don't know that. It is the interpretation of the reason why it has not been discussed in the House of Representatives. The fact is, there's a letter now. With his interpretation of Article 39, the Minister says all kinds of things about the House of Representatives. But it's interpretation. We don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u127	Now you are going to push me in a direction that I say is not at all the job of the Minister. I read out Article 39 (2) of the Statute. "A major change in the existing legislation in this document "This is paragraph 1, so that is, among other things, criminal law or criminal proceedings" shall not be filed with the representative body, i.e. in this case the Lower Chamber and/or the First Chamber or examined by the representative body before the government in the other countries has been given the opportunity to express its views on this matter." That's exactly what I just said. If, therefore, the initiator considers that something is a major change, then he must follow that procedure. It may be that the Chamber would point out to him that it is a major change in her view, which would require him to pass it through that consultation. That is how it is defined in Article 39 (2). I didn't think of it that way. That's what it says in the Staff Regulations. That's the answer I just gave to Mrs Van Bijsterveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u128	To take away the impression that the entire First Chamber has misunderstood the Minister's accusation, I would like to say that according to the SP Group, the explanation given by the Minister to Article 39 and its application is absolutely correct. And I think colleagues who believe that there is another interpretation of Article 39, which should be discussed here and not the Minister's back.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u129	I find that a little too easy, if I may put it that way. This is partly about the constitutional position of the Lower House and the Upper House, and partly about the Statute. And there's a letter. The question is how it should be assessed in the light of the procedure we now know. What is the view of the Minister of Justice on such a situation and what respect do we give to the countries of the Kingdom in such a situation? In substance, I can still agree with you that it is not a major change in criminal law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u130	I repeat, through the Minister's band, that it is very good if other senators think that under Article 39, we should do something else in the current procedure. I think they should include this in the second term of the debate and put forward a proposal for it, and that they should not always play it through the Minister's band. He doesn't have to have an opinion on that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u131	Well, I think that the Minister, or at least the Cabinet, should also be concerned about the proper application of the Statute, in any circumstance and at any stage of the legislative process. This is simply a general remark on my part.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u132	Mr. Chairman. I have therefore already made this general remark in response to a third of Mrs Van Bijsterveld's interruption by saying that this is how Article 39 (2) of the Statute works. And I have already explained earlier that if I come up with a bill, I have to take the test myself or that's far-reaching. In this case Verhoeven must do so. If he doesn't think so and if the Chamber doesn't bring that up by a majority... It could have been that a political group in the Chamber had said that it was far-reaching and that a majority of the Chamber had said that it did not find it. Apparently, this point has not been raised. This is how Article 39:2. That's the first part. The next part is that if that is not the case, you actually come to the second point: the question of how to deal with it as a cabinet. I have already explained on Mrs Van Bijsterveld's second point that the House of Representatives is considering such an initiative proposal. Apparently, she doesn't think it's significant. And that "not finding" is therefore in the functioning of Article 39:2, how it is written down. Then it is not for the government to interfere. I would, of course, like to make it quite clear: that is just as true to your Chamber. It wouldn't really be a good idea for me to send a letter to the House of Representatives after this session on how I think your Chamber will ultimately interpret that. That's the second part. I think I've said enough about that, too. I also mentioned a third point. I said that the cabinet had no problem initially that the complaint was maintained, and that this is the case now. You can also read this in parliamentary history. The higher sentence has also been maintained. This means that the cabinet can at least live with the change in the law article as such. Then I come to Mr Verheijen, because I would have liked to have said that. Even if such a letter comes on the day of treatment, in a situation like this it is important. I am honest to say that I must of course note that the point has not been raised so far in your First Chamber either in the rather detailed written procedure. I have to say that. I am telling you quite frankly that I thought until today: it seems that this is the same here. If that's different, then so be it. Then I don't have a single assessment of that. At your point of contact, I think that if there is such a letter, you should at least comment on it with an explanation. I have just explained how it works legally and procedurally with Article 39 of the Statute.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u133	If the Minister invites me, I'd like to explain. I asked in my written contribution why the applicant did not request an opinion on the BES public bodies. Those are Bonaire, Saint Eustatius and Saba. The author said: I do not think they are about that; that is what the Chambers are about. I read that last night. Then I thought: what about the countries of the Kingdom? You can search it in the response. It's the very last sentence. That is what I asked for in relation to the BES. Then I thought last night, and I admit it is late: what about the other countries of the Kingdom? That's how the question came up. And today, Saint Martin reported in. That also came for me as a thunderbolt in the clear sky. That's all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u134	There is a fairly substantial difference between the BES islands and the other countries in our Kingdom. I would then like to answer Mrs Bikker's question immediately, which agreements are in general with the BES islands. I assume that Mrs Bikker will be referring to legislative proposals prepared by the government. For this purpose, Article 209 of the Public Authorities Act Bonaire, Sint Eustatius and Saba applies. This describes cases where advice should be sought. This concerns, in short, situations where administrative tasks are assigned or modified or where there are major changes with significant implications for public sector bodies. So that's what applies to the BES islands. Anyway, that's not the issue right now. But that is at least an answer to that question. That is a very different regulation from Article 39 of the Statute.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u135	Have we discussed this part sufficiently?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u136	I hope so!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u137	In any case, we have discussed it at length. Do you have much to answer? I'm just looking at the clock.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u138	No, Mr. Chairman. I have now been able to take this point about the BES islands with me, because I still owe that answer to Mrs Bikker. Then I actually got to the cabinet position. I thought, when I look at you, that I can now repeat that quite briefly. You've already been able to take a reasonable look at that. Let me make it quite clear that, in the opinion of the Cabinet, there are arguments against the abolition of the crime of majesty. To preserve the king's central position in our constitutional monarchy and to enable the king to fulfil his binding role in society, a protection tailored to that position and role is necessary. It does not unite with the neutral position of the King in our monarchy nor with his dignity that the King himself should in future complain about an insult. I just want you to have said that out loud again. With the second letter of amendment, the initiator has excluded the King and has also provided for a penalty increase if there is an insult to the King. In doing so, the initiator has shown that he is aware of the objections I have just described. He wanted to find a solution to that. This can still reflect the special position of the Head of State. The cabinet therefore has no major objections to the expiry of the separate offence of insulting a foreign head of state. As I have already indicated, the general offences of insult offer adequate protection. Finally. Initially, only a limited group of officials were granted additional protection under the initiative proposal. On the advice of the Council of State, the initiator has previously decided to apply additional protection against insult to judges. By letter of amendment, the National Ombudsman was added, because his position is actually similar to that of judges. This also means that that point has been resolved and that the ruling on the bill is left to your Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u139	The Minister states that the government attached great importance to the cancellation of the King's complaint requirement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u140	Just re-introducing the complaint requirement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u141	Yes, sorry: re-introducing the complaint requirement. In any case, it is important that he does not have to file a complaint himself and that the prosecution itself can decide whether prosecution is necessary. I have made the point that it is strange in that respect that it is now different for the Heads of State or Government who have to file a complaint. The question is, how does the government view that? The government, of course, also has its own responsibility towards friendly Heads of State who are visiting here, also in view of the opinion of the Council of State on this matter. Can the Minister comment on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u142	I believe that there is an important difference in a democratic society when it comes to freedom. I've said all I can about it. The government is concerned with the position of the King as our Head of State, with that royal dignity, where it is always difficult for him to defend his interests in his own society with such a complaint. That justifies the fact that we do not set it up for our Head of State in that way. And for a friendly head of state, as far as we're concerned, the following still applies. For it may also be that a friendly head of state is offended, but our judges do not think that is the case. It is now also the way for a head of state such as him or her to be offended, if he or she is not staying in the Netherlands, simply to complain about it. I believe that this justifies the separate position of our Head of State, as has just been described.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u143	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u144	Finally. The Council of State indicated that, as the Netherlands, we also have a duty towards friendly Heads of State who are visiting here to ensure that they are also protected from insult. It's kind of weird that they have to file a complaint themselves. Of course, the D.A. can decide whether or not it's right to prosecute. So I can't quite understand it. It's about a friendly head of state that's here, which we're also responsible for. I can't quite understand why it would be different for such a head of state to our King, who feels offended here. I am particularly concerned about the responsibility we bear for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u145	I've just said it's about our head of state in our society. That goes for a friendly head of state, not necessarily, whether or not that head of state is staying here. Anyway, let that head of state stay here and be offended. I am still saying this: that is not a head of state who is in a difficult, difficult position because it is happening in his own society and you may wonder whether the lodging of a complaint does justice to his position, as would be the case with our King, who would then have to file a complaint in his own society. It doesn't weigh the same. And that is perhaps where this government, when it comes to the friendly Heads of State, departs from the opinion in that regard, because that is the Council of State. That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u146	Thank you. I understand that Mr Verhoeven wanted to add something.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u147	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u148	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u149	Yes, it won't be me, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u150	No, you shouldn't interpret it in such a way that I blame you. I'm just looking at the clock.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u151	The clock is unbearable, but I had three more questions. One with regard to the friendly head of state. Mrs. Strik asked for that. Actually, this question has already been answered by the Minister. I agree that the D.A. is not going to prosecute on its own initiative, either through a complaint or through diplomatic channels. If you add all that together, it's just sustainable and workable. So we could just stick to that. Mrs. Strik's analysis is correct. We have considered that there may be a difference between one's head of state and one's head of state, and that there is a diplomatic absence. The second point was Mr Köhler's calculation. That's right. Article 262 lists two years at most for defamation and slander. So if you let go of Article 267, that is what Mr Köhler meant, but I couldn't see that so quickly, then you will indeed get 24/3 is eight months. You'll add it to that. That's the third increase. That's right. The maximum prison time that can be allowed to roll out on the basis of my proposal, based on the combination of Articles 262 and 267, is indeed the sum that Mr Köhler made. That is how Rule 267 works. You can find all sorts of things, but within this proposal that has not changed. So it hasn't been discussed either, but it is true. I was just looking, but I looked it up and I know it now. The final point. The Minister has said a great deal about it. I think it is understandable that he says that it is, of course, up to the Chambers to make a choice. I'm not sure exactly what we should do with this. First of all, I do have a number of points which I can say briefly. First of all, I made the assessment and concluded that it is not far-reaching. It is about the head of state, but it is not about a radical change. The complaint requirement and the penalty increase remain, so it is a very limited change to the Code of Criminal Law. That's what I've been saying. Then you can make the choice whether or not it's far-reaching. The President himself has also indicated that this is a political weighting. Next, the Lower House and the Cabinet have not said anything about it in the discussion so far. The First Chamber also stated by letter that it considered it appropriate for treatment. The First Chamber has therefore expressly indicated itself that the proposal is ready for consideration. That is why I have come here to deal with the proposal. Now Mrs Bikker is right that that letter came today. How it happened doesn't matter, but we have to find our way with it. I am therefore saying that the amendment is not significant. Differences are possible within the lands of our kingdom. That is the case in many cases. The differences are not very great, so as far as we are concerned, it is not a major change, which means that the practice is no longer feasible and all kinds of problems arise. Differences between countries are also good. That's perfectly normal in our kingdom. There are many examples in which consultation has not been requested, but it would be possible to call it substantial or not. For example, a proposal for an initiative law of the Christian Union has recently been discussed to criminalise or not criminalise genocide. No consultation has been requested for that either. That's a big deal, too. I do not want to say that it should have been then, but it is one of the examples that is playing. The treatment's been going on for four years. I think we can find a way by simply stating that there are possible differences within the kingdom that are not profound and very large and that it is workable in the future. I think it is very feasible to just do it the way we have been using it until today. I do not think it is very necessary at the moment to make a proposal, but I am waiting for a proposal from the Chamber. But at the moment I still believe, having heard the Minister and the whole process so far, that this is not a major change. I therefore also believe that we did not have to consult in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u152	Thank you. Mrs Bikker would like a final interruption in this period.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u153	I would like to suspend briefly to talk to the spokesmen about how we should deal with Article 39, because it may affect how we then enter the second period.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u154	Yes, you can also come with it in your second term if you want something with Article 39 of the Statute. It's just a question, you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u155	I'm looking, too. It's a surprise for me, too. That may be possible, but it would be a pity if we only talk about Article 39 throughout the second period, when there have been many more questions that need to be dealt with. That is why I would like to discuss this point with the spokesmen. We can also come back to this at the beginning of the second term, because then everything can be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u156	That would be my proposal. Then you will also have a little more time to discuss during dinner break. At the beginning of the second term, you will come up with that point. If the others agree, I will be the first to give Mrs Bikker the floor in second term. Then we've treated it. Shall we do it like this? Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u157	We have reached the second deadline of the initiative proposal 34456, Mr Verhoeven's proposal to amend the Code of Criminal Law and the Code of Criminal Law BES in order to repeal some special provisions concerning insults to Heads of State or other public persons and institutions. We are coming to the second term of office and I give the floor to Mr Dercksen. Oh, no, I'm sorry. I promised Mrs. Bikker I'd get started. I went on autopilot. Excuse me. Mrs Bikker, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u158	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thought I had 15 minutes, but I'll limit myself. At the end of the first term, I asked you to have a moment with the spokesmen about how to interpret Article 39 (2) of the Statute. I can tell you that even after an hour and a half of speaking on this subject, the spokesmen are unable to reach a unanimous conclusion in the conciliation procedure. I have not heard any serious arguments about the letter that came from Saint Martin today, in which the country of Saint Martin claims to find and want to be heard a radical change, why Article 39 (2) of the Statute should not be applied at that time towards Saint Martin, especially since the countries, as I understand it, have not been asked for an opinion. We can find anything from the moment that letter comes, but it is the fact that the letter is there and that the Statute is there to regulate the relationship between the countries of the Kingdom. This bill is about the head of state of all of us in this kingdom. Mr. Chairman. That is why I am tabling the next motion on behalf of a number of colleagues. The President shall: Mr Bikker, Mr Van Bijsterveld, Mr Diederik van Dijk, Mr Ten Hoeve, Mr Martens and Mr Lokin-Sassen proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to Article 39 (2) of the Staff Regulations for the Kingdom,]] [[Whereas the other countries within the Kingdom, namely Curaçao, Aruba and Saint Martin, have not been consulted and have not yet given their views on the Verhoeven initiative proposal;]] [[whereas a country from the Kingdom of Saint Martin has been informed that this bill is seen as a major change and that the country would like to give an opinion;]] [[calls on the applicant to ask the other countries within the Kingdom to submit their views before finalising the debate on this initiative proposal,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34456-I]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u159	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I sincerely believe that Article 39 (2) of the Statute could have been better started at the beginning of this process and could have led to the same outcome as it might have led to next week or later, but I attach great importance to those good relations in the Kingdom. That is the main reason why I have tabled this motion. I attach great importance to the Statute. Mr. Chairman. We have changed everything else; you would almost forget it after everything we have said about the Statute. I summarise our discussion in five points, which I would like to discuss with the initiator and on a single point with the Minister. First of all, I come to the issue of the legal system. According to the new Code of Criminal Law, if this bill takes effect, crimes against royal dignity are actually only crimes that involve a physical attack on the King or Queen, on the regent or on the heir. I think that I am pleased that the Minister has also said that, fortunately, not only is this royal dignity; that is more so. The adjustments to the Koopmans/Kuiks amendment are in itself an improvement on the original proposal, but I regret that it is now placed under Article 16 rather than under the crimes against royal dignity. I would like to ask the Minister, while he is constantly modernising criminal law for the next few years, to look at this at another appropriate moment. When we speak of the King, of our Head of State, where do we put it in this law? Then what's wise? The point is that our law remains a well-readable law and a law that I can put it that way? It's just a work of art and it's a good piece of work, not a mess. I'd like to hear the Minister on that. The initiator argued that he was not concerned with the penalty limit. But if you weigh this bill practically, that is especially the change we are seeing here today, when the bill becomes law. I would like to ask him again to explain to me why that penalty limit is not important to him and why he has reached this penalty limit. How does that relate to each other? The most important point for my group is that this bill was not, but really not, in consultation. I am referring not only to the countries of the Kingdom, but also to the Public Prosecutor's Office. Then I'm talking about the mayors, too. Then I'm talking about justice and the police. None of them have been thought by the initiator: it is good to consult them. He says: it's just a small change. But when the initiator submitted this law, the majesty desecration was completely removed and it was not the final product that is now before us. I'm asking him to reflect on that. I really appreciate the work of people who take on an initiative law. Let there be no misunderstanding about that. The next time it would be very good to involve the people who have to implement this law. I would also have liked to have been involved in my judgment of the law that is now before me. Mr. Chairman. I have one more point, and that concerns the abdicated King. The initiator has said a lot about modernisation. There's a chance here, I'd say. Just someone who has respect for the King would also have respect for the abdicated King. Wouldn't the initiator want to see more room in the law on that point to express that respect? I can tell he's taking that very well. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. That was my second-term input. You may imagine that the outcome of the vote on the motion is somewhat in favour of my group's opinion, but I suspect that we will vote against the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u160	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. I shall now give the floor to Mr Dercksen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u161	Thank you, Mr President. In my contribution, I mentioned it as a small, even minor change. It would then be somewhat inconsistent to go along with Mrs Bikker's proposals to declare Article 39 of the Statute to be active. The reason I am standing here is actually to give an explanation of vote on that motion. In the last hour, I sent an e-mail to the Minister responsible asking where the letter came from so suddenly at the eleventh hour. Two of the three addresses on the letter don't work. I do not yet have an answer from the third address, so unfortunately we have to deal with this. So far, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u162	I think it's kind of initiativeful, to be honest. Yes, an entrepreneur, you say so yourself. I give the floor to Mrs Andriessen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u163	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to the Minister and Mr Verhoeven for answering the many questions. As far as I am concerned, there are still a few points to clarify. First of all, public authority. That's what we talked about. Mr Verhoeven has a clear view on this. But what struck me again, because we were also talking about cups above articles, was that it was above Article 267: insult, inflicted on public authority. Isn't that something that actually requires change? Secondly, I have harassed you with the question of how you can get less jail time for insulting a people's representative than for insulting a public body. I didn't think I had a very clear answer to that. So just one more specific question: if I insult a municipality or a province, then I will get an increase in my sentence? I would like a clear answer to that, because that seems important for the public debate. Thirdly, our group was very pleased to hear from the Minister that extradition for insulting a friendly head of state in accordance with the old article is no longer possible because the fact has now been criminalised for too short a period. Those were the comments in response to my questions. Furthermore, we spent a lot of time on the letter from St.Maarten. There has been a lot of discussion about it, and it has also led my group to draw up a motion which has also been signed by a number of other participants in the debate. I'd like to file it. The intention is that we should return to a good relationship with the government in St Martin, but that this bill should be passed. The President shall: Mr Andriessen, Mr Köhler, Mr Backer, Mr Schouwenaar and Mr Baay-Timmerman proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas questions have arisen in connection with the own-initiative proposal by Mr Verhoeven (34456) following the letter from the authorised Minister of Saint Martin to the Committee on Justice and Security, d.d. 12 March 2019 on the absence of an opinion by the applicant;]] [[noting that the applicant considers that there is no substantial change in the proposal as referred to in Article 39 (2) of the Statute of the Kingdom;]] [[considers that it is nevertheless desirable for the Government, if the proposal is accepted by the First Chamber, to enter into consultation with the Government of Saint Martin with a view to promoting concordance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34456-J]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u164	I have nothing to add to the treatment. The questions I had have been answered well. The issue before us now is: what to do with the two motions? I do not know whether it is intended to talk about this now or later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u165	At the votes next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u166	Then I'd like to leave it at that, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u167	Thank you, Mr. Schouwenaar. I give the floor to Mrs Baay. Mrs Baay isn't? I shall now give the floor to Mr Verheijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u168	Mr. Chairman. For my part, too, a brief observation at the moment in the debate. The letter received this afternoon from the authorised minister of Saint Martin has somewhat caught us off guard. You might also wonder why such a letter or signal has not arrived before. What is the value of the Statute and the consultation that is being held in it if we do not talk to each other about it? All in all, we note that we can agree with the assessment of the initiator and also of the government that it is not a major change. In this sense, our position is that we could agree to the retention of the initiative proposal. However, we would like to hear from the Minister whether he is prepared to enter into consultations with the countries, particularly Saint Martin, in order to discuss ways of promoting convergence, as requested in Mrs Andriessen's motion. In itself, we do not need a motion; a commitment could be sufficient in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u169	Thank you, Mr Verheijen. I give the floor to Mr Ten Hoeve.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u170	Mr. Chairman. As far as my assessment of the initiative proposal is concerned, I do not really need to add much to what I said this afternoon. I would have preferred the amendments to Article 111 under Title II of Book 2 of the Code of Criminal Law to have been made, that the penalty level had been changed and that the grounds for exclusion were added there. The initiator says that this would have been a very profound renovation. I don't think that's too bad. The far-reachingness of the whole proposal lies, in my opinion, not so much in the material change that is made in this way, but more in the systematic change of the transfer of Book 2 to the commune insults. To qualify it as far-reaching... In my view, therefore, it is not material, because it is merely a matter of establishing where it is already in the judgments. In that sense, therefore, it is modernisation and nothing more than that. I signed Mr Bikker's motion. Therefore, I did not do so in order to make a statement on the extent of the proposal, which is very explicit, but I did so because I note that St Martin himself appreciates the fact that the proposal is, in any case, an assessment and is therefore apparently experiencing it as far-reaching. I think it would be wise to apply the procedure laid down in Article 39 of the Staff Regulations in order to deal with the situation in the Kingdom and on the basis of the intentions of the Staff Regulations. And I would stress that, as far as I am concerned, the aspect of concordance, which we often lose sight of, is important. It makes sense to try to keep the system as close as possible to the judgments that need to be made there and here. If the motion signed by me were to be rejected, but the other motion that has been tabled would be adopted, that aspect will in any case be emphasised. And I'm happy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u171	Thank you, Mr. Ten Hoeve. I give the floor to Mr Köhler.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u172	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I note that the initiator of the bill, the Minister and the SP Group are in complete agreement on this issue. This is almost unique in parliamentary history. But we can also respond to each other in part in this second period, as far as we consider necessary. I would like to respond to a statement by Mrs Van Bijsterveld. She spoke, referring to the article by Jasper van Uden, referred to by her "excellent', entitled The ban on majesty in the modern democratic rule of law, the following passage: "My group sees the case law analysed in this article as consistent. I will not quote the expressions in question here, because they are such ghastly texts that I do not wish to get them out of my mouth. Each case is clearly offensive and unnecessarily offensive and grievanced, which makes no contribution whatsoever to the social debate." And she uses that as an explanation of her statement that the article against majesty desecration is not too much used to nip all kinds of debate in the bud. But it may well be that, in the article by Jasper van Uden, we only encounter statements of a rather disgusting nature. This does not mean that the case law does not contain any statements which we consider to be completely inappropriate. That is why I would like to ask Mrs Van Bijsterveld the following. People have been condemned, only on the grounds of majesty desecration, just because they cried "Live the Republic," and had that on a banner. Does she think that's a crime?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u173	Mr. Köhler.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u174	Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u175	At this stage of the debate on this bill, I do not feel comfortable reopening the discussion between Members of Parliament. So you can ask the question, but I would ask Mrs Van Bijsterveld not to respond to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u176	Well, I'm sorry about that, Mr. Chairman. I should like to conclude by saying that I at least think that in the case-law there are many convictions for the desecration of majesty for expressions of no extreme grievance or malicious nature at all. But because of the single fact that you called "Live the Republic," you were already convicted in the past, on the basis of that article. Hence, it would be a good idea to delete that article. Let me now turn to Article 39 of the Statute. We do not believe that the present proposal is sufficiently substantial to imply an obligation to consult with the other countries, especially in the form that the legislative proposal has now been adopted after amendment in the House of Representatives. With regard to Saint Martin's reaction, I would like to say the following. Of course, it is not the case that St Martin, although it may find it, can determine whether we think it is far-reaching enough. We have to do this ourselves as a parliament. About the reaction I would also like to say that Sint-Maarten, of course, could also, at the time when it still felt like it, have reacted independently and could not have asked for an opinion to the House of Representatives. This could possibly have led to the amendment of the law, where it could, in short, still have been taken seriously. As far as we are concerned, this would no longer be possible at this stage. However, in order to give a proper answer to Saint Martin, we have signed Mrs Andriessen's motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u177	Thank you, Mr. Köhler. I give the floor to Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u178	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would very much like to thank the initiator and the Minister for the comprehensive answer. In conclusion, my group is still sympathetic to the legislative proposal. By the way, we were already there. On a number of points, my group would have preferred the proposal to go a little further, particularly with regard to custodial sentences, so as to ensure that people are not deterred from using freedom of expression. But the initiator has already indicated and explained the reasons behind the choices he has made. I can also justify that, because it is a step in the right direction. I had an exchange of views with Minister and initiator on friendly Heads of State. My group still does not think it is entirely consistent that they should be dealt with differently. I also notice that the Minister finally says: if the opinion of the Council of State is there, it is only an opinion, an opinion. I would like opinions from the Council of State to be a little more appreciated. Then the point that was very important at the end: the consultation. First of all, it was a question of whether the legislative proposal is substantial enough to enter into this consultation procedure. My group believes that you can look at it in different ways. That is the whole problem, precisely because there are so many different social views about what should be seen as an insult and what not. Then you have to deal with different countries. The Netherlands has a fairly liberal tradition, especially at the present time. This could be different in other countries. Well, precisely in that respect, it would have been on the initiative of the initiator to enter into the consultation procedure, especially in view of the content of the original legislative proposal. At that time, it would certainly have met those criteria. That didn't happen. There's a letter from Saint Martin now. The question is whether we can ignore that at the moment. This also has to do with the interpretation of the Statute. This is not just about the degree of depth. It also states that the consultation should begin before the legislative proposal is dealt with. The question is whether that makes any sense now. Can we do it now? It would have been better if it had happened at the beginning, even by the House of Representatives. It didn't happen there either. But my group also goes a long way to say: we are already at the end of the treatment; it makes no sense at all. We're in the First Chamber for a reason. It is not the case that nothing else happens here when the House of Representatives has been pronounced. Then we might as well shut ourselves down. From a formal point of view, there would even be a novelle possible. The point is, it hasn't been adopted yet. That treatment's still going on. That is why, as a group, we are still in a dilemma as to whether we are going to ask. Do we think it is still the right time to ask Saint Martin to submit the view? That's the dilemma we're in right now. I would like to discuss this in the group on Tuesday and show what has emerged from the vote. We shall, of course, also discuss the other motion. It calls for the promotion of concordance. That's clear after the legal process is over. That's always good, discussing concordance, but that's not what Saint Martin is asking for. Is that a response to the letter? That's why we're gonna have to weigh those two against each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u179	Thank you, Mrs. Strik. I give the floor to Mrs Van Bijsterveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u180	Mr. Chairman. In advance, I was very honored that the spokesperson of the SP considered me worthy of such a long quote. The President called for the substance of the matter not to be taken into account, but I would like to put one sentence to it. It is obvious, of course, that case law to which I refer is recent case law and that there is no point in resorting to 19th or early twentieth century case law in a debate such as today. It's about how the judge and the prosecutor now deal with issues of suspicion of deliberate insult. That's what I wanted to comment on. Social conditions change, of course, and also the valuation and assessment when there is insult. I now turn to two aspects of the previous discussion. The first is the consultations of the other countries in the Kingdom. The second is the position of the abdicated King. I'll start with the first one. My signature is under the Bikker motion calling on the initiator to ask the other countries within the Kingdom to submit their views before the debate on this initiative is concluded. Let me explain that signature. The letter from the authorised Minister of Saint Martin came very late, but he did come and it does mean that it is a new fact for us that we should simply look at it. The second consideration is that it is purely a procedural issue which is also quite simple to repair and will not take very long. We must of course bear in mind in the First Chamber that the legislative procedure is not concluded when the House of Representatives has voted on a legislative proposal. It is now up to us, and it is now up to us to give an opinion on this. Moreover, there is no rush to adopt this proposal. It has often been pointed out that a lot of time has passed since the very beginning of this proposal. Then a few weeks more or less really doesn't matter at all, radically or not. My final consideration is that the courtesy of the author of the letter actually asks us to take that letter seriously and also to respond to the request that is actually contained in it. I would say that this request is also worthy of consideration, especially since it is now about the position of our common Head of State. I therefore support the appeal made to the initiator in that motion. Then two: the position of the abdicated king. I am very sorry that the Minister has not responded positively to my question as to whether he is prepared to promote legislation that brings the abdicated King under the provision of the now proposed Article 267, introductory wording and under 1°, the Code of Criminal Law. The Minister pointed out a balance which the legislator made in 1981. But, yes, I think: 1981 is a little over 40 years ago, and we are indeed talking about modernising certain provisions. I would think that something like this could be taken away. I would also like to refer to the 1983 Constitutional Review, i.e. two years after that, after 1981. That constitutional change has made a change in the position of the King who has renounced the crown. For the sake of clarity, I would like to refer to Article 16 in the numbering of the Constitution 1887. That is Article 15 in the numbering of the 1992 Constitution, which is Article 27 of the current Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u181	Do you still think about your time, Mrs. Van Bijsterveld?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u182	I'm definitely thinking about time. Apart from that, and that is actually the most important thing, I would think that an insult to the abdicated head of state is certainly also emanating from the King's dignity. This is certainly the case in the current situation, which is the practice of everyday life, but of course I am mainly concerned with the principle of a king who has renounced kingship, but who is nevertheless very closely involved in the functioning of the King in the State-law sense. I would like to draw your attention to this book entitled Year Review 2018, which I received in my hands today, actually this evening. In that everything is neatly written with photos.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u183	You've run out of time for two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u184	I come now to my last sentence. Perhaps, on another occasion, the Minister would like to change the Code of Criminal Law, rethink this debate and consider making these changes after all? Thank you for your understanding, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u185	Thank you, Mrs Van Bijsterveld. I give the floor to Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u186	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to make a few comments on my part. I would like to thank the initiator and, of course, the Minister for the sometimes very rapid response. We can look back on a very special and sometimes wondrous treatment, which is quite nice to call, for example, a PVV spokesperson who is e-mailing the authorised minister of Saint Martin. The PVV is very keen to bear administrative responsibility, I can see. At the beginning of my speech, I noted that the bill had a high'meat nor fish' character. In particular, I was referring to the initial purpose of this bill, namely to achieve a complete equivalence of insulting the King with communal insults. As far as I am concerned, there is no such thing in the current version. Of course, the initiator fought that. Until we touched on the Statute, because at that time it was very useful for the initiator to stress: this is not so far-reaching, because otherwise we will be stuck with Article 39. Will I now stress from the outset that it is all very far-reaching and therefore not meat or fish, and that it affects the interpretation of the Statute? Looking back, I think this was an omission. If this had been taken into consideration at the beginning of the journey, everyone would probably have said: it is about the head of state; let us take it for granted and consult these countries within our Kingdom. That didn't happen. I think it would be a good thing if we were to be made more specific about how we can prevent this type of omission in the future. That is why I supported Mr Bikker's motion. This affects the manners within the Kingdom. As I would say, our approach to Saint Martin is also valid. The omission that has taken place is very easy to repair. That doesn't take much time. Mr Van Bijsterveld said the same thing. It could be arranged in a couple of weeks. Let's shape that. That is why I supported the motion. For the rest, much of the criticism I had in the first term remains. What exactly is the problem with this? In my view, there is no problem at all with the restriction of freedom of opinion or that we cannot have enough debate about the Royal House or anything like that. What is the real purpose of this bill? I have only a little suspicion: are we not engaged in an undesirable, creeping hollowing out of the special position of the Royal House? Finally, I agree with the questions and comments made by my CDA colleague on the abdicated King. I would like to hear a further reflection from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u187	Thank you. I'll take a look at the petitioner. He nods, so he has the opportunity to answer directly. Does that also apply to the Minister? Yes, I'd better assume so. I shall now give the floor to Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u188	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And thanks also to the members of this Chamber for their contribution in second term. I shall go through the questions and comments as briefly and as well as possible. I assume that it is not necessary for me to give an opinion on the motions, except that I can briefly comment on what has been said about them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u189	The motion tabled by Mrs Bikker asks the applicant to ask the other countries within the Kingdom to submit their views before finalising the debate on this initiative proposal. That is really addressed to the author, so I think you should say something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u190	Okay, then I'll try to do that. I think it has become clear by now that I do not think it is necessary to carry out this motion. Something has been said about it by the various spokesmen in the Chamber. A number of groups say 'we follow the explanation given by the author that it is not so far-reaching that it is necessary' and a number of groups say 'it is'. We all had conversations about this today. I'm sticking to my judgment that I don't think it's necessary to do it. I would like it very much, and that is a little bit of the other motion, to find a way to make it clear that this is an important point and that we need to do something with it, but it is not necessary with regard to this bill. Then I'll wait for the vote next week. Then I'm the one who has to or doesn't have to do something with it, but as far as I'm concerned, it wouldn't be necessary. I have already tried to support this in the first instance, but it was not such that it could have prevented the motion. Then Mrs Bikker also raised two other questions. One question concerns the point raised at the beginning of the debate. She says: the petitioner herself says that the penalty limit is not the most important point, but ultimately it is a matter of emphasis and is what is happening. My main point is that you have to provide legal certainty. We opt for a transfer of Title II. There we remove a piece and transfer the piece that we want to preserve, namely the fact that it is still criminal, to Title XVI. In doing so, we are not only doing something about the measure of punishment, but also about legal certainty, for example because of the grounds for exclusion that are already in it. We believe that this is the shortest and most logical way of achieving a number of things at the same time as deleting a number of articles, while maintaining Title II because it contains a number of other elements which are very important in our eyes and can therefore simply remain in it. Some people, such as Mr Van Uden, who has been reminded a number of times today, say that this proposal is a bit of a two-pronged proposal. Mr. Van Dijk finds neither meat nor fish. These are signs that are correct in themselves, because you are looking for a balance between a number of things: on the one hand freedom of expression, viewed by our glasses and with our eyes on the subject, and on the other hand a certain preservation of the protection of honour and good name. And so we have chosen this path. I say through the chairman that I know that Mrs Bikker still does not agree with that, but I cannot remove that in this period, so that is the case. Then there's the consultation. This does not concern Article 39 (2) of the Staff Regulations, but concerns, for example, the BES Islands and the Public Prosecutor. We have also talked about the D.A. extensively in the Lower House. There have been parties who have said: you could have consulted a little more widely. There has been a consultation and we have finally said that there has been enough. In this respect, we have not consulted a number of other organisations in particular. That's been a choice. We wanted to file this bill. The CDA group in the Lower House would very much have liked to have seen a consultation of the Public Prosecutor, but in the end the House of Representatives decided to deal with it anyway and finally it came to this discussion. That too is a choice: how far do you go in that? I cannot say more than that, at least not so that I can satisfy Mrs Bikker. Mr Dercksen had not asked me any further questions. Mrs Andriessen had asked about public authority and the title. The article has changed with regard to the role of public authority and the increase in penalties, but that does not mean that public authority as a whole has disappeared. So you wouldn't have to go so far as to change the head of the article, because, of course, there is still something like a public authority, but there is no extra penalty, which is the case with public bodies and public institutions. In that sense the glass is not completely poured; only a small sip has been taken of it. It's still a glass with something in it; it has a title and you can still call that public authority. I find it interesting, but I do not think it is necessary. Then the public body. That is a more tangible thing, like a province or a municipality. That is why we, as the House of Representatives, have chosen to do so because it has been part of the amendment to retain it as a penalty aggravating reason. Mrs Andriessen tabled a motion on the possibility of continuing the vote on this proposal under Rule 39 (2). I can agree more with that motion. Once again, I hope that the Minister will be able to say something about this and that we will find a way to deal with Saint Martin in a good and respectful way. That goes without saying. I have also always argued that I would like to do so, but that does not mean that I consider the scope of this bill to be covered by Article 39 (2). So that's my trade-off. Mr Schouwenaar also had no supplementary questions. He didn't think it was a big deal either. The same applies to Mr Verheijen. He didn't think it was that far-reaching. He didn't go through with the treatment and didn't ask any further questions. I found Mr Ten Hoeve's assessment rather elegant. He was actually going to try to explain why you can or can't see the depth in a certain way. He brought in multiple dimensions. He said that you can look at the equipment, but that you can also approach it through the legal technique and the chosen transfer method, which Mrs Bikker said something about. In the end, he made the decision to support the motion and to give some of it with regard to the follow-up to Rule 39 (2). I thought that was a good reflection of the feeling that, for example, Mrs Strik seems to be present with regard to the consideration she is going to make with her group on Tuesday. We'll have to wait and see, but I thought it was a nice explanation. Mr Köhler spoke of a unique situation. I think that can be true, although in the Lower House I have had many legal proceedings in which SP, D66 and Cabinet agreed. It's just that it's not that it happens every week, so it's remarkable. I was also very pleased with his input and with his weighting in terms of whether or not to be far-reaching. Then Mrs. Strik. She says that she actually wanted to go a little further on a number of points. That's a pretty good way to tell what's going on. On the one hand, there are people who say to me: Mr Verhoeven, calm down for a moment, because you are flying a bit down the bend and you have gone quite far in it; fortunately the House of Representatives has brought back a little bit here and there. On the other hand, there are people who say that they actually regret it and that they actually would have liked to see it go a little further. I think it was also Mrs Strik who said that the Council of Europe actually asked for no more prison sentences for the expression of insults. That's all true. This is typically one of those proposals where it is present all the time and where one says that I do not go far enough and the other says that I go far too far. Then sometimes you are a little bit of a D66'er to come out somewhere in the middle and hope that everyone understands that a bit, without it being like meat or fish, clinging to two thoughts, weak tea, lukewarm coffee or whatever. Through the answer I have tried to indicate that it is a search for balance that you should also address, Mr.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... D66 certainly doesn't want to ignore that either. We also see that the office, the person and the institution of the royal house has a special and important position in the Netherlands. So it is by no means the intention, Mr Ten Hoeve, that we say: let the King be well offended. That, of course, is not the approach at all. It is a question of finding a new balance and modernising it at a changed time. Mrs Strik says that this is a step in the right direction. That's good. With regard to the head of state, whom we have also discussed in the first instance, I must be careful that I do not choose the same formula for everything, but it is also about a certain choice and a kind of road that you are looking for between the head of state on the one hand, which protects you a little bit more by letting go of that complaint requirement, so that, of course, the prosecution can intervene, and on the other hand, a friendly head of state, for whom the diplomatic route is actually quite satisfactory. In addition to that, the Minister also says that it is quite possible to judge something differently without it being equally problematic and even before it is limited to the presence of that friendly head of state here in the Netherlands. I therefore believe that it is an appropriate choice in itself. We await the dilemma with regard to your position in that regard. Then Mrs. Van Bijsterveld. You have, of course, also supported the motion. You have also been very clear about your position on this proposal. It is, I think, especially for the Minister to answer the questions about the abdicated King. Mrs Van Bijsterveld did not ask me in second term. Mr. Chairman. Finally, Mr Van Dijk. That's funny, of course. He did that with a wink. I can answer that again with a wink, but then it becomes such a strange situation. He actually says "Mr Verhoeven has always said that it is rather profound. Until Article 39 came into view, and then it wasn't drastic anymore." I do not need to make my point or anything here, but I would like to say to the Acts that I have never called it'very far-reaching'. In fact, I have always argued that I have needed four years, and a lot of man-hours, especially many hours of my staff, in order to be able to make these targeted, limited and actually fairly clear changes to the Code of Criminal Law. It is necessary, it is a modernisation, it is targeted, but it is not very far-reaching. Actually, I never mentioned that myself. I would almost like to say that it has gone the other way. Mr Van Dijk thought it was neither meat nor fish and thought it was far-reaching when Rule 39 (2) was discussed. But it would be silly to say that back, and you wouldn't do that to a SGP man in campaign time. So I'm gonna leave that out, too. So I find it, all in all, not an omission either, but a conscious choice to act like this. Mr. Chairman. I have learned a great deal in many areas today about many different subjects. This law dealt with completely different cases than in the Lower House. That also shows how valuable it is to treat it in this Chamber. I had to work very hard here to stay up in answering all the difficult, yet legally thorough questions. So it was also a challenge for me to do so. I say to Mrs Bikker that I did just that here and there. But I have done so with great pleasure and I hope that it will be enough for the Chamber to be able to judge it. I thank the First Chamber, the Senate, so very much for the input and await the votes on the motions and the proposal. But thank you very much for your attention and attentive input.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u191	Thank you, Mr Verhoeven. I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u192	Mr. Chairman. I'll be brief. First of all, I would like to address two points at the same time. That is Mrs Bikker's point about the place in the Code of Criminal Law and Mrs Van Bijsterveld's point about the abdicated King. Although I have expressed sympathy for Mrs Bikker's point, I, as a minister, must also leave recent legislation. I can't go back to the Ministry next week, when I've attended the moods in your house, on the electric moustache bike and say... I understand Mrs Bikker's point, but if your Chamber were to accept it now and it will be in the Official Journal, we will have to deal with it in the near future. That also plays at the point of the abdicated king. But there is also the fact that the amendment of the Constitution in 1983 meant that abdication in terms of consequences was not equivalent to death. No further changes were envisaged. You can really find that in the history of law. Article 27 Constitution sees succession when the King renounces. So, as far as I am concerned, there is no relationship here with the insulting articles we are talking about. My ministry, of course, has looked at this point, even though I said that I also have sympathy for the last head of state in that regard. But once again, in any case, the insults continue to apply to her. She can simply appeal to that. Then there was Mrs Andriessen's question and motion. I understand the point. I can leave the motion for a resolution to the Chamber, stating that I do believe that the operation of Article 39 (2) is as I explained in the first period. I'm afraid I'm gonna stick with that. In any case, I think it is a good thing to have another discussion with the countries, especially with Saint Martin, given the letter we have received in order to promote concordance in all respects, and certainly in view of the fact that, from now on, perhaps a little earlier, we are getting connected to the question of whether there is a possible Article 39 (2) situation. In any case, the Chambers and/or the Government can be informed of this in good time. Mr. Chairman. I don't want to break anyone. Mrs Strik rightly pointed out that the Council of State is generally not inclined to give opinions, but I would like to add that I have looked at them and it was striking that the Council of State is still putting an emphasis on the fact that it is felt that a friendly head of state should be defended in the context of courtesy. I'm trying to be courteous in my life, too, but I'm telling you honestly that the state of law at some point weighs more heavily on me. This state of law may mean, in certain situations, that we, for example, as the Netherlands, say: we do not think this is an insult, so we are not going to file that complaint. Then you're just farther away from home with the courtesy. Finally, I would like to draw Mrs Strik's attention to something. Three pages earlier, the Council of State says exactly "that was the difference I made in the first term, albeit with less eloquence than the Council of State writes it down "that the King is a stabilising and binding factor in our society." That is why we must give him the protection so that he does not have to complain in this particular situation, which is also vulnerable to him, and for her in the past and in the future. With all the honour and virtue for all the friendly heads of state that you and I can think of: they have de facto and dexterity not that stabilising factor in Dutch society. Mr. Chairman. This is what I wanted to leave it at. I thank you and the Chamber for your time and patience.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u193	I would like to ask a question about Mrs Andriessen's motion. Was your commitment now such that the motion would become superfluous, because you are in any case in consultation with the countries within the Kingdom?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u194	I always have to see if that judicium of "unneeded" is still playing at all. I would at least like to say that I will leave the motion entirely to the discretion of the Chamber, because I shall proceed with this. I've seen the Chamber say she wants to take a motion on it before. I fully understand that, but at least I'm going to do it as it says in the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u195	Yes, Mr. Dercksen?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u196	But if the motion doesn't make it, will you do so in consultation with the countries of the Kingdom?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u197	Once again, I do not wish to spoil the pleasure of Mrs Andriessen's motion, but I shall do what she has written, namely to enter into consultation with the Government of Saint Martin. In fact, I have said a little more: with the other countries as well. So in that respect, you might say that it might be safe to adopt this motion. But I'm gonna do it anyway. I am going to talk to all four countries about how we can ensure that they are better connected in the future. You know that old English song 'It takes two to tango', so it has to come from two sides to draft legislation that falls within the scope of paragraph 1 of Article 39, so that they can decide for themselves, if the Chambers or the Government have not yet done so, whether they want to draw our attention to it: hey, maybe that is far-reaching. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u198	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u199	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on this bill? That's the case. I didn't have to ask that question, but I have to do it formally. Then I suggest that we vote on the bill next week. The vote on the motions will also be taken next week. Mrs. Bikker, that's the very, very last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u200	You are tired of me, but could my motion be put to the vote prior to the legislative proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-12-eerstekamer-12.u201	Yeah, that seems pretty obvious to me. So Mrs Bikker's motion will be put to the vote next week, then the legislative proposal and then Mrs Andriessen's motion. I'm suspending the meeting for 10 minutes to 9:00.
