ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u1	The next item is the debate on the TNO report on Stint. I welcome the Minister for Infrastructure and the Water State and give the floor to Mr Van Aalst as the first speaker, on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Four months after the terrible event in Oss, the plenary debate in the House of Representatives on the Stint will finally take place. The PVV has requested this, because we cannot explain that many questions remain unanswered. The PVV is convinced that this will not be the last debate on the Stint either, but only the beginning. Mr. Chairman. The conclusions of the RIP report are very harsh. According to TNO, De Stint definitely does not meet the safety requirements and therefore never, never should have been on the road. The fact that this did happen is a gross negligence. This negligence started in 2010 when the former minister created the new category "special mopeds," meant for example for the segway, but which led to a variant, the Stint; and there it went wrong. Mr. Chairman. The Minister stated that as early as 2011 officials from her ministry called the Stint to the door that it was a separate matter. This is due to the fact that up to ten children aged 4 to 12 could be transported. In the same year, both the National Road Traffic Agency and the Stichting Scientifice Onderzoek Vervoerheid expressed concerns about the safety and use of the Stint. The advice was kicked in the face by the Ministry. There was no investigation from the Ministry and the enormous security risk was not discovered. The Stint was allowed on the road. The fact that the Minister has not yet answered the question as to why no investigation has been carried out is irresistible. The findings of the TNO report show that the defects of the Stint were not caused by the manufacturer's sneaky adjustments, but that the deficiencies were structural. The fact that this has only just come out means that the Ministry and our minister have been blind from the outset to the fact that there are several thousand vehicles driving around in the Netherlands that were dangerous. Vehicles mainly used for the transport of children. How did this vehicle ever get on the road? And how does TNO, unlike the RDW, come to these devastating findings? Are different standards applied? What is the RDW's response to TNO's destructive reporting? I'd like to hear it from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. In December, the Public Prosecutor seized the administration of the Stint manufacturer. The police and prosecutor's investigation is still ongoing, and it will appear that there is a criminal charge against the manufacturer. But it may also be that the Minister has been sleeping and has allowed all this to happen. What about liability? Can the Minister clarify this for us? This investigation is very important to get all the facts about the accident on the table. However, the PVV states that it should not remain in the investigation of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Security Research Council. The same critical attitude must be taken as to why former Minister Schultz ignored the opinions of her officials, the National Road Traffic Agency and the Road Safety Research Foundation. Why hasn't the Chamber been informed of this? Why has there never, ever, been any control by the ILT on these particular vehicles? Isn't it bizarre that no one took action after the reports that the Stint didn't meet the requirements? Mr. Chairman. In addition to absolute clarity, we must make every effort to ensure that such an accident never occurs again. But in order to be able to look forward, we will have to look back first and determine who was responsible for what. The PVV is very clear in its position on the Stint: the PVV finds the Stint totally unsuitable for transporting small children. The PVV therefore calls on the Minister to maintain the temporary ban on Stint. Finally. It annoys the PVV that the answer to the questions of the Chamber has been delayed for a long time. After all the experience of the past period, this only leads to shadowiness and doubt as to whether the Chamber is sufficiently informed. Again, this is not the first but certainly not the last time we will talk about the Stint. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u3	Thank you, Mr. Van Aalst. Mr Laçin is interrupting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u4	I am largely in agreement with the PVV's criticism of the last seven, almost eight years, but I am curious about the following. The Minister will present the framework for the new admission in February. What are the requirements of the PVV? For example, what requirements does it impose on monitoring and enforcement? There weren't any on the Stint. Can the PVV explain this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u5	This is typically a case where the PVV said: if you put the government and innovation together, you get this kind of thing; then you get regulations that don't do everything, which also applies to enforcement and supervision. They've just been absolutely flawed. Surely you can expect to put extra enforcement and supervision on special innovative vehicles instead of no supervision?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u6	Finally, Mr Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u7	Finally. Does the PVV therefore agree with us that within the framework of the new admission requirements, the supervision and enforcement of all new vehicles within the category of special moped should also be regulated?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u8	I think that's a very good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u9	Compliments to Mr Van Aalst for his story, because that is broadly the same as the CDA story that I want to put forward later. At the end he only states that there is actually no future for a Stint 2.0, while I can imagine that there are still possibilities for a new Stint, a Stint 2.0. How does he see that? Does Mr Van Aalst see opportunities for a new Stint to get back on the road in the long run?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u10	I share the conclusion of TNO's report: transporting persons in such a construction requires so many adjustments that I do not consider it possible for children to be transported in a Stint again. So I am not saying that a Stint could not be possible; I am saying that it is not suitable for the transport of persons.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u11	Perhaps just to clarify: under no circumstances is it possible to transport children in a Stint again in the future? Even if it is a limited number, you do not see any possibility of doing so?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u12	I don't think this vehicle is suitable for transporting children from a daycare center. There are many beautiful alternatives for which are much better and safer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u13	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Laçin on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u14	Mr. Chairman. In the morning of September 20, 2018, the Netherlands was shocked by the terrible news about an accident in Oss in which four children died; an accident that struck me and many with me enormously. In the hours, days and weeks after the drama, more and more information came out, for example about the admission requirements for special mopeds, which were applicable to the Stint, but were never intended for vehicles with which children would be transported, and about the fact that this special category has not been used for what it was originally intended for for for for years and that there has never been proper supervision of the Stint or other special mopeds. I continue to be surprised that in all these years, when new moped applications were made for special mopeds, there was never a light on the Ministry and that no one ever called the doorbell and said: this is getting out of hand. It has gone from a few segways to seventeen special mopeds, including the Stint. Can the Minister explain this again? The results of the TNO report of 13 December are clear: the Stint does not meet any of the six safety objectives under review by TNO. Does the Minister believe that the Stint would never have been allowed to go on the road, now that the investigation indicates six times red? Do other vehicles in the category "special mopeds" meet these six safety objectives? Although we distinguish between passenger transport and private transport, e.g. the segway, the SP believes that all types of vehicles participating in traffic should be safe. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. The supply of innovative vehicles will only increase in the coming years. On the Internet, electric vehicles are offered which are not allowed on the public road and which are even referred to as "toys" on the government website. That really isn't from this time of year. For me, the key point is that the new admissions framework will provide clarity. What requirements does a vehicle have to meet? How do we test that in advance? And which agencies are responsible for this? A clear distinction must also be made between passenger transport, such as the Stint, and the associated requirements, and own transport. Monitoring and enforcement must be properly regulated at all times, so that we never again conclude that no body was responsible for enforcement as has happened with the Stint. Is the Minister prepared to include these points in the development of the new admission framework? Finally, Mr President. In previous debates on the Stint, we called for attention to be paid to daycare. The Minister had a discussion with representative organisations to identify the problems and talk about solutions. Is the Minister prepared to examine the proposals of these organisations, such as a possible child's helmet requirement in a revised version of the Stint and adjustments such as seat belts? I'd like to dwell a little longer on the safe routes to and from schools. They are very important to us. We need to ensure that a larger percentage of schools are accessible via safe routes. That's just over half of it now. Can the Minister undertake to bring forward the necessary investment for this purpose and to work with it swiftly? I'm considering a motion on this point. The Stint has been taken off the road for almost four months now. I would like to know from the Minister how many reports of nurseries have been received in these four months and how this is in proportion to the months before when the Stint was still used. Does the Minister have an overview of the total extra transport costs incurred by daycare centres and how nursery workers have covered these costs? Have these costs been passed on to the parents? Does the Minister see a role for himself to think along with and provide solutions? One more point: the most recent research into electromagnetic fields. It actually concludes that further research is needed. The D.A.'s gonna do more research to see if a criminal investigation could apply. Does the Minister still see a role for himself in this follow-up investigation? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u15	Thank you, Mr. Laçin. I now give the floor to Mr Smeulders on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today I am replacing my colleague Suzanne Kröger, who unfortunately cannot be present. Today we are talking about the research that TNO has done on the Stint. That is, of course, following the dramatic accident last year in Oss. This accident is clearly not the case today. All kinds of investigations are still being carried out, and this is still being discussed later. Today it is about the means of transport Stint and its admission on the public road. With regard to GroenLinks, we are discussing two points in this debate today. First of all, how is it that the Stint has been admitted? Secondly, how should we proceed? Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the first question, about admission. It starts with the segway, as has just been said twice. We understand that to allow the segway for a virtually rule-free zone, called "special moped." Subsequently, all kinds of new types of vehicles were added to this exception category, without looking at what this category was actually intended for or what these vehicles were intended for. Thus it seems that the Stint, which is always intended to be able to transport ten kindergarten children, has been approved, but without, for example, an independent braking system capable of stopping the vehicle. It is strange that no one in the Ministry has thought that a vehicle carrying preschool children in urban traffic may have to be subject to different, more stringent requirements than a segway. I'd like the Minister's reflection on this. Is it true that vehicles the Ministry expects not to be very popular need to be technically and practically less safe and that the road safety of a new vehicle is mainly assessed for possible impact on the accident statistics? I don't think that's the idea. GroenLinks believes that anyone taking part in the traffic should be able to assume that their vehicle and the vehicles of the other road users are safe. Does the Minister share this view? And if we all find that last thing, which I really hope, then we must also establish in practice whether it is really safe. That needs to be tested and maintained. Does the Minister agree with us? And does she agree with the fact that there really need to be clear rules? Because GroenLinks does not think that good, clear rules need to be a threshold for innovation, on the contrary, I am sure that entrepreneurs would like to know where they stand with the inventions they are doing. I think it is very important to stop double and triple control systems with exceptions and temporary arrangements. GroenLinks wants to get rid of the special moped. Does it not make much more sense, I would ask the Minister, to place everything on the public road under uniform European regulations? Is this possible? And if so, at what time? Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would very much like to hear from the Minister whether it would be better for someone who sends ten toddlers through urban traffic to be able to show that he is driving and knows the traffic rules well. That's the minimum we can expect from someone like that, isn't it? On this point, I am considering a motion in the second term. I look forward to the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u17	Thank you, Mr. Smeulders. I now give the floor to Mr Remco Dijkstra on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u18	Mr. Chairman. On Thursday morning 20 September there was a dramatic accident at the railway crossing in Oss-West. A Stint, an electric driven larger bike, which was driven by the leader of a daycare center, drove with five children through the barriers of the railway. The passing intercity then took away four children's life. An older child and the escort were severely injured and the Netherlands was in shock. The immediate relatives, the staff of the daycare center, the friends, the acquaintances, the aid workers and everyone involved deserve our appreciation and respect, because the emotion was high, but above all because the drama happened so suddenly and with unimaginable suffering. The mayor of Oss managed to hit the right chord in that. She was there for the people, and no one remained untouched, not even the minister, who was immediately on the spot. I must also mention the people of ProRail and the NS. Following the accident, TNO carried out research into the Stint. TNO has carried out research into the type of Stints intended for the carriage of passengers. TNO's report was devastating on all six parts examined. The level of safety of the Stint is insufficient, and on the basis of this conclusion, the Minister has decided not to allow the vehicle on the public road anymore. The TNO investigation does not comment on the possible causes of the Oss accident; this is also explicitly mentioned. Mr. Chairman. Everyone wants to make safe transportation of young children possible. Parents want their offspring to be safe, especially when they're in the hands of extracurricular care. Daycares want to go quickly and safely through the city, and had found a nice alternative to the car or vans. The public authorities must do their job, both in the inspection and in the admission of vehicles on public roads and in their control. That things could go so wrong is a wake-up call. There are lessons to learn and solutions to be found. How do we deal with this in the future? The safety of the transport of children is always paramount for the VVD. This tragic accident and the devastating conclusions of TNO also push the House of Representatives with the noses on the facts. Because we were there together when in 2007 and 2009 and later the frameworks were set for these types of vehicles. We have not sufficiently realised this up to the time of the accident. I take it we're in agreement. Now it is up to us to learn lessons together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u19	I have a very clear question. Indeed, some sort of experimental law has been passed to enable these special vehicles. It was meant for the segway. My colleague from the VVD indicates that we've all let it go a little bit, but does he agree with me that the Stint simply didn't fall within the requirements of that law at the time he was registered as a new vehicle, that he just didn't fall out of it, and that the RDW and SWOV also reported that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u20	It's easy to judge in hindsight. Unfortunately, such a serious accident was necessary to detect this, but the results TNO shows after an extensive review are really devastating. So this device did not meet what you should expect from such a device, but it was approved under that provision on special mopeds at the time. In hindsight, we should have learned from that and it shouldn't have happened like this, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u21	I would like to make it very clear that in 2011 the Ministry requested advice from RDW and SWOV and that it was clearly stated at that time that it did not meet the requirements we set out in that special vehicle law. Nevertheless, the Minister decided to press ahead and still give access to our road network. Then my colleague must agree with me that the Chamber has not been sleeping, but that the Ministry has just been sleeping?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u22	What you see here is that in the past a category has been set, "special moped" because the Chamber wanted it to be. The Chamber wanted innovation. All parties were enthusiastic about this, about innovation based on the segway. Later another vehicle arrived on the road, the Stint, with which you can also transport children. It was also tested in the same category. In hindsight, you have to say, "Is that convenient or not?" The device is indeed different from a number of rules, but that was mainly about the width of the vehicle. But if you look now at the investigations that are being carried out and at those six requirements, which are quite logical, for example, that such a vehicle can simply come to a standstill in time............................................................................................................................................................................. So now we know that Stint can't get on the road, because that's not safe. Mr. Chairman. It is clear to the VVD that there were mistakes in the testing framework for new vehicles. There was no supervision even after the approval. In retrospect, that was therefore unwise. Looking ahead, we need to learn lessons from this and see how we're going to do this differently in the future. I received a motion earlier, in a previous debate, with the broad support of the Chamber, for which I thank you, on the review of the regulatory framework for electric vehicles. We now need to improve the inspection of these new vehicles and, of course, we also need to look at how we keep up with technical development, without hindering innovation, but with sufficient attention to road safety, even during the life of the product. There are many more interesting electric vehicles that come on the market. They can simply provide smart solutions for transport and transport. We, as VVD, certainly welcome the innovation; we will continue to do so, but they will of course have to meet all the safety requirements before they get on the public road.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u23	You can finish your story first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u24	The Minister must therefore make proposals for the new review framework. The Court may then assess them. I think we should be careful not to over-regulate as a Chamber. The present or modified Stint may also be able to meet this in the future. But only if he's safe can he get back on the road, otherwise he won't. This is how we protect people, road users, and keep our roads safe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u25	We, too, supported Mr Dijkstra's motion, because I think that is a bitter necessity, but for the SP, supervision and enforcement are just as important a part of these new admission requirements. We have all had to draw the painful conclusion, in my opinion, that this Stint and those special mopeds have not been monitored or enforced in recent years. Does the VVD agree with the SP that clear supervision and enforcement of all vehicles that are also covered by the special moped should simply be ensured in the new authorisation frameworks and associated supervision and enforcement?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u26	The short answer is yes. I think you should also ask yourself to what extent you want to maintain the category of special mopeds, but supervision is essential and that is something that has been lacking.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u27	Thank you, Mr. Remco Dijkstra. I now give the floor to Mr Schonis, on behalf of D66. Mr. Schonis is making his maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u28	You don't think we should interrupt?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u29	No, you can't interrupt, Mr. Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u30	Mr. Chairman. Today, on my 105th day as MP, I can give my maiden speech, a beautiful milestone, even though it would have been worth a sweet thing if the reason for my contribution today had been a different one than the tragic accident with the Stint last September. It's possible. When I applied as MP in the autumn of 2016, I did so because I wanted to translate the many lessons from the practice of developing projects for new wind turbine parks into good national policy. One of the challenges in that work was how, on the one hand, you can give room for regulation for future innovations for new wind turbines, while, on the other hand, you give sufficient certainty to residents that it will not become too crazy in terms of environmental pollution in the future. When I was allowed to take the seat of Alexander Pechtold in October, I especially had that role as MP in mind: the role of co-legislator. I did not think for a moment that I would speak here in the plenary sitting on my first subject in the capacity of that other role which a Member of Parliament has, namely that of the policy controller and its implementation, and which would amend it where necessary. The file of the Stint accident controlled the first 105 days of my work as a Member of Parliament. As a sober Zeeuw, I mainly tried to use that file as much as possible. Although I am a newcomer in The Hague, I recognized the same struggle I experienced in my previous work when reading all those pieces and all those documents. How can you, as a regulator, let an innovative new vehicle like the Stint safely go on the public road without getting things closed in advance? And did you guarantee the interim monitoring to adjust your policy when new developments are emerging? Of course, it starts with the producer's own responsibility. Anyone who goes on the road with the Stint must be able to rely on it to drive clean and safe. However, the TNO study shows that the Stint has a number of technical defects. The good news is that these shortcomings can be remedied. Users of the Stint, such as daycare centres, still have no prospect of those technical defects actually being fixed. Is the Minister in consultation with the manufacturer on when these adjustments can be made? The bankruptcy requested by the producer has been rejected and can therefore actually carry out the adjustments. Does the Minister point him to his own responsibility in this matter? This brings me to the role of the Lower House and the Minister as legislator. A number of speakers have already referred to the Court of Justice on the admission of the Segway in 2008 after the date on which it adopted no other or new review frameworks in respect of the admission of new special vehicles such as Stint. The argument for this was precisely that new innovation and new innovative ways of transport on the public road should be encouraged, not closed. The tragic accident with the Stint in September pointed out that, unfortunately, it lacked a good set of rules with accompanying supervision and enforcement in this regard. The admission of innovative vehicles on public roads has been carried out for years on the basis of a limited number of policy rules. The Minister said that supervision did not take place at very little. Annual monitoring of, for example, the growth of the number of new types of vehicles on the public road has so far been absent. There has been no adjustment or adjustment at all. The results of the investigations seem to underpin more and more the Minister's decision to remove Stint from the road. We therefore believe that the Minister has done the right thing from the point of view of road safety. But that does not mean that the Minister is ready with regard to D66. It is not clear whether the Stint can go back on the road even after the technical adjustments have been made. After all, the new testing framework for special vehicles is still under development. When does the Minister expect to be able to send a detailed review framework to the Chamber? And does this involve the re-admission of the Stint on the public road? How does the Minister guarantee that this time the Chamber will be well informed and will continue to be informed about the implementation of the admission policy of special vehicles on the public road? Finally. How does the Minister ensure that the new review framework also offers and continues to hold for new innovations? Mr. Chairman. I look forward to the Minister's reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u31	Thank you, Mr. Schonis.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u32	It is indeed a painful subject to make a maiden speech, but you have done it in a beautiful and respectful way. Thank you. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments, because I see that your colleagues would like to congratulate you on your maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u33	We will continue with the debate on TNO's report on the Stint. Mr Schonis is all on his own now. Now you have to do it all by yourself, Mr. Schonis. I call Mr von Martels on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before I begin my story, I should like to congratulate my colleague, Mr Schonis, on his maiden speech and the wise words he has spoken. My input is as follows: those who do not know the past cannot understand the present, nor can they guide the future. Those are wise words that may be considered important in determining how to proceed with the Stint. The history of the Stint doesn't go far back, because it was only in 2012 that the vehicle was allowed on the road as a special moped for the first time. This was done under conditions, but the starting point was above all to offer innovative means of transport an opportunity. After the introduction, no one really wondered how to proceed with the special vehicles when it comes to the technical requirements for the vehicle, the steering, and the criteria for enforcement. With regard to road safety, we can say quietly that we are talking here about 'forgotten vehicles'. There has simply been no or insufficient attention to it. So my question to the Minister is: what makes this not happen? I personally noted the following in the general consultation on road safety in December 2017. I can quote myself now. Then I said: "In recent years we have seen a trend of ever-new vehicles on the road. Politics is always surprised and we must always think quickly about what to do with this new vehicle. There was the Segway and we had to think quickly about what the traffic rules should be. The speed pedelec also surprised us. The MP3, a bike with two front wheels that you don't need a motorcycle license for, surprised us. Now we see electronic bolder carts at daycare centres, where the leader stands and in the bin is a group of children. I don't know if the vehicle has a name yet," we know that by now, but then, in 2017, I didn't know that yet "and again we have to come up with the rules of the game quickly. My question to the Minister is how she intends to deal with this problem. We do not want to slow down innovation," I said at the time "but we do not want to be behind the facts in every innovation with the Hague rules. What does the Minister think of the idea of defining vehicle families"? I asked this question 14 months ago. Actually, I still don't have the answer. Why does the answer take so long? What's next? The CDA sees that the childcare sector, but also the postal sector, for example, needs a Stinty vehicle. We don't rule out the Stint or a similar vehicle getting on the road, but then something has to change. All problems contained in TNO's report must be resolved. The new Stint will then have to meet the requirements of the admission framework. But what measuring bar do we use? Can the Minister state what timetable she has in mind? When is there a new review framework for manufacturers to build on and enable entrepreneurs to undertake? This will not be the last time we talk about this subject, because there will be another investigation into the accident. That's now under the direction of the D.A.'s office. This is carried out by the Dutch Forensic Institute and the police. The OVV is also investigating how special vehicles such as Stint can be allowed to be allowed on public roads in the Netherlands. Finally, Mr President, I would like to draw attention to the role of the ILT. The ILT is the supervisor of the Ministry of IenW. Shouldn't the ILT have been monitoring the Stint better? Now it appears that the manufacturer has left several variants of the Stint on the road. Shouldn't the ILT have intervened then? We cannot escape the conclusion that an unsafe vehicle has hit the road. The fact that the rules were so flexible at the time never removes the responsibility of the Minister for the appearance of unsafe vehicles on the road. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u35	I have a question for my colleague from the CDA. When you follow all of TNO's recommendations, does he agree with me that we no longer speak of a Stint 2.0, but that we actually get a completely different vehicle in terms of propulsion, control and so on?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u36	Yeah, I agree. The Stint that will replace it will look different than the present Stint. I'm sure of it. But how? I don't know. I don't care. He has to comply with the rules we're all about to formulate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u37	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u38	Yeah, we're definitely gonna do that. That will take place around February, I understood from the Minister's answers. Does my colleague from the CDA agree with me that you should ask yourself whether it is desirable to carry children in a plastic container with only hip belts or whether we should have an alternative?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u39	"Does the CDA colleague agree with me," you say. But I also agreed with you on the previous question. Indeed, I agree with you that safe criteria must be laid down in order to assess whether this is still going to bring about a safe situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u40	I thought you were gonna take it easy tonight, Mr. Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u41	That's what I'm doing, Mr. Chairman. I'm pretty calm before I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u42	Mr Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u43	Very briefly. I will help the Minister by saying to Mr von Martels that the ILT was therefore not a competent authority for supervision and enforcement. That will be repeated by the Minister in due course. But my question is about the future. Does the CDA agree with the SP that all vehicles arriving on the road and now on the road should simply be clearly covered by certain types of supervision and enforcement?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u44	The answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u45	Thank you, Mr. Von Martels. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Stoffer, on behalf of the SGP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u46	Mr. Chairman. From this place it also suits me to congratulate Mr Schonis on his beautiful maiden speech. What appeals to me particularly is the balance you want to find between innovation and regulation. I'd say, "I like to move in together. We also have a common background with grandpas from the bicycle factory, and that was also innovation 100 years ago. So in that respect, we touch each other." Mr President, what a tragedy. A tragedy that cost four children their lives. They're poignant wounds that aren't really words for. We therefore sincerely wish the next of kin strength. It is also a drama that has put the spotlight on the admission of special mopeds. I would like to zoom in on that briefly. TNO is crystal clear, it has been said before: the Stint should never have been allowed. TNO indicates that the National Road Traffic Agency has even misjudged some of the criteria. How is that possible? How careful has the admission assessment been? I have the impression that the RDW has barely looked under the hood of the device and has been watching it on an afternoon-afternoon with a ticking list. My question is therefore: does the RDW have sufficient expertise to make this assessment? The SWOV was critical of the Stint on the road safety aspect at the time and yet the Minister approved it. What were the conditions laid down in the explanatory memorandum to the original legislative proposal and in the Vehicle Regulation then worth? The Minister will consider whether a practical test should be part of the admission procedure. But that's a long time ago, isn't it? For the admission of the Stint the vehicle was tested in practice by SWOV. My question is therefore whether such a practice test has not been carried out in the case of special mopeds other than motorcycles. Then there's supervision. No supervision after admission is a bad thing. The RDW has regularly pointed out the lack of conformity enforcement measures. A few sentences in the letter of approval don't make sense if no one looks at it any further. Why did successive rulers leave this behind? The Minister says that manufacturers of authorised special mopeds are obliged to report technical changes. But my question is exactly where it stands, because Article 98 stipulates that amendments, to the extent specified, must be approved separately. Both this article and the underlying scheme limit the obligation to sign signed vehicles. Where is the regulation that changes to authorised special mopeds should be reported? A question along the lines of the two previous points: what exactly is the responsibility of the ILT? When I read the regulations and the Chambers, I get the impression that her supervision is limited to marked vehicles. After the railway accident, after consulting the NVWA, which deals with product safety, the ILT concludes that it and not the NVWA, was responsible and is responsible for the supervision of the Stint. We find that vague. If necessary, will the Minister propose an amendment to the legislation to ensure that the ILT or any other serious supervisor is responsible for the supervision of authorised special mopeds? One final point, Mr President. Mr Dijkstra of the VVD also pointed out. I should also like to warn against a build-up of new rules. I read about a review of the testing framework, a mandatory quality system for manufacturers, consultation on safe routes, further conditions for use, such as driving training. But of course it must remain workable. Because the alternative, i.e. loose groups of children and a huge crowd at childcare sites, is soon less safe. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u47	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I look at the minister: does she need a short suspension, of about...?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u48	Fifteen minutes?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u49	Let's suspend until 9:10.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u50	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Like previous speakers, I begin by congratulating Mr Schonis on his maiden speech. It has rightly been said that this was very difficult. It's an emotionally charged subject. Then it is not easy to do so, but I agree with what other speakers have said that you have done so in a very dignified way. Mr. Chairman. Let me give you a brief overview of where we are right now. Several speakers have mentioned this. Mr von Martels actually said it most beautifully. I can't completely reproduce it. He said that you have to learn from the past and look back at it in order to make the right decisions for the future in the present. That is how I will build up my answers to you. I'll look back on the past first. Then I will continue with how we will proceed with the admissions framework in the future. What's going on now? I've also sent you the research on electromagnetic radiation. That investigation has been completed and it shows that potential interference cannot be ruled out 100%. This means that the Public Prosecutor's Office has been given all the information in the ongoing criminal investigation and will consider whether it will include this in the investigation or not. Some of you have also indicated that in such cases you prefer to have answers to all the questions yesterday. I would particularly like to thank the next of kin, who are now suffering so badly, that we can reply to everything very quickly and that the investigation into the situation will be completed tomorrow, so to speak. We don't know. We don't have any insight into it either. It's up to the state's attorney's office to fill that out properly. A number of other investigations cannot be completed entirely in time, or not as quickly as we would like. I would like to mention, for example, the investigation of the Security Research Council. He also wants to do it carefully, especially looking at the future: what lessons can and should we learn from this? Many of you have said this. We have no choice but to wait for those investigations. In the meantime, we have received the TNO research. Also, in the overall package of investigations, the research into the role of ILT is now complete. Well, I guess I'll just take the step to the past. You have all actually asked the question how it could have happened. Why was there no supervision, I say in the direction of Mr Laçin? Why wasn't ILT involved in this? That is the dilemma that we will often discuss in this debate, not only now but also in the future. At the time, everything was in place, some of you have also remembered this much more in terms of innovation. It started with the category of the segway. Everyone wanted to get them on the road, because it was a beautiful, new, innovative means of transport. This category of special mopeds has actually been created, with, in retrospect, a light regulatory regime. There was no monitoring and enforcement. As a result, everything that was subsequently notified as a new vehicle was checked against that same light framework. That's the origin we're dealing with right now. I shall try to answer all the questions that you have asked individually. I do not do that in the order of the speaker; it jumps a bit. For example, Mr Laçin said: how can 17 different types of special mopeds be allowed without question? That is because there was simply a framework, drawn up with the segway in mind, which then applied to each application as the sole review framework. There was no reason to refuse the vehicles tested under this light framework and which complied with it. However, the observation is in order that the Stint was the only one in this category in which it concerned more than one person, so not only the driver but several people. I do not know whether Mr Van Aalst, whom I see standing at the interrupting microphone, would like to ask that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u52	Were you finished with Mr Van Aalst's questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u53	I am going to say a lot more about this, but I do not know at what level of detail the question...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u54	Maybe it's good to do that first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u55	I'm fine with it. Among others, Mr Van Aalst and Mr Laçin, as well as others, asked whether the Ministry had deliberately ignored the conclusions of the RDW and SWOV because innovation was considered more important than road safety. How can we trust that this will not happen again in the future? You are right that the designation is given by me as a minister and that the RDW and SWOV are giving advice. In previous letters to the Chamber, I have already informed you that the RDW concluded in 2011 that the Stint met the technical requirements, except for the measurement. So I've already informed you about that before. But there was, all in all, for example looked at baking bikes with the same dimensions, which also drive around. So it wasn't seen as a big problem and was just accepted. SWOV wondered whether road safety could be compromised if the Stint were designated. They also mentioned the story that a person aged 16 years or over could transport children with them without any driving training. I have already informed your Chamber that I have not been able to find out any information about discussions or anything like that that might have been in the Ministry. However, the official question was asked whether the Stint could be designated as a special moped, because the vehicle was intended to transport children. This was possible within the review framework, because no requirements or restrictions were imposed on the number of passengers. The application was therefore granted at that time. Now, if you ask me whether we should keep it that way for the future, I would like to go directly with what many of the speakers have said, namely that we should look very closely at it in the future and consider whether it can be done with a negative opinion. Shouldn't we consider scaling it up? That can happen with negative advice. That is one of the reasons why I specifically asked the Security Research Council to look into this, and also to look at what has been going on in the admission procedure and what lessons we need to draw from it for the future. At the time, in 2011, together with the Chamber, we were looking for a balance, which we are actually looking for in a different way, between giving the benefits of innovative motor vehicles a chance and trying to comply with safety requirements and, I would like to say, Mr Smeulders, European vehicle requirements. I would also like to express my best wishes to Mrs Kröger; it is a pity that she cannot be here herself. Because there was no European regulation at the time, this particular category was conceived. I would like to point out to Mr Smeulders that it would also be a good thing for me if we could simply include these things in common European legislation. This Friday is the first official meeting in Brussels where this can be discussed. That's where I'd like to bring this up, too. This too has advantages even in terms of innovation, because a manufacturer of such a vehicle would have immediate access to the entire European market of 500 million Europeans. At the moment, we are the only ones who have this particular category, which means you can't go on the whole market with that. So I think it is worth considering in Europe the category they are thinking about now, namely the light electric vehicles, in the sense that we can't all see if we can make one good package of demands for them. Everyone except, I believe, the PVV wants to see how quickly we can fill the gap that has arisen now. The daycare centers would like another safe Stint on the road. So what can you overcome in a temporary review framework and what can be taken into account in the long term?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u56	I would like to come back to the issue of whether or not to ring the bell in 2011. I note that the Court expresses a certain confidence in this kind of innovative legislation which is not subject to supervision. The RDW says that the vehicle does not fit the size and SWOV says that the size is not ideal for moving on the road or on the bicycle path. I find it shocking, however, that this combination of opinions does not come back to the Chamber and is not said to be different in both cases. If we now look at TNO's assessment of those same specifications, that is so dramatic that I wonder why the Ministry has not decided to submit this to the Chamber, in the sense of: you have given us confidence but because this does not comply with the frameworks, we would like to know what you think of you as a Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u57	Then I can only repeat that in the spirit of time when there were no indications that such terrible things could happen. If someone at the ministry had foreseen this terrible drama at the time, then of course there would have been a very different view. Only, no one's ever been able to foresee this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u58	I think that is a very special response from the Minister. Then we come into a situation where we are going to set frameworks and we will not come back to deviate from the frameworks until after something has happened, because we could not have foreseen it. No, if something does not comply with the framework and we have not organised proper supervision for it as a Chamber, then I think the Ministry should come back to the Chamber to say: we cannot meet your framework and we ask you what you think and whether we should make an exception in this case. At that time, you shame the confidence of the Chamber, which gives you the opportunity to designate special vehicles. Subsequently, a special vehicle does not meet the requirements and the Ministry does not consider it necessary to return to the Chamber for the reason that nothing has happened yet. You're not gonna wait for an accident, are you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u59	The deviations in size, as observed by the RDW, were not considered to be of such a nature that that would be reason not to allow the Stint. Again, there are also other vehicles on the road that have the same width, for example baking bikes. So that wasn't seen as a reason. As regards SWOV, this has also been discussed with the manufacturer. It was judged at the time that it would be possible to deal with the trainings that were organized in this way. At the time, a light regime was also chosen, a so-called conformity regime, whereby the manufacturer is also responsible for the safety of his own product. Therefore, no surveillance was introduced at the time and this was not mentioned later in the case of other new authorisations. But I hear a number of you say that we must do this differently in the future. I will come back to that in a moment, because I agree with the Chamber. Mr Stoffer asked: what exactly was the responsibility of the ILT? The ILT has no supervisory role for the category of special mopeds. The task of the ILT is linked to a type-approval, and thus not to a license plate. The ILT has been designated solely as a regulator for the means of transport approved under the Road Traffic Act 1994. Special mopeds such as the Stint are not included. They will not therefore be approved, but they will be admitted to the road by an appointment from the Minister. So the ILT had no role in that. Then we've been asked about the electromagnetic radiation investigation. Mr Laçin has asked if I see another role for the Ministry there. Not at the moment, because it is really a part that is mainly monitoring how the accident itself could have happened. That's really up to the state's attorney's office. All the information we had, they got it, too. So it's up to the D.A. now: do they think it might be relevant to the commission investigation? Mr Stoffer asks: where is the regulation that changes to authorised special mopeds have to be reported? The obligation to notify is not explicitly regulated, but results from Article 20b of the Road Traffic Act 1994, which lays the basis for the designation of the special mopeds. That indication shall be made by type. This is also common in most cars with European type-approval. Inherent to this is that a new application is needed if a type is to be changed. The designation of the Stint states that all Stints placed on the market must continue to comply with the requirements assessed by the RDW and SWOV in terms of design, technical specifications and road safety. As from 1 January 2015, the Policy Rule shall apply to designation of special mopeds, which shall require the manufacturer to declare, at the time of application, that all copies of the type brought on the road are identical to the previous one assessed. Thus, that duty to report deviations has become even clearer. Then I'll stay with Mr. Stoffer for a while. He asks: is the expertise at the RDW in order? The RDW is very well written internationally, but if there are unclear requirements, the RDW cannot do everything about it. I believe that we must also be extremely keen on this in the new supervisory framework: it must be absolutely unambiguous requirements and the method of approval must be absolutely unambiguous, so that we do not put the RDW in a difficult position. The RDW itself thinks along with us in this respect. We're in good agreement on that. Then there is another question: what were those conditions actually worth in the explanatory memorandum to the original legislative proposal and in the Vehicle Regulation? In 2008, your Room was informed that it was decided not to require a driving licence, moped certificate or mandatory user training for this category of special mopeds. It was also decided that the minimum age for these vehicles would be 16 years. That was in order to ensure that the special mopeds regime is in line with the mopeds regime as far as possible. In this way, these principles have also been incorporated in the legislative proposal introducing that competence for the special moped. I have already written to your Chamber that the manufacturer was also mentioned at the time of the designation of the SWOV report. So those comments of the RDW and SWOV were taken into account, but they did not have such an impact that they led to the Stint not being designated as a special moped. Mr Van Aalst has asked whether I have been sleeping for a long time and what about liability. I cannot make any statements about liability here at the moment. This debate is not the right place for that either. However, I think it is my responsibility to start by drawing lessons for the future framework. The report of the Security Research Council will be important in this respect. In the end, should it come to that, it is of course up to the judge to decide on liability. That is what I can say about it right now. First of all, we need to wait for the OVV's research report.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u60	We do have to wait for those investigations from the OVV, but I was the PVV to do the following. In the previous debate, we noted that it was mainly the manufacturer, because he had made all kinds of changes without reporting them to the Ministry. On the basis of TNO's report, we note that the problems with the Stint are not so many things that have changed afterwards, but things that have been present in the vehicle since day one and have therefore been simply approved. If you notice that with each other, I think the story is that the RDW and the Ministry just approved it and you can't go so quickly pointing to the manufacturer: you're liable, because you've made changes. That's why I asked about liability. Does the Minister agree with me that a lot of things about the Stint that we have now found to be wrong were already in it from the prototype, as it has been offered for permission?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u61	There was, of course, a review of the framework as it was at the time. In any case, each producer is always responsible for the safety of his own product. I think it is important, in order to get a very clear picture, to wait for the OVV's research report, because it shows it most purely. Then we can see what else might have happened and if we can learn lessons from it for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u62	Finally, Mr Van Aalst.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u63	Yeah, finally. The black and white conclusion that was passed in the debate last time, namely that the manufacturer was blamed for making all kinds of strange changes, was a little too short. Does the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u64	I have never said in any debate, and I have not written that down either, that the manufacturer is to blame for everything. I never said that. The only thing we have noticed is that there are several variants of Stints and that no mention has been made of them per species of Stint. I think it is a good thing for others to map out exactly how this is done and that I am not getting ahead of it by making statements about it. Then I'll make a little bit of the bridge to how to proceed. Some of you are quite clear: we want a safe Stint on the road as soon as possible. Let me give you a little bit of a dilemma about which we will have to talk. I intend to send you a new temporary admissions framework in February. Why temporarily? You'll say, "Do it right at once." Of course that would be the best, but to offer the possibility to move forward quickly, you can't have everything in order in February. Let me give you one example. Suppose we decided together with you that there should be a driving licence requirement. Then there is a need for legislation. So we can't do that in the short term. There may also be recommendations from the OVV study that we need to deal with, but we do not know when we will be able to do so. Maybe there's something else coming out of the prosecution's investigation, and maybe we're still getting something to say in the context of European regulation. I am well aware that it is difficult, because I do not know which one of you said this; I believe it was Mr Schonis, you also want to provide an entrepreneur with certainty about the business in which he is going to invest. Yes, I'm just taking you there in the dilemma that you will of course have to meet the safety requirements of TNO. I believe that a whole series of concrete recommendations have been made, which we will all include in the admissions framework in February. As far as I am concerned, these will all be no-regret measures. Even if you are going to add other requirements in a long-term permanent admission framework, those TNO boxes should all come on green anyway. I think that's very clear for everyone. I think it is also very clear that we do want supervision with each other, so we can take those steps together. At the same time, we cannot and do not want to allow ourselves to settle everything at once, because then it will simply take too long. So as annoying as it is that you can't offer a manufacturer who's going to comply with that temporary authorisation framework the certainty that it's going to stay that way forever, I think that's the only way to get out of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u65	I have a question on this subject. If the temporary admission framework arrives in February and the producer of the Stint is prepared to take over those five or six TNO recommendations and to implement them as soon as possible, can we expect that Stint might be able to get back on the road quickly under that temporary admission framework?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u66	It is precisely the intention of this temporary admission framework that we offer the possibilities for this and that, in the meantime, we can also offer a clear handle to other innovative vehicles that are reporting, so that we do not have a very long stand still and we can move forward as quickly as possible. I think it was you, Mr von Martels, or Mr von Martels, I don't know exactly who said: you have to distinguish between transporting one or more persons and transporting, for example, mail. I think we can take that into the temporary admissions framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u67	That's good to hear, because the daycare centers really want to work with the Stint again. I would therefore particularly like to ask the Minister, for example, to consult with the producer of the Stint as soon as possible in order to make this possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u68	I shall perhaps mention a few things that we would like to include in that temporary admission framework. Those are the recommendations of the RIP study, which is the distinction between different types of transport, but I would also like to introduce a form of product monitoring, at least with an annual visit and samples. Some of you have asked for that too. I would also like to point out that manufacturers have to pass on verification-related changes and that vehicles must be identical to what was initially inspected, so-called conformity. I would also like to make a risk assessment mandatory in the application. That risk assessment shall mean that the manufacturer shall make clear which requirements are not met and which compensatory measures shall achieve the same level of safety. I think it is also important that we remove the ambiguity for manufacturers, so that they know exactly what type of changes they should or should not report in the production process. I therefore believe that, if I mention it in technical terms, we should also clarify the elements which are subject to inspection in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u69	Although security is always paramount, there are also commercial interests. The minister says she'll be returning to the temporary admissions framework in February. Is that in two weeks or six weeks? I am asking this question because it is certainly important for entrepreneurs to know where they stand. So the sooner that clarity is provided, the better it is. I would therefore ask the Minister to take that decision as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u70	That is being worked with man and power, precisely to do it as quickly as possible. It's soon February. I can't tell you exactly until the week, but it's being worked very hard. I promise you it will be February at least. Mr Smeulders asked whether a driving licence should be compulsory for the special mopeds. A driving licence, a compulsory user training or something like that can certainly be considered. I would therefore like to return to the proposal for the new admission procedure. If that is in the sphere of a driving licence, it may be that the OVV makes recommendations for this, then I will take it with me in the permanent framework and not now in the temporary framework. We cannot achieve a legislative process that quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u71	I have a question about that. Suppose we decide a moped license is enough. Should this go through the entire legislative process or can this category be added to it? Maybe that's how we can speed things up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u72	No, it doesn't matter what kind of driver's license. If we add a driving licence obligation to this framework, we must go through a legislative process for that. Everything we can take with us without long journeys, we will take with us in the temporary framework, precisely in order to make it as complete as possible. Of course, we cannot wait endlessly for a number of things, such as recommendations that may come from the OVV report or from the commissioning investigation. We'll have to weigh them later. The same applies to the European component that you asked for. Of course, we could never have arranged that in February.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u73	Then there's a follow-up question about that. I can imagine that on top of that temporary framework agreements will be made with the childcare organisations, for example, that they will train their staff or provide information if they wish to use the new Stints. So you wouldn't legally regulate it, but you could possibly do it by means of a covenant or by appointment in a different way. I'll ask the Minister through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u74	We are really going to try to implement all the recommendations that have already been made in the most pragmatic way possible. Once again, anything we can do now in a different way than through a legal process, we will certainly not fail to do so. But if the Chamber decides that it wants a driving licence, let me give you an example: you can also think of all the other things, then of course we should simply go through the appropriate procedures. I just don't want to wait for that with the temporary admissions framework. It is precisely in order to keep pace that I want to put in February what we can then get arranged.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u75	It is, of course, very good to hear that the Minister wants to keep up the momentum and that she says that she can implement a number of conformity requirements, for example with a manual. It's already happened once. I've been in the pieces of that time. In that I saw a recommendation from the RDW on segways and trikes: when you are 16 years old, you can already use that thing very hard; dear producer, add a good instruction manual with the warning that you should not hit the accelerator too hard when you are 16 years old. I have already mentioned this example. You said at the time: we have never been able to monitor it again. I am very happy to hear you say that you are going to implement this very quickly, but I hope you will also say that you are going to step up supervision on this kind of thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u76	With regard to the temporary admission framework, we will detail to the Chamber that we are also trying to regulate supervision as concretely as possible. I have just spoken about the samples and the clearer definition of reporting obligations. What elements should or should not be reported in the event of a change? How is this monitored? This will be dealt with as much as possible in the new framework in February. I would also like to say once again that it is an essential distinction whether you are driving around in mail or with children. We will also make that distinction clear in the temporary framework. Mr Smeulders asked whether more stringent requirements should not have been applied in advance to passenger transport. I'm gonna take this with me in the new framework. I also asked the RDW for advice on it. I expect that advice very soon. It also discusses how, at least in the technical sense, we could make a distinction in this respect. The RDW opinion comes in time for us to take it with us in February. Mr von Martens introduced the term "vehicle families." He asked how I look at its introduction. I think that we will have to discuss the clustering of vehicles in categories or families, as he calls it, both in terms of admission and at the place on the road, because there are more discussions in the Chamber in this context. They are very much linked to what the mass of a vehicle is, the speed and what it does to the place on the road. We will also look at this in a broader sense. We also pay attention to the distinction between passenger transport, private transport and freight transport. Is the Minister in consultation with the manufacturer? There has been contact with the manufacturer to inform him of the fact that we had received the TNO report and that, as a result, I would take a decision on the designation of the Stint. Afterwards, the manufacturer contacted again. Before Christmas, a discussion took place between him and the Ministry about the trial. I haven't heard any statements from the manufacturer about the modifications of the Stint. I don't know what's going on with that. It has also been asked whether the opinions of SWOV and the RDW drawn up from the perspective of road safety and other interests of innovation and accessibility are adequately taken into account. Of course, that is not a black and white issue, because there are dilemmas. I think that everyone has said it in different terms: we should not go through with a reflex, which makes your innovation impossible at all, for example by imposing excessive technical admission requirements. I hope to make a good proposal to the Chamber in February, which will not go far enough, but which will hopefully have the right balance. How do I look at the proposals that the interest groups in the childcare sector have sent to the Lower House? Is there anything else on the previous point?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u77	I would ask the Minister to finish her sentence on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u78	I received a copy of a letter from the sector. I share the spirit of it. I welcome the constructive attitude of the sector and the good discussions that have taken place. I will see with them whether the suggestions they make can help to make transport with the Stint safer. The sector is also proposing that self-regulation should also be improved, for example in the area of safe route choices and driver driving requirements. That has just been suggested. It doesn't have to be all in legislation. It can also help if a sector takes initiatives on its own. SWOV also considers that these two elements could contribute to road safety. I have already promised the Chamber that, within the framework of the Road Safety Strategy Plan, I will also pay particular attention to road safety around schools. Mrs Kröger has also tabled motions on this in the past. With regard to the proposed helmet obligation, I will look into the extent to which this can have added value. I shall come back to the proposal for a longer-term adjustment of the admission framework. This is something that, in turn, requires legislative and regulatory adjustment. A helmet duty would involve an AMvB and a driving licence over the legal level. Mr Laçin also asks if I have an idea of the extra transport costs. The sector has presented an overall picture of the additional transport costs to be incurred by daycare organisations. A distinction has been made between adjustments to the Stint and additional costs for replacement transport. According to the sector, this last item is about €100 per Stint per week. I have not yet received any signals that the disappearance of the Stint has led to tariff changes. Childcare organisations are free to choose the mode of transport themselves. I don't see a role for our ministry there. By the way, not every childcare organisation has a Stint. Mr Laçin also asked how many reports of incidents of daycare facilities have been received. The following has been reported to the SZW Inspection in the light of arbo. Between 2015 and 2018, eight road accidents and seven other incidents were reported. The incidents were in most cases a driver who fell off the vehicle and injured a single. The numbers say nothing about the seriousness of the incidents. So these are all reports in the light of arbo. Those were the questions I still had from Mr Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u79	Then I'll have to get everything back, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u80	You're very good at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u81	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I wanted to ask a question about the TNO investigation. To my knowledge, TNO carried out the research on the basis of certain ISO standards. Those were not the standards tested by RDW and SWOV at the time. TNO therefore made a completely different assessment. Can the Minister confirm this and explain to us where that difference comes from? Why did TNO test on other points than at the time, in 2011, was requested under the category "special mopeds'? Should all the other special mopeds, i.e. those 16 other mopeds, also comply with the six points TNO tested on? That's my logical follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u82	If Mr Laçin agrees, I will come back to that in second term and detail. Exactly how it is with that ISO certification, I don't have one-two-three on hand. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u83	Thank you. Let us now move on to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Van Aalst first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u84	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was a little confused by the Minister's last comment, because I literally asked that question about ISO standards in the first place. How is it possible that TNO had different findings than the RDW at the time? Did that have anything to do with the use of standards? Well, we're probably gonna get the answer in second term. Mr. Chairman. When we look back before we can look forward, I always get the feeling that the answers remain a little shadowy. I welcome the remark that it is wise that we should change the way things are organised. I am particularly looking forward to receiving the temporary review framework from the Minister in February. That is also why we, the PVV, are not now tabling any motions, because that would anticipate that temporary review framework. That's what we're waiting for. It is a sad observation that this accident has made this possible. For the future, we hope for the promised recovery.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u85	Thank you, Mr. Van Aalst. I now give the floor to Mr Laçin on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u86	Mr. Chairman. I have two motions and two more comments. I welcome the commitment that we will receive the temporary admission framework in February. I would ask the Minister to draw up a timeline immediately, if that is possible, to see, for example, when structural adjustment can be achieved and what that route looks like, so that we as a Chamber, as well as everyone who benefits from it, have a timeline and we know what to expect. The second point is childcare and safe routes. It is true that the Minister has already made a commitment on this matter to Mrs Kröger. Next week we have an AO Strategic Road Safety Plan. Then I'll come back to it. I will not now table a motion on that point. Then there are the two motions, which are both about the legal anchoring and the interim period of supervision and enforcement. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is no legally anchored supervision and enforcement for the category of special mopeds;]] [[Whereas this is highly undesirable in the context of road safety;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with a proposal for the legal anchoring of supervision and enforcement of the category of special mopeds as soon as possible after new legal authorisation frameworks have been established,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the new authorisation framework for special mopeds will soon be presented;]] [[noting that it has not yet organised the monitoring and enforcement of this category;]] [[Whereas the legal anchoring of supervision and enforcement is a long process while several parties, including the childcare sector, also advocate speed;]] [[calls on the Government to examine with inspection services and other relevant parties how monitoring and enforcement can be secured until legal anchoring,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Laçin and Mr Stoffer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29398-654]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Laçin. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29398-655]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Minister for her reply. I think we all agree that it is undesirable that a motorized boulder cart full of toddlers has been rated as a special moped. That is not a good example of deregulation, and we must learn from each other. So that's really gotta be better. We therefore welcome the Minister's commitment that the new temporary review framework will come in February. I do have a question about this, which is in particular about the final review framework. The Minister has indicated that she is in favour of European regulation. The Minister knows Europe and the decision-making process there much better than I do. I wonder if the Minister will be able to give an insight into the period in which it expects this to be real. If we have to reach agreement with all the Member States, it may take a little longer. I have a motion on the driving skills of the driver of, for example, a Stint. We have just had a debate on this. We think it is very important to arrange this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is a particular responsibility on the driver of a vehicle which carries persons, or which is large, heavy and fast enough to cause serious injury to other road users;]] [[noting that no requirement is now imposed on the theoretical or practical driving power of a driver of special mopeds;]] [[calls on the Government to develop a mandatory driving test for drivers of special mopeds transporting persons or cargo,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Smeulders and Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29398-656]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u88	Mr President, thank you. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. On one point, I still have a follow-up question. The Minister is actually saying that she is not currently in any further discussion with the manufacturer of the Stint. Is it then, if that review framework is in place in February, that it would be nice if that new review framework would allow the Stints who are now on the side of the road to be used again, if they were to be ready to discuss this new review framework with this manufacturer as soon as possible, so that we can proceed with it as soon as possible? In that light also a motion on behalf of my party and a number of others. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is uncertainty about the re-introducing of the Stint on the public road;]] [[Whereas the investigation carried out by TNO has shown that the Stint can be put back into operation safely after a number of technical adjustments have been made;]] [[noting that entrepreneurs and the childcare sector are no longer able to make use of the Stint and are faced with a transport problem;]] [[Whereas an authorisation framework for special mopeds is under development;]] [[calls on the Government to provide a future perspective as soon as possible that, with at least the technical adjustments proposed by TNO and the admission framework, Stint can safely take the public road,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Schonis, Mr von Martels and Mr Stoffer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29398-657]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u89	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For my part, no motions, but three more questions to the Minister. The first concerns the standard applied by TNO in the investigation in 2018. This is not the same standard as the standard used in the 2011 authorisation. To what extent is that a problem? Secondly, I would like to point out to the Minister that Article 2 of the ILT's institutional decision states that the ILT is also responsible for giving signals on compliance with laws and regulations that may relate to desirable legislative changes. That ILT could and should have reported this. I'd like a response to that. And then there's the helmet duty. Last week I tabled a motion to introduce a helmet duty for the moustache bike. Now the Minister himself has taken the word 'helmet duty' in his mouth. I wonder whether the Minister will give the same answer: should a very long-term investigation be carried out before it can be introduced? That's what I'm curious about. Because if you're consistent, you should be. I would not like to impose this as a requirement in the temporary admission framework. Let's talk about the vehicle families. I did use that word, but that was a figment of the ANWB at the time, in 2017, so honor who deserves it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u90	Thank you, Mr. Von Martels. Finally, Mr Stoffer on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u91	Mr. Chairman. I too thank the Minister for the answers. I think that we had a very dignified and nice debate together on the rather nasty occasion for this debate. I have one motion and it reads as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to amend legislation in such a way that clearly a supervisor is responsible for the supervision of special mopeds and that in any event a notification is required in the case of substantial technical changes,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Stoffer, Mr Schonis, Mr Laçin, Mr Remco Dijkstra, Mr von Martels, Mr Van Aalst and Mr Smeulders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29398-658]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u92	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u93	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will deal first with a number of questions and then I will pass the motions. Mr Laçin asked if we could indicate a timeline for the permanent admission framework. I cannot say exactly that at the moment because, of course, I do not yet know what recommendations the OVV will make in its report. But if there are elements in it that require legislation, you also know that it will soon take one and a half to two years to bring it to an end, even if we do it quickly. I shall also look at Mr Smeulders. This is also about the time a legislative process takes on average in Europe. But I have to make the point that, of course, we will have elections in Europe in May. And it is probably already optimistic to think that in December we will have a new European Commission which, as you know, only has the right of initiative for that legislation. So we can put an extra year on top of the average time for such a legislative process. I think that we should try to harmonise it as much as possible in Europe and try to achieve as much clarity as possible. But that will take another year. So I don't think we're gonna get away from taking our own steps in the Netherlands anyway. But it can of course be very helpful if we can perhaps set the standard for Europe, so to speak. That, of course, could also be a good goal. You want to return to the safe routes at the Strategic Road Safety Plan. I'd be fine with that. Meanwhile, both SWOV and childcare organisations are already in common discussion: what improvements can we make there? Mr Schonis asked whether the manufacturer could be included in the development of that temporary framework. I'd be happy to tell him. I think that's also a normal way of dealing with each other. We have also always said that he will be taken into account in all new developments. In the first period, questions about the standard remained. Why did TNO use ISO standard 26262 and when was that standard? TNO has, of course, really done a product analysis and has used a specific part of that ISO standard 26262 as the basis for that safety analysis. The part of that ISO standard used by TNO describes the methodology for safety analysis. It's useful for all vehicles. That standard defines the requirements for functional safety of electrical and electronic systems of road vehicles. This ISO standard was published on 11 November 2011, and a new version of the standard was published in December 2018. RDW simply based itself on the framework as it had been established. I hope I have given you an answer to that in sufficient detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u94	Of course, that's where the question came from. Could it be that different ways have been tested and that is why there are now all kinds of differences as to why the RDW has not made certain observations and TNO is doing them now? Could that have to do with the standardisation and the review as it has done?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u95	Well, it has a completely different basis and it's been a completely different investigation. If there had been a different framework, the RDW would have tested differently at the time. The RDW has complied with the existing frameworks at that time and has also been examined in this way. And TNO, of course, has received the specific question: is this product safe? TNO has been asked so to speak: turn this product inside out. But those demands were not on the table for the RDW at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u96	Finally, Mr. Van Aalst.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u97	Yes, Chairman, finally. I do find it special, because TNO has indeed tested whether the product is safe. I hope RDW has also checked whether the product is safe. TNO notes this now, but I hope the RDW has done the same tests, because it demands quite a lot. Is the thing pilotable? Can it tilt? Are the passenger, the driver, etc. safe? I hope, however, that the RDW has taken that test, especially with regard to this kind of innovative legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u98	I can only repeat that the RDW has complied with the framework as it was then and has done so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u99	According to the information I have, the ISO standard used by TNO is actually intended for cars. Can the Minister confirm or disprove that? 'Cause I'd think it was a really weird thing to apply a standard for cars to the Stint in this case. It is clear that the ISO standard used in 2011 has not been used. Then the question is: isn't it strange that we now turn red six times, that we take the Stint off the road on the basis of an investigation by the RDW that didn't take place in 2011 because it wasn't there then, and that the Stint couldn't meet that at all? So we say eight years later: you don't meet these points, so you have to get off the road, while the special moped didn't ask for that in 2011 at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u100	Your first question is: wasn't it actually for a car? As I mentioned earlier, the part of the ISO standard used by TNO describes the methodology of a safety analysis. It's useful for all vehicles. So it's not specifically aimed at a car. It is a general safety analysis method, which can be used for all vehicles.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u101	Yes. The motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u102	Yes, I will come to the motions, first of all the Laçin/Stoffer motion in part No. 654.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u103	I asked a second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u104	That's the disadvantage of asking too many questions in a row. Would you like to repeat the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u105	Would you like to repeat that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u106	Yeah, that's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u107	Does the Minister not think it is strange that we should definitely take the Stint off the road with six reds in this form, while in 2011 he did comply with the special moped standards in force at the time?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u108	However, as we have established with each other, this is due to the fact that in 2011 there were not so specific aspects of safety. There's a reason they didn't have surveillance at the time. The moment there's such a terrible accident, you're gonna take a look at it, because everyone wants to stop this from ever happening again. Then you'll look at it differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u109	Mr von Martels had asked three questions, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u110	Yes, Mr. Chairman, indeed. I had asked a number of questions, three questions, which I have not yet received an answer to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u111	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u112	You'll come back to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u113	Yes, but I can do it first, Mr. Chairman. Let's see. I have just answered the question about the standard. The ILT signals. That is because ILT had no role to play and no signals have been received from ILT that there could be something wrong with this category. ILT simply didn't have a role. I very much agree with Mr Laçin's motion that we should give them a role, that there should be supervision. Mr von Martels has also asked the question about helmet duty: Minister, is this going to be a long-term investigation? I have never said, even in the other discussion on helmet duty, that it is going to be a long-term investigation. I have indicated that, with every new legislation you introduce, you always have to do a good impact assessment and always see what effect it has. Whether it's this case or the moustache bike, in both cases you have to look at what the helmet duty does. Does it have displacement effects on road safety and so on? But that doesn't necessarily have to be very long, I'll give Mr Von Martels.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u114	I am reassured by the latter. But my question was also about the ILT. In doing so, the Minister and I differ on the role that the ILT could have taken on the basis of Article 2 which I have just read out. The ILT had a role to play. But I don't think we're gonna get out of that tonight. That really is a difference of opinion and understanding. But maybe I can get an explanation from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u115	The ILT comes up with alerts when, in daily practice, it encounters special things in those fields where it supervises and where it has a role. We always report those alerts to the Chamber. But on a field where you have no role whatsoever and where no accidents or special situations have been reported, except Arbo cases, which have been reported to the Inspection SZW, I don't see where the ILT should have taken that role.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u116	Mr Van Aalst, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u117	Yes, very briefly. However, I would like to come back to the story of the frameworks and the ISO standard. I have here the research of SWOV and how it was handled in 2011. The exact same questions and reviews will pass, as has now been done by TNO. How can it be that TNO and RDW indicated in 2011 that it is safe in principle, except for those two comments, and that TNO is now presenting a destructive report with exactly the same points? Whether we are talking about the helmet duty, the place on the road, the speed limit, everything is in the SWOV report and in the TNO report. How can there be a world of difference in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u118	I am very repeating when I say that there was a very different view at that time. How to do this in the context of the admissions framework, and what lessons we should learn from the past, in future, I need the independent investigation of the Research Council on Security. As always, they will focus on the lessons that can be drawn from this. But they won't fail to report anything you know about the OVV's things that didn't go well. That is why I think it is so important that the OVV is doing this research.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u119	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u120	I do hope that the OVV will give us clarity, because the Minister is not going to give us that tonight. I simply note that SWOV and the RDW tested the same things in 2011 as TNO did now and that they come to totally different insights, which I still find special. That has nothing to do with frameworks. One of them just didn't do his job right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u121	I'm not ready for that conclusion. I indicated that we can see that there was room for differences of interpretation. That is one of the things that we explicitly want to avoid in the new admission framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u122	The motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u123	Then the motions, yes. I'll start with the motion in part No. 654 by Mr Laçin, to which I have already referred implicitly. The motion calls on the government to come forward with a proposal for the legal anchoring of supervision and enforcement in this category as soon as possible after the new legal authorisation frameworks have been drawn up. I can give full judgment on that, Room. I think this is an important motion. In the motion in part No. 655 the government is invited to consider, in the meantime, with all relevant parties how supervision and enforcement can be secured until the time of that legal anchoring. There too, we have opportunities to fill in this in a good way. So that motion I can give judgment room. Then the motion to part No. Mr Smeulders. It calls on the government to develop mandatory driving training. I would actually ask him to hold that motion until I come up with that framework in February. Because then I can make the whole assessment: we go to a driving licence or to a driving licence training, and how do we do that? I think it would be good to discuss this widely with the childcare sector and SWOV. I would therefore ask you to hold the motion for a resolution. Then you can look at the framework that we send to the Chamber and see if you can see it properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u124	Yes. Mr Smeulders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u125	We are prepared to do so. I hope the Minister will take this signal with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u126	At the request of Mr Smeulders, I propose his motion (29398, No. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u127	Then I come to the motion on part No. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). It invites the government "to provide a future perspective as soon as possible that, with at least the technical adjustments requested by TNO and the admission framework, the Stint can safely take the public road." I think that's a broad feeling in your room. I would also like to give a ruling on this Chamber. The same applies to the last motion, in part No. 658, by Mr Stoffer, who calls for legislation to be adapted to ensure that there is clearly a supervisory authority responsible for supervision and that there is at least a reporting obligation in the event of substantial technical changes. I understand very well that your Chamber wishes to emphasise this. For that reason, I also give this motion judgment Chamber. They were, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u128	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-26.u129	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I would like to thank the Minister, the Members of Parliament, the staff and the people in the public gallery.
