ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u1	The next item is the letter from the Government 31936 (I) implementing the National Coordination Scheme for the Herwijnen military radar station project. On 7 June 2019, the Secretary of State for Defence sent the aforementioned decision implementing the State Coordination Scheme to both Chambers of the States General in accordance with Article 3.35, ninth paragraph, of the Regional Planning Act. I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Defence to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u2	I would draw Members' attention to the fact that five Members will make their maiden speech during this debate. I'll ring a bell before every maiden speech. It is used here not to interrupt during the maiden speech. After each maiden speech I will address the speaker briefly and I will suspend the sitting briefly after the last maiden speech, in this case after Mr Rietkerk's speech, for congratulations. I give the floor to Mr Dessing. Since it's Mr. Dessing's maiden speech, I'm going to make a long bell signal now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Herwijnen, a place in the Netherlands of which I had never heard until 1990. In that year I joined the National Aviation Service where I started with theory lessons in preparation for my training as assistant air traffic controller. During one of these lessons I was taught that the main radar station used by air traffic control at the time had been located in Herwijnen since 1971. This was due to the favourable central location and the best radar coverage to cover the entire airspace of the Netherlands. Today, 29 years later, I stand here in the First Chamber and deal with the letter from the Secretary of State for Defence. It announces the decision to apply the National Coordination Scheme for the project military radar station Herwijnen. Mr. Chairman. According to the Group of the Forum for Democracy, the run-up to this decision, the route followed and the communication about this decision do not deserve a beauty prize. These are questions that live there about the effect of cumulative radiation after placement of the new defence radar. It is located at the location of the former civil aviation radar near the current weather radar. As a result, there is a fear that accumulation of radiation from both radar sources together will rise above an acceptable standard. To date, there has been insufficient communication to residents about how Defense will ensure that this standard is not exceeded. There are also questions about possible alternative locations for this new radar not sufficiently clear and not picked up in time. The confidence of local residents in a good participation process has increased in this respect. Mr. Chairman. The National Coordination Scheme is a heavy instrument that should not be used lightly, other than in situations where there is no other option. A careful participation and information process is part of this scheme, as well as research into public health impacts and thorough research into the intended location and possible alternative locations. Mr. Chairman. Despite the fact that Defence acquired the intended location of the former Air Traffic Control radar in the Netherlands in 2006, which caused some of the unrest among residents, we see that the Secretary of State has now taken good steps to explain and justify her choice of the intended location to the Chamber. Partly because of this and, as indicated earlier, because of the favourable central location of the intended location, the Group of the Forum for Democracy believes that the intended location for the new military radar station in Herwijnen is a good choice. But more importantly, the need for rapid replacement of the current highly outdated radar in New Milligen requires careful urgency and is a matter of national importance, which alone is sufficient reason for setting up a state coordination scheme. The Group of the Forum for Democracy attaches great importance to an adequate defence of our national airspace and does not want to run the risk of further delay unnecessarily endangering our national security. However, we would like to ask the Secretary of State if she can promise that measurements will be carried out in the application of the National Coordination Scheme to ensure that the actual cumulative radiation level after the installation of the Defence Radar will not exceed the maximum radiation values. Can the Secretary of State also remove the uncertainty recently created as to the alleged capacity of the intended radar, which would be below 100 kilowatts, in relation to the expected cumulative radiation level? Mr. Chairman. As we believe that the state coordination system contains all the necessary elements for a careful consideration of this decision, assuming that the State Secretary will apply this scheme carefully, also assuming that the actual radiation level will remain below the maximum permitted value and that it will communicate well with residents about this scheme, our group will therefore, in view of the safety importance, agree to this proposed decision under the conditions set out above. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr. Dessing. Congratulations on your maiden speech. Allow me to outline some of your background. You studied mathematics at the University of Amsterdam for a short time, but decided to use that logical insight in a different way, namely as an air traffic controller. Since 1990 you have been working at Schiphol Airport. You're an assistant air traffic controller, planning outbound flights. In addition, you have been an on-the-job training instructor at Air Traffic Control Netherlands for a long time. Because of this work you have been additional trained in human safety behaviour and psychology at Leiden University and in 2016 you took a course in Cogmed Coach. I hope I speak out well with the aim of improving memory. You joined the Forum for Democracy because of the party's courage, strength and dynamism, you told us in an introductory interview. Soon you were asked if you were interested in becoming active in provincial politics. So you became the leader of the Provincial State elections in North Holland earlier this year. At the same time, you were a candidate for the First Chamber on behalf of the Forum for Democracy. In the campaign for the Provincial State Elections, you recorded a video in which you advocated a national airport at sea, in order to opt for innovation, economic growth and decisiveness. A topical issue, both at national and provincial and local level, on which we will hear a lot in any case. When you became the third party in the Provincial States of North Holland as a newcomer, you said: "I had to get used to it at first, because what kind of separate biotope had I come into." I imagine that observation can also apply to the Supreme Court. Once again, welcome and we look forward to your further input. Thank you. I would have now given the floor to Mr Janssen, if it were not for Mr Janssen to be stuck in traffic. So it's gonna be his turn later. I am happy to give the floor to Mr Koole.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing whether the First Chamber can agree to the national coordination system, which has already been mentioned, in view of a national interest, the safety of the Netherlands, in fact set aside local democracy. After all, the municipality of West Betuwe is against the installation of military radar in Herwijnen. As a PvdA group, we are of course in favour of as much security as possible for the Netherlands and do not dispute the need for good radar detection. As a Chamber, we do not judge the technical aspects of the necessary radar detection. We do consider whether the national security interest justifies setting aside local democracy in this case. Before you do that, there must be serious reasons for our group and great care must have been taken, everything must have been done to inform the local population and listen to their arguments. It is not for nothing that a strong guarantee is required for the use of the national coordination system, namely the agreement of both Chambers of the States-General. Unfortunately, we have to note with the Secretary of State that communication with the inhabitants of the municipality of West Betuwe, in particular those of Herwijnen, does not deserve a beauty prize, to say it with an understatement. In the meantime, the Ministry has started two investigations: one on the cumulative effects of radiation from different radars, and the other on possible alternative locations. These are 'in full swing' according to the letter from the Secretary of State dated 22 November last. The investigation of alternative locations is likely to be completed in mid-December, i.e. in a week and a half, according to the same letter. The Labour Party's group assumes that both investigations meet the highest standards of care. Does the Secretary of State agree with that and, if so, what does that show? If that were not the case, the inhabitants would be told a pacifier, and I cannot imagine that the government would want that. Does the government also take into account the concerns of the inhabitants of Herwijnen in these investigations, as there are: whether the military radar has a lower power than 100 kW, whether the environmental category of 3.2, in which the radar is placed, is the right one and whether a simultaneous peak load of the KNMI radar and the Defence radar is taken into account in the research on accumulation of radiation, combined with other radiation from, among other things, the navigation radar on the Waal? Can the Secretary of State confirm that these and other concerns of the residents are seriously addressed in these investigations? If the Secretary of State agrees with me that both investigations now under way must meet the highest standards of care, can the Secretary of State confirm that these investigations are therefore also possible without first implementing the State Coordination Regulation, and that, therefore, invoking the State Coordination Regulation is not necessary to ensure the care of both investigations? Mr. Chairman. In order to invoke a national security interest in this case, that of the possible new military radar in Herwijnen, the state coordination regime, a general statement that the Netherlands needs good radar detection and that therefore a national security interest is at stake is not sufficient. Once again, we also consider the need for good radar detection to be a major national safety concern, but it has not yet been said that this radar can only be placed in Herwijnen. Only if a serious and careful investigation into different alternative locations would make it compelling that Herwijnen is the only or by far the best location for the new radar, and the municipality would also oppose placement, will the National Coordination Regulation be called into question. Moreover, all requirements for a healthy living environment must also be met. Such a serious and careful investigation of the different locations has not taken place in the period 2012-2014. Does the Secretary of State agree? In the letter of 22 November, the Gilze-Rijen site was rejected because the northwest part of the Randstad would not be properly covered. My group understands from this that the entire Dutch territory must be covered as completely as possible by military radar detection, I ask the Secretary of State. If that is the case, would it be willing to send to the Chamber the maps showing this? Because in the letter of 22 November, which contains tickets that have been sent, only the detection capacity at low altitude is included in three places: New Mills, Herwijnen and Gilze-Rijen. The radar detection area in Wier, in Friesland, is not included. I assume that radar covers the whole of the North Netherlands. Is that right? But in all the tickets delivered in the letter of 22 November, an important part of the province of Zeeland is outside the detection area. If that part is not included in the detection capacity at low altitude of military radars, I ask the Secretary of State. If that's the case, is that less bad than the northwest part of the Randstad that's outside? Because the latter is seen as an important reason why the radar should be placed in Herwijnen. Mr. Chairman. The letter of 22 November also talks about wind farms in the province of Flevoland, the construction of which cannot continue if the radar would remain in Nieuw-Miligen. Does this mean that nowhere can be built in the areas projected on the tickets provided, does my group ask the Secretary of State, even in the area of detection covered by the radar in Wier? If the Dutch territory, including the Dutch territorial waters, should fall under low altitude military radar detection due to its national security interest, what about the construction of wind energy parks in that area? Are they not interfering with radar detection? Finally. If the Secretary of State states that the investigation into alternative sites is most likely to be completed in mid-December, is it not obvious to wait for the results before implementing the National Coordination Scheme? This is important for a careful weighing process in this Chamber, and it is certainly important for the restoration of confidence among the people of Herwijnen. It is not a waste of time, because the results will also have to be awaited within the national coordination system. Can the Secretary of State confirm that, if the Chamber waits for the results of the investigation to be completed before the Chamber decides on approval of the State Coordination Regulation, it will not result in any significant delay? National security is of great importance, but so are the people in Rewines and local democracy in West Betuwe. My group therefore looks forward to the answers of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u6	Thank you, Mr Koole. I am happy to give the floor to Mr Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u7	First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Dessing on his maiden speech and, in advance of a successful outcome, on which I trust, also to colleagues Huizinga, De Vries, Arbouw and Rietkerk. Well, I guess we're done with that. Mr. Chairman. Ceci n'est pas une pipe. You know the famous caption of René Magritte in his painting La trahison des images. A beautiful picture of a pipe, which according to Magritte commits treason, because the work pretends to be a pipe, but that is not of course. The image is not reality. By accurately sketching that reality, the surrealist painter pretends there is a pipe, which in reality is not there. If Magritte were to live today, the somewhat boring title of today's debate would undoubtedly have given rise to a new painting. Ceci n'est pas... This is not a decision, at least not a careful and convincing decision. This is an image on the wall of what could actually have been a good decision. The spectators, the inhabitants of Herwijnen first, see these months a surrealist film passing by. Where did it go wrong? And how can we bring this to a successful conclusion? These questions are at the heart of this debate for my group. The question isn't whether we need a new radar. That seems to be sufficiently demonstrated. I would also urge the Secretary of State not to repeat her speaking time, because she has said that often enough and there is no discussion about that either. By repeating that, she merely diverts attention from where the questions lie. As far as my group is concerned today, neither is the question of whether the radar in Herwijnen, in addition to an already existing radar and the large number of shipping traffic, does there occur an unacceptable accumulation of risks. That is a legitimate and very important question for the inhabitants, and the investigation of this accumulation will have to be a prominent place in the decision-making process, even if that process comes under government control by applying the state coordination regime. The question today is whether the residents can still trust the government. And that has everything to do with the way in which the process has gone and with the way in which the choice for the Rewinning site has been made and with the way in which local citizens and democracy feel treated. I dare say that in a careful and transparent process, the government would not have had to pull out the means of the national coordination system at all. First of all, I will deal with the choice of location and the way in which it was created. Once again, the government tries to evoke the idea that there has been a systematic exploration of alternatives, but as many times as there seems to have been a tunnel vision where Herwijnen was the only option left. In our oral consultation, the Secretary of State literally said: "The best location was also looked at and Herwijnen came out of it." I've consulted the band again. All involved stories of conversations in which it became clear that the Ministry of Herwijnen experienced as a fluke, as a gift. After all, it has been thought, where do you find a spot on flat land that is available, already had a radar fantastic, Mr. Dessing, since 1971 I think you said; long in any case at all, and so on, and so on. And everything indicates that after that they simply stopped searching. I do not know whether the Secretary of State still wants to deny tonight that the choice was so coincidence-based and whether she still insists that it has been a systematic search. In that case, I'd like to talk to her about her last letter, telling her something about that so-called search. She first writes that New Milligen fell off. Then she writes that Gilze-Rijen was looked at and that "for reference" the location Herwijnen was also included. Now I do not know what 'for reference' means in this context, but at least it says that there has not been a systematic search, but that only the most obvious options have been considered. She then pointed out to Mr Koole in the letter three beautiful pictures of the detection capacity at low altitude for Nieuw-Miligen, Gilze-Rijen and Herwijnen. And because Gilze-Rijen doesn't cover up Amsterdam, that option fell. Well, not only is Zeeland not doing well on the other pictures, neither is Maastricht covered in any of the options, but apparently that is not an argument. Can the Secretary of State explain why Limburg is not important for radar detection capacity? This question is not just a triviality; it is this kind of half-hearted and apparently selected information that has affected confidence. The government explicitly stated in the letter of 22 November: "This led to no reason at the time to investigate further further possible alternative locations and thus the choice for Herwines has been made." So no alternative research has been carried out at all. And on July 16, she said: "Because the location Broekgraaf 1 in Herwijnen was initially suitable and available, no comprehensive alternative study has taken place." Pretty clear, I think. Call it a tunnel, call it a trap. But it is clear that there has been no systematic exploration. In this light, how does the Secretary of State look at earlier wordings, for example during the oral consultation, that looked at the best location and that Herwijnen came out of it? How does she look at her firm denial of my question during the discussion as to whether there had been a tunnel vision? I am very interested in answering these questions. Is this reconnaissance something that's going to happen within the state coordination scheme? I quote again from the oral consultation. The Secretary of State said about the alternative research: "That is also always part of a state coordination scheme, that for the permit application for the spatial decision you should also be able to demonstrate that the location you have chosen, that you can well justify that it is a suitable location." Very clever and very creatively formulated, because she actually says that an alternative research is not part of the national coordination scheme, but only the question of whether the location is suitable. And that also makes sense, because you only have to put in place a state coordination scheme and national integration plan if a specific municipal or provincial government does not agree to the request to allocate a specific location and therefore there are no alternatives. But maybe the Secretary of State means something else or I misunderstood her. That is why I am asking her which legislation, whether it decides whether it applies precisely when she says that something is or is not part of the national coordination system. We do not read these obvious roadmaps in the Wro, the Barro and the Rarro, so we are happy to be informed. Why is that such an important point? Because the state coordination regime means that local democracy can no longer play a role in a decision that has a direct impact on the living environment of citizens. This overruling of municipal responsibility may be necessary, but that is only if the radar station can really be built on this site and no other. It is clear to us that building a radar station in general serves a national interest. That placement in Herwijnen is possible, we also understand, except for the possible problem of cumulation. But the fact that the placement in Herwijnen is necessary simply does not make it possible, on the basis of the information we have been given to date. That makes the overruling of local democracy in this therefore coincidental location so debatable. And that simply means that it is now too early for a decision to call in the state coordination scheme. I agree with what Mr Koole said. Mr. Chairman. This process has been going on for a few years and it has not become more careful. We are now being bombarded with requests to decide quickly because wind farms need to be built in Flevoland. They must and can get there because the radar in New Milligen is going to disappear. You know that my group is very much in favour of wind farms, the more, the better, in the right place, but this is really the problem of the government which has not done its homework properly and is now running out of time. If an alternative study had been conducted properly and in good time, we wouldn't have been here with each other. The desirability of setting up wind farms cannot and should not be a reason for state-of-the-art mess. Care is also under pressure in dealing with citizens. In the end, the government has given in to the desire to carry out the research on alternatives. She invites citizens to make suggestions. The deadline for this was November 8th. And rara, on that day, the search area in which the alternatives have to be found appears to be put online. Can the Secretary of State explain how this fits in with a careful process, in which citizens' visions are taken seriously at all? Can she explain why the search area was chosen so small, while at an earlier stage the environment of Gilze and Rijen was also an option, but apparently not anymore? I would like an explanation from the Secretary of State, because it seems that with this move, the chances of an alternative being found at all had to be minimized. That is precisely not taking citizens seriously. Does the six-week deadline set by the Awbr in Article 316 (1) also apply to the submission of views and opinions? And if that deadline applies here, how can the deadline coincide with the date of publication of the criteria? In our oral consultation, the Secretary of State underlined the importance of good communication and involving residents in the process. She also mentioned the Defence website on which all questions are collected and answered. Curious as I am, I have of course looked at it and I found, saying and writing, indeed three e-mails with questions. The document in which it is stated is dated 21 October. The first two e-mails literally get the same answer. Haven't there been any more questions sent in? We have heard that from the people of Herwijnen and surroundings. Then where did those questions go? What's the content of those other e-mails? Where are the answers? Is this the example of good communication that she was talking about? And when it comes to care, can the Secretary of State reassure the residents as to the ability of the radar tower? There is now a feeling that suggestive images and texts convey that full power will be quite easy and that therefore the risks and precautions are not too bad, while on the other hand it is said that it is a strong radar with a great scope and therefore of national importance. What exactly is the power of the new radar? Can the government guarantee that something heavier will not be built than it says? How can the local government soon check that a radar with even higher power doesn't appear secretly? I admit it's sad that I have to ask a secretary of state for this. But so small is the confidence that the citizens of Herwijnen currently have. Mr. Chairman. My group is not against a new radar tower at all. My group is not even against a new radar tower in Herwijnen in advance. Nor is my group, by definition, opposed to the use of the state coordination system. But my group is opposed to a way of acting by the government which leads to people losing confidence in the government. My group is opposed to the appearance of a careful procedure which is only used to conceal the fact that the Ministry has not done its job properly. My group is opposed to the brutalisation of citizens and local authorities when they raise legitimate objections and understandable concerns. "Ceci n'est pas une pipe." This is not a careful procedure. This is a surrealistic image of a procedure that is not reality. And that's where it went wrong. How is this gonna end? Because we are not just here for the problem, but also for the solutions. In our view, first of all, it would be helpful if the Secretary of State were to be clear and transparent and to admit that the decision for Herwijnen was a stroke of chance, and that the thinking about alternatives has stopped there. Because if she admits that, the alternative investigation really makes sense. Then we'll start over again. It then helps if the Secretary of State simply goes to work, simply conducts the necessary investigations and stops saying that this can only be done if the National Coordination Scheme can be started. Because honestly, that's just bullshit. And that's what it turns out, because the investigations are now in progress. If the government's in such a hurry, let them get to work. We will agree to a state coordination scheme as a pure and convincing choice for a specific location. And that's why we're looking forward to the Secretary of State's answers tonight. But it should be clear that she shouldn't try to convince us. She needs to acknowledge what went wrong and she needs to try to give the population another reason to trust the government. "Ceci n'est pas une pipe," president. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u8	Thank you, Mr. Ganzevoort. Then I would like to give the floor to Mrs Huizinga-Heringa for her maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u9	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Dessing on his fine speech. For me it is also a maiden speech; I hope to make something beautiful of it. But at least you did it. Mr. Chairman. As I said, this is my first plenary contribution to the First Chamber. Both chambers of the States-General have their own role. In my opinion, it is very important that we focus on the role of the First Chamber in our democracy. We will have to be careful not to copy the House of Representatives or become an extension of our parliamentary groups. Then we do not have enough democracy and make ourselves redundant. It is only by carefully monitoring the role of the First Chamber that there is complementarity between the two Chambers and by reviewing the government's proposals in full democratic terms that the policy guidelines, proportionality and coherence of government plans are being carefully monitored. The subject we are discussing, Herwijnen, was a good exercise for me in limiting me to the role of Prime Minister. Mr. Chairman. Over the last few months, we have talked regularly in committee about Herwijnen. At first, what seemed to be a clear issue seemed to be whether or not to agree with a state coordination scheme................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The written and oral answers of the Secretary of State to questions from the First Chamber clouded her request rather than clarifying it. In addition to the national importance of the radar station for the safety of our country, it was also mentioned that the municipality initially supported the positioning of the radar and that the land had already been purchased. Moreover, if the radar was not installed in Herwijnen, the construction of a wind farm would be delayed. No matter where or where these last things may be, these reasons are no reason for my group to vote in favour of excluding local democracy. In short, we have missed a direct clear justification for this request from the Secretary of State. The national interest is decisive in agreeing or not to accept an RCR. This importance must be so great and obvious that local democracy can be put out of play. Over the past few months, the Secretary of State has made clear to us the importance of a good radar for the safety of our country. It has also made it clear that the timely construction of the radar is an element of national security. The Secretary of State has also well substantiated that Herwijnen is an excellent location for a new radar station. But the Secretary of State has not so far investigated whether Herwijnen is the only good location where a good radar can be built in time. That seems plausible to her, so I paraphrase her words. But she didn't examine it. That is what our criticism is about. This criticism is shared by the House of Representatives, which forced the State Secretary to commit the House of Representatives to submit to the House of Representatives the site research she will do in the framework of the RCR before the House of Representatives will give the final consent to continue this process. That's a conditional consent of the House of Representatives. At least that's how I read it. This is a special construction, but it is indicative of the whole opaque process. Is this reading correct? Mr. Chairman. My group believes that we should no longer wait for a decision to be taken. It won't get much clearer. From the population of Herwijnen we hear concerns about the cumulative effects of the possible new radar, combined with the radar that is already there. There is a question about the environmental category within which this radar station falls. Can there be any derogation from that? A report has come up that sheds new light at the desired distance from the building in relation to the radar. There's a lot of unrest. A well-organised local community is deeply concerned. As First Chamber, we cannot investigate and test these findings. That's not our role. But it is very important that there be clarity and that there be good answers to the questions that live widely in the community. Within the RCR, all these cases need to be examined in an appropriate, clear and sound procedure. The requirements applicable to a normal spatial planning procedure apply here as well. That is why I stress that starting the RCR military radar station Herwijnen is certainly not certain that this radar station will eventually be built or put into service. Does the Secretary of State agree with me? The communication between Herwijnen and the Ministry has gone a lot wrong and a lot goes wrong. The impression has arisen among residents that the Secretary of State will press the radar station at all costs. How will the Secretary of State take the residents into the investigation during the RCR process? And how does she show that she takes their comments seriously and investigates them properly? I would like to hear a clear answer from the Secretary of State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u10	Thank you very much, Mrs Huizinga. Congratulations on your maiden speech. Allow me to outline some of your background. You obtained your candidate's Dutch Law at the University of Utrecht. In 1998 you were elected to the Reformatorian Political Federation, the RPF, with preferred votes in the city council of Heerenveen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u11	The RPF and the GPV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u12	"And the GPV." That's the rule after this. I don't have to pronounce it now. Thank you. You remained that way until 2002, while the party had now merged into the Christian Union in 2000. You were the chairman of the political group during that period. For the clear language you used, you received in 1999 the chartered "best councilman in Heerenveen." In 2001, you were the first woman on the list of candidates of the Christian Union for the Second Chamber. You were elected with preferred votes and thus the first female MP on behalf of the Christian Union and the parties that entered that party. In the Lower House, you sat almost immediately on the parliamentary committee of inquiry into the events surrounding the transmission of soldiers to Srebrenica. You dealt with foreign affairs, foreign affairs and integration policies and environmental management across the street. In 2006, you submitted an initiative proposal on the criminalisation of denial of genocide. The proposal is currently under discussion in the Lower House. From the Chamber you made the switch to the Board in 2007 when you became Secretary of State for Transport and Water Management in the fourth cabinet-Balkenende. After the resignation of the PvdA executives because of the decision to extend the military mission in the Afghan province of Uruzgan, you were Minister of Housing, Spatial Planning and Environment for eight months. From 2015 to 2018 you were director of the Wilde Ganzen Foundation. In addition to your First Membership, you are also Chairman of the Board of Commissioners of Movares, Commissioner of the Parnassia Group and Secretary of the Foundation's Executive Board for the Promotion of the Christian Press. In your party's history, you are seen as the way forward for Christian Union women in national politics. Anno 2019 means that among others a deputy prime minister and a group chairman in this Chamber. You yourself said about this when you left as Minister in 2010: "I myself have never acted, but you can see that it is no longer a matter at all. With a good male-female relationship you get the most pleasant atmosphere and the best decisions." Once again, welcome and we look forward to your further input. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u13	Thank you, Mr President. As a first apology to the Secretary of State who is here and the colleagues that I was a little late, but not everything is unfortunately planned up to the minute on such short notice. I am particularly sorry, because it has also made me miss Mr Dessing's maiden speech, but I will look back on him tonight or tomorrow when it can be seen. I'll be able to congratulate you tomorrow after I've seen him. Mr President, on the substance. With increasing amazement, the SP has followed the process around the newly built radar station. Where the Herwijnen site was started in 2012 as a reference location in the research into the construction of a radar station in Gilze-Rijen, it has then become the direct object of a proposed state coordination scheme. The choice was made in 2014 on Herwijnen without further investigation into alternative locations. One of the reasons was that the then municipality of Lingewaal seemed willing to participate in the placement. It is now clear that this is no longer the case. Nevertheless, the Secretary of State perseveres in the attitude as if it were still 2014. Over the past few months, the First Chamber has always been told that no necessary investigations could take place other than within the National Coordination Scheme. Herwijnen was also presented as the location chosen after careful consideration. All this seems to me to be somewhat different on a number of points. Rewinning seemed to be an easy option in 2014. That was what was really going on: easy to acquire and no political resistance. Further research into other locations was omitted. The ease must be human. Meanwhile, the Secretary of State reaps the bitter fruits of this earlier method. There are many concerns among the population and there is no political-administrative cooperation. This is not surprising for anyone with some administrative sensitivity, given that the municipality of Lingewal has been part of a municipal reclassification in recent years. As a result, political relations generally shift and we often see a hardening of positions. This is a well-known and also predictable story in municipal reclassifications. This means for the administrative partners of such a municipality that extra investment is needed in the proportions and in additional flexibility. Maintaining positions taken earlier is counterproductive. It is no longer 2014 and the municipality and its inhabitants do not live in the world of ranks and stands of the Ministry of Defence. Not to be saluted by an order from above, but critical questions are asked. And rightly so, as far as the SP is concerned, for example, about the radiation and the environmental category, which the residents are deeply concerned about. In that, Revingen is not unique. We can see that at the moment there is a broad rise in the Netherlands, for example in the roll-out of the 5G network that people are worried about. Mr. Chairman. It seems that this new administrative reality was not adequately taken into account by the Ministry in 2019. Two worlds are born. The Ministry lives in 2014 and behaves accordingly. Since 1 January 2019 the new municipality of West Betuwe has not behaved like this, resulting in distorted relations and falling back into an undesirable administrative reflex: letting power speak. With this the doors close and the administrative crow's feet come out of the closet; old reflexes into a changed world. Mr. Chairman. The right way seems to us to do your homework first as a ministry, which was left behind in 2014. No research has been carried out on alternative locations, and so it will have to be done now. But you don't need a state coordination scheme for that. Colleagues said the same thing. Why has the Secretary of State always maintained in recent months that such an investigation could only take place within a state coordination scheme? The Ministry hasn't done that before either in 2012 and 2014? Why now and then, my question is to the Secretary of State. It's a complete mystery to us. Mr. Chairman. The SP believes that as a government you should be very reluctant to intervene in local democratic processes. As far as we're concerned, no, unless. Especially in the light, as I say, of the anticipation of the Environment Act in which the local government is the first government. Furthermore, although the National Coordination Scheme was implemented for energy projects, an evaluation was carried out in 2016 by Andersson, Elfers, Felix. This evaluation was commissioned by the Ministry of Economic Affairs. That is good, because opportunities for improvement must be exploited. One of the conclusions of that 2016 review we are talking about December 2016 we can, as far as I am concerned, stick one-on-one on the case of Herwijnen. I quote: 'Application leads to increased risks', the headline says. "When there is a social and/or administrative debate about the usefulness and need of an initiative, the RCR's commitment strengthens the politicisation of the issue. The use of the regime is seen as a seizure of power by the Empire. If then in such a politicised field there is too little room for administrative consultation, exchange of interests, political escalation to the minister (now there is often more contact with MPs of the opposition than with the minister) and there is also surgery according to bureaucratic rationality, then the arrangement works like oil on the fire." Mr. Chairman. As far as the SP is concerned, the Secretary of State must say that a radar station in Herwijnen is a national interest. A radar station is a national interest, not a radar station in Herwijnen. That remains to be examined and therefore to be seen. I therefore call on the Secretary of State to do her homework first and then to get on board properly, if only to avoid unnecessary procedures with the municipality. The state coordination scheme is used if you have all the arguments well substantiated in a row to go for that particular location and, after careful consideration, not for another location. Arguments must be followable for everyone, not just for parliament, but above all for the people. The weighting of those arguments should also be follow-up. That is the quality of the process that has so far been lacking. It must also be established that there are no obstacles to achieving that location at all. Let me give you an example of the radiation levels. Mr. Chairman. As I have just said, a premature use of a state coordination regime as an oil on the administrative and political fire works. It doesn't have to be and it's undesirable as far as the SP is concerned. Without first completing the investigations and identifying the best location and having established that there is no obstacle, the Secretary of State should not want to introduce a state coordination scheme. In addition, the SP is very surprised that the municipality should propose alternatives to this location. That's bullshit. As a result, the municipality must defend itself and that is undesirable in a careful process. Let's start with the homework. The Ministry of Defense in violation of a defensive council can never lead to a good outcome. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State whether she is prepared to complete the investigations first, so that a clear picture of locations and possible obstacles can be created. Mr President, concluding. It is clear from my contribution that the SP is against the use of the state coordination regime at the moment, because there is still homework that needs to be done first. In this way, the use of the state coordination system at the moment is immeasurable, unnecessary and therefore undesirable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u14	Thank you, Mr. Janssen. I would like to give the floor to Mr De Vries on behalf of the Otten Group for his maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u15	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Dessing and Mrs Huizinga-Heringa on their maiden speeches. Mr. Chairman. This debate concerns two issues: the lack of homework of Secretary of State Visser and her desire to apply an emergency intervention in the country's interest. I will discuss this later in my speech, but I want to start with the problem. What's the problem here? In short, this is a regentesque way of governing this country. That has been annoying us for years. That was a great incentive for me to work towards realising a new dynamic in The Hague and a different political direction for the Netherlands. We also see this in the case of Rewines. The decision-making process, which has been going on since 2016, brings the Secretary of State to the First Chamber on Monday evening to get a mandate from us to deploy the National Coordination Scheme for a radar in Herwijnen. It is the result of the frivolous way in which this Secretary of State, as well as her predecessor, Minister of Defence Hennis, thinks that with all the bureaucratic means at her disposal, local democracy should be put out of play. This state coordination scheme is a horse's tool used by the government to push decisions that are not supported in local politics down the throats of citizens. This national coordination scheme is also regularly applied to the construction of wind farms, which are often not expected at all locally. In this case, a military radar installation shall be located at a location where the necessary environmental authorisation has not been issued. All political parties in the city council of West Betuwe are unanimous against the granting of permits. And that makes sense, because there is already another radar system nearby, namely a radar of the KNMI. As a result, local opportunities are very limited and the accumulation of radiation creates unacceptable health risks for the local population in Herwijnen. All this is bad enough in itself, but the dedain with which this Secretary of State thinks he can work for the people and directors of Herwijnen and all of us, is typical. The use of the National Coordination Regulation is seen as a seizure of power by the Empire. If then in such a politicised field there is too little room for administrative consultation, exchange of interests, political escalation....................................................................................................................................................... These are not my words, this was the conclusion of the final report Evaluation of National Coordination Scheme by the consultancy Andersson Elfers Felix of November 2016. Exactly this phenomenon is also happening around the radar in Herwijnen. On 4 September last, the Secretary of State promised the House of Representatives to investigate alternative locations for its radar plans in Herwijnen. I quote from an article in the Reformatorisch Dagblad: "State Secretary Barbara Visser has DOD thoroughly investigated whether there are alternative locations for a military radar tower in Herwijnen. On Wednesday afternoon, the lady-in-chief said so to the House of Representatives. The municipality is against the arrival of the radar station that has to guard a large part of the Dutch airspace. Residents are concerned about the health risks of radiation. If there is another location available, the radar does not enter the Gelderse Herwijnen, said Visser. She suspects that the investigation into a possible alternative location could be completed in six to eight weeks. If no new option emerges from this study, it will continue the decision-making process around the radar tower in Herwijnen. By means of the so-called state coordination regulation, the government can overrule a municipal government. According to Visser, this route is needed in Herwijnen because national security is at stake. The current radar tower in New Milligen is forty years old and needs to be replaced." Crystal, you'd say. Within six to eight weeks, the investigation of an alternative location would have been completed. But now, three months later, we are having this debate without this promised list, and so empty-handed. That is why I ask the Secretary of State for an undertaking that it will first make available the alternative investigation to this Chamber before the vote on the application of the RCR in Herwijnen. Mr. Chairman. Everything indicates that the Secretary of State has been constrained by tunnel vision and no longer wants or can look at alternatives and possibilities. Not willing, but unwilling; that seems to be the new mantra of Secretary of State Visser. In a previous committee meeting, I said that this Secretary of State ended up in the quicksand of Herwijnen, and every move she makes now, she is sucked further into the quicksand. The coûte que coûte perseverance of this national coordination scheme will further contribute to this. It seems to our group to be ignorant to continue with this. A different approach is urgently needed. Throw it over another bow, my advice to the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. A lot of questions have been asked. Some of them remained unanswered as usual. I have four more questions for the Secretary of State. Can the Secretary of State share with this Chamber the data contained in Thales' report on, among other things, the so-called safe distance? If not, can it indicate in confidence, if necessary, the maximum safe distance between this radar and the surrounding buildings? My second question concerns the capability of the intended SMART-L radar installation. Can the Secretary of State indicate what the power of this radar will be, and in particular its peak power? Because then the radiation is the worst. If not, can it indicate whether the power is higher or lower than the power of the KNMI shower radar? What is the cumulative radiation effect at the time when both radar systems, both military radar and KNMI, emit radiation at peak power? That's my third question. I suggest this because it is obvious that these peak power will often be switched on at the same time in certain weather conditions. My final question is: has the Secretary of State examined the possibilities of placing the newly planned military radar on the location of the KNMI's existing shower radar in Herwijnen in the country's interest instead of the shower radar? If not, why not? One radar is still more acceptable than two, and the shower radar is not crucial to the country's interest. Mr. Chairman. Barbara Visser's political radar is clearly not well tuned in this matter. Visser's approach has become a game of panic football as a result of the time pressure she herself created. This is totally the wrong approach. And the worst of all: the interests of the people from Herwijnen, the health of the people living around, are completely forgotten by this approach. Yes, of course, we are all ultimately concerned with airspace safety, but it is now putting the Secretary of State himself at risk because of her impractical and ill-thought-out approach. That is why I will conclude my speech with a heartfelt appeal to the Secretary of State. Get to work quickly and decisively on finding good alternative locations, rather than forcefully ditching the radar in Herwijnen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u16	Thank you, Mr. De Vries. May I draw your attention to the fact that we are used in this Chamber to addressing the rulers with "Minister" or "State Secretary" and not with their first or last names? Congratulations on your maiden speech. Allow me to outline some of your background. You studied economics for one year at the University of Groningen, also your birthplace. Then you made the switch to the Hanseatic School, where you successfully completed your training in management, economics and law in real estate and real estate in 1996. A few years later you followed the course of project development of NEPROM, the Association of Dutch Project Development Societys. In the meantime, you had started in Amsterdam as a real estate agent at Colliers International. From 1997 to 2010 you worked as a financial specialist, consecutively at FGH Bank NV and Personal Finance Amsterdam BV. In 2010 you returned to real estate and real estate. For example, you worked as partner broker at Allington, as real estate agent at Voorma & Millenaar brokers, as director at real estate company Binswanger and as partner at the Engel & Völkers Real Estate Agency. Since 2015 you are Private Office Advisor at Engel & Völkers. Around the same time you met Henk Otten and Thierry Baudet, and became involved in the Forum for Democracy, which was then still a think tank. Their enthusiasm and critical sound appealed to you, told you in this Chamber when you applied for Vice-Presidentship. After the think tank had become a political party and gained two seats in the Dutch Parliament elections in 2017, you became press officer of the Dutch Parliamentary Group of the Forum for Democracy. In 2019 you were elected as First MP on behalf of the party and sworn in on 11 June this year. After Mr Otten started the Otten Group, you announced in August, together with Mrs Rookmaker, that you were joining him. In the meantime, the political party GO, Group Otten, has been established. You are general board member of the party and press officer. I have already referred to your candidacy for the second Vice-President. In your candidacy letter you wrote: "My relatively short political career gives room for further development and development." With today's contribution to your first plenary debate, you have taken a new step. Once again, welcome and we look forward to your further input. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Arbouw for his maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to stress that I find it a great honour to sit in this Chamber and speak in this historic Chamber. Of course, I would also like to congratulate Mr Dessing, Mrs Huizinga, Mr De Vries and Mr Rietkerk, who will be following me shortly, on the maiden speech they are making today. Mr. Chairman. Today's topic isn't exactly the first subject I've been thinking about to make a maiden speech. Still, on second thought, this fits perfectly with my background and resume. I'll explain. On the one hand my Defence background: I served for a long time at the Corps Driving Artillery, founded on 21 February 1793, a corps where tradition and history are of great importance, as in this house. It is also the same unit that annually fires salute and minute shots at the Malieveld during Princess Day, in those beautiful uniforms. I even got married in a gold doll. In addition to the positions in the Ministry, I have worked for a number of years as a military diplomat in Brussels at NATO headquarters and the European Union. As a colonel out of service, I am thus well placed in the present file and am aware of the need to find a good new location for this radar station. On the other hand, my long administrative background as alderman of a large city, and with a portfolio in spatial planning and urban development, where I have experience of national and provincial integration plans and understand what a state coordination scheme means, but also understand what that means for the local level. Mr. Chairman. My group was, in fact, convinced of the need for speedy decision-making at the first stage of the Rewinnen National Coordination Scheme, following the State Secretary's offer letter of 7 June this year. In the meantime, we have discussed it almost every week in our joint committee since 25 June. So often that it has become almost a tradition, and you have already understood that I do like traditions, a kind of fixed ritual on Tuesday afternoon. We're gonna miss it all so much later. But, Mr President, it is of course a matter of national importance to have a well-functioning radar station that covers this part of the Netherlands and this part of NATO airspace. Because it is actually also a NATO task. The old location, on Nieuw-Miligen, was no longer suitable, could not be adapted, and is now so old that outages cannot be ruled out. A study has been launched since 2012 and from 2015 this replacement is being carried out, in consultation and initially with the agreement and cooperation of the relevant municipality of Lingewaal. Now that local cooperation is no longer available after the municipal reclassification, we believe that the use of a state coordination system is only logical. The Spatial Planning Act also offers this possibility. According to the new Land Planning Act, Article 3.35, the State Coordination Scheme can be started if there is a national interest, such as the country's security. And that's what's at stake here. So it doesn't have to be the best or any location. The national interest alone and the NATO task underline that it is sufficient. This radar is at the service of the Air Operations Control Station in Nieuw-Miligen and is part of NATO's integrated air defence system. 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, the Quick Reaction Alert Team is on standby with two F-16s to do interceptions on the basis of information from, among other things, these radar systems. That is what happens all the time. The operational necessity of this radar is thus beyond doubt. Mr President, of course I also understand the concerns raised by other groups today. This is about a careful process, legal certainty and quality research. And of course the VVD also understands the concerns expressed by residents in Herwijnen. As an alderman, I have had to regularly consider the placement of antennas in the city, where residents are very concerned about radiation, cumulative effects and health effects. And of course the radiation from a radar station is different from antennas for telephony. And that is why it is a good thing that the State Secretary, at the request of the municipality and the House of Representatives, is now carrying out solid investigations into possible alternative locations and the cumulative effects of radiation. These should, of course, be carried out carefully and in consultation with stakeholders. In our view, the best guarantee that this will be done is to embezzle the investigations into the state coordination system. The VVD is pleased that the Secretary of State has regularly indicated that he has also learned from the process so far and that transparency and acceptance will be given a lot of emphasis in the follow-up process. Mr. Chairman. The National Coordination Scheme is an excellent procedure that can guarantee care, legal certainty and a high-quality process, including through the cooperation with the National Real Estate Company of the Ministry of the Interior. Participation, information meetings and objections are included in this procedure. For the Ministry of Defence, the implementation of a state coordination scheme is an exception and, according to the letter of the Secretary of State of 15 October, even the first time. But in other departments, EZK, BZK, IenW, this is a much more common figure, for example for energy infrastructure projects, such as the Flevoland wind farms, which also run through the state coordination scheme. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the conclusion. For the VVD, a decision to launch the State Coordination Scheme therefore provides the best guarantee for careful administrative weighting and early decision-making. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u18	Thank you, Mr. Arbouw. Congratulations on your maiden speech. Allow me to outline some of your background as well. You have been trained as an army officer at the Royal Military Academy in Breda and at the Royal Higher Institute of Defence in Brussels. Later in your career, you also obtained the professor of public administration at the University of Leiden and followed higher military education at the Institute of Defence Courses and the Master's degree Top Management Defence at the Institute Clingendael. Given this background, it is no surprise that you are holding your maiden speech during this debate. You are currently out of service, but as a professional military officer, you were, among other things, attaché to the Permanent Representation of the Netherlands to NATO and the European Union in Brussels. At the Ministry of Defence in Arnhem and The Hague you also had several functions. For example, you were Policy Advisor Staff and Organisation, Head of the Policy Review Department and Deputy Director of the Head of Finance and Control. You have also taken a temporary trip to another department when you were advisor to Environment Law at the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Environment. A dossier which is also very topical at the moment in this Chamber, but that aside. In 2002 you became alderman for the VVD in Breda. You were responsible for safety, housing, building and housing control and urban development. Four years later, the party did not return to the college of mayor and aldermen and you became party chairman of the VVD in the city council. Between 2010 and 2018 you were again alderman of Breda, and this time also deputy mayor. BN DeStem once wrote about you: "a man of appointment is an appointment, an intelligent negotiator who can untangle buttons and give a 'bleeding opponent' the idea that he is sticking the patch." You've been warned. Since 11 June, you have been a member of the First Chamber and put these properties, together with your knowledge and experience, into this house. In addition to membership, you are a member of the Board of Advice of the GO Delta Foundation and a member of the Supervisory Committee of the International School in Breda. Once again, welcome and we look forward to your further input. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Rietkerk for his maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u19	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I congratulate my colleagues Mrs Huizinga-Heringa and Mr Dessing, Mr De Vries and Mr Arbouw on their maiden speech. It feels good. Mr. Chairman. The CDA has four key concepts: justice, solidarity, stewardship and a shared responsibility. In the future perspective for the Netherlands in 2030, "Side by side," these key concepts have been further developed in perspectives. A shared responsibility involves people, organisations, companies and governments who have their own and a common responsibility. Trust is an important starting point. A resounding perspective is outlined, beyond system thinking, on the road to sustainable institutions. Crucial for Christian democracy is the way in which the government creates order in the community. It is a public administration that breathes and thinks along with society, which it serves and organises as a community. The government also organizes local, provincial and rural space: spatial planning, or spatial development if you like. And with pleasure and passion I was able to gain experience with this: from 1984 during my studies in Public Administration and Law, then, until 1998, as an advisor to spatial planning, then as a Member of Parliament, from 1998 to 2003, as a member of the Parliament's Committee on Housing, Spatial Planning and the Environment, and then as a deputy VROM in the beautiful province of Overijssel, until the end of 2014. Thorbecke's house stands for spatial development and in the Land Planning Act as a house. Closest to the people: the municipal government. I've heard that coming over regularly today. There are also the provincial and the state authorities. The municipality is the first to be responsible for the spatial interventions in the municipal interest. This is done by means of a zoning procedure or by means of a spatial coordination scheme. This coordination provides a legal basis for residents to safeguard their interests through participation, opposition and appeal to the courts, and that is very important. When a provincial interest is at stake, the municipality may also assume spatial coordination. Isn't that what the city wants? Then the province applies its spatial coordination scheme. I was allowed to do that in my administrative period. In my opinion, the Law on Spatial Planning gives this assignment or possibility. If a major interest is at stake, the municipality may also assume spatial coordination on its own territory. But doesn't the city want that? Then, on the basis of the Law on Regional Planning, the government has the mandate to apply the National Coordination Scheme. The Second and First Chambers must agree to this arrangement. A number of Members have already pointed this out. In applying it, the Empire has a legal role and residents have safeguards in the area of involvement, participation, objection and appeal to the courts. Mr. Chairman. Today, the application of the National Coordination Regulation radar station Herwijnen is on our agenda. Following on from my speech, I would like to say the following on behalf of the CDA Group. The municipality of West Betuwe has indicated that it does not want to take on spatial coordination. I see a reaction to this. If the national interest is at stake, the Reich, having regard to the Law on Spatial Planning, has the legal mandate to apply the National Coordination Scheme. Now we are talking about a military radar station in Herwijnen, which is considered necessary, given the national interests involved, within the framework of national security and climate objectives. From the explanatory memorandum of the Law on Spatial Planning, which is Chamberpiece 28916, No. 3, page 52, Mr.Ganzevoort, it follows that "classic" national projects and activities, which relate to the country's security, including the country's defence, fall under the criterion of good national spatial planning and are therefore of national importance. In this way, we believe that the legal conditions for the application of the National Coordination Scheme are met. The CDA Group attaches great importance to legal safeguards, especially for the inhabitants of the areas concerned, in this case West Betuwe, for participation and careful balancing of interests. The process of applying the National Coordination Regulation has taken a long time, as others have pointed out, and has not so far gone smoothly. The image from the weekly e-mails, which we as First Chamber members get, and apps towards our Chamber fits a bit. As far as the CDA is concerned, the Secretary of State will have to improve the spatial balance under the National Coordination Scheme. The CDA Group advises to use more expertise from the Home Office or the National Real Estate Company. It has just been said by predecessors. How does the Secretary of State see that? In our opinion, improvement is necessary. The CDA Group advises the Secretary of State to further regain confidence. She's on her way, but it's gonna take more. Alternative locations should be considered within the framework of the State Coordination Scheme. This must be accompanied by legal guarantees for residents, such as public preparation. Can the Secretary of State undertake to involve the inhabitants in the preliminary draft phase? Is there, for example, a walk-in evening, an information meeting or both? Can the people submit their views? And will these residents receive an acknowledgement of receipt in time and then receive a substantive and serious reaction from the government? Moreover, citizens are still concerned about the health risks. Others have pointed this out. Thales, TNO, RIVM and WHO have conducted further investigations or checks. Yet the concerns are not gone. Can the Secretary of State promise that the results of surveys, for example on flora and fauna, but also on everything related to health and the environment, will be reflected within the framework of the National Coordination Scheme, so that they can be read transparently by those who want it and certainly by the inhabitants? And does the Secretary of State and the CDA Group consider that the environmental permit in terms of health and any cumulative effects must comply with legal standards? Mr. Chairman. As you will hear, the CDA Group believes that the First Chamber's decision-making is mainly about legality, enforcement and effectiveness of laws and regulations. I agree with the Christian Union Group. In the present case, it concerns the application of the Law on Spatial Planning. As far as we are concerned, the House of Representatives is about the choice of location. A motion has also been adopted which we can read back in the documents. That debate belongs there as far as our group is concerned. The Secretary of State has already been asked about this. She's already answered how she wants to deal with that. As far as we are concerned, we are not going to double in our First Chamber or do that debate again. This does not help to strengthen democracy and certainly not to regain the confidence of residents. Finally, Mr President. The CDA Group welcomes the application of the National Coordination Scheme under conditions. We are therefore waiting for the answers and commitments of the Secretary of State to reach a final decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u20	Thank you, Mr. Rietkerk. Congratulations on your maiden speech. Allow me to outline some of your background. After the heao you took a training as an administrative officer at the Higher Board Academy in Zwolle, where you specialised in legislation and law in the area of space and environment. Next, you studied state and administrative law at the Open University. You started out as a project worker at the Ministry of Economic Affairs, but soon made the transition from government to the province. Between 1985 and 1998, you held various functions in the province of Overijssel in the field of rural development and the environment. In 1998 you were sworn in as a member of the Lower House of the CDA. After five years, you again made the transition from national to provincial when you joined the Deputy State of Overijssel in 2003. That's what you've been doing for 11 years. In 2007 you were named the best deputy in the Netherlands by daily Trouw. Since 2014, you have been chairman of the board of the education organisation Landstede Groep. As a CDA-Second MP, you were a spokesperson for the police, the fight against crime and security. Together with Mr Dittrich, you put forward an initiative proposal for the expiry of the limitation period for the prosecution of murder. That proposal was later accepted in this Chamber. In addition to your First Membership and your work at Landstede Groep, you are also chairman of the Supervisory Board of Roelofs Groep and chairman of the Go-Ahead Kampen football association. You used to want to be a professional football player. You have even been selected for the KNVB selection Oost. Even if it became politics, you're still involved in the club you played for. In an interview you once drew the parallel between football and politics: "In politics you see things that you see in football. You have to have perseverance and work on a team. You can't do anything alone, that goes for politics as well." Once again, welcome and we look forward to your further input. I shall then suspend the sitting for a few moments so that all Members who have made their maiden speech in the first term can be congratulated. I would ask Mr Dessing, Mrs Huizinga-Heringa, Mr De Vries, Mr Arbouw and Mr Rietkerk to stand up for the rostrum so that all the other colleagues can congratulate you, and I congratulate you first as President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u21	I give the floor to Mrs Moonen on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u22	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Dessing, Mrs Huizinga-Heringa, Mr De Vries, Mr Arbouw and Mr Rietkerk for their beautiful maiden speeches. Today we are discussing whether or not the national coordination scheme for the military radar station project in Herwijnen will enter into force. I'd be happy to take you into that trial. In 2013, Defense began searching for a new location for a military radar station. This was found in the town of Herwijnen. Initially, Lingewaal City Council agreed in 2015, but the Lingewaal City Council decided a few years later, in 2018, to change the zoning plan to the destination of a military radio and reception installation. That was therefore a change in the initial judgment, and the Council had two reasons for that. The first was that it was considered that the plan would not lead to good spatial planning, and the second was that the city council found that insufficient insight had been given into the effects on health. The current city council of West Betuwe has indicated that it does not want to initiate a zoning change itself. The only means left is the use of the state coordination system. The Empire then sets up a plan of national integration, but that can only be done if both Chambers agree. Mr. Chairman. It's about the health of the people in West Betuwe today. It is about the importance of aviation safety and it is about being able to rebuild wind farms. I'll brief you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u23	Mrs Moonen should not blame me for interrupting her on the point she is now raising. I've heard the same thing from others, but I wasn't allowed to interrupt them. You may also speak on behalf of those colleagues. Mrs Moonen says that the municipality did not want to decide, did not want to coordinate and that the Empire therefore had to do so. My question is whether that is true. Isn't it true that the municipality did want to decide something, namely that it shouldn't be there? The Empire could do two things. Or say we push it through. Or say, "We respect the city." Is the message that the municipality didn't want to decide the right summary? Or did the municipality actually decide something, but was that something that the Empire was uncomfortable?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u24	As I just said, West Betuwe didn't want to initiate a zoning change himself. It's in pieces from the council. I have indicated that, if you want to realize it, then the state coordination regime will remain. I would like to continue my speech in order to explain the considerations that we see.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u25	I understand that Mrs Moonen wishes to continue her speech, but I would like to put my finger on this sore spot, because that is what this is all about. The municipality has formally stated that it does not want to initiate it. She did it because she didn't want to. She didn't want this radar tower. That's a statement from the municipality. She didn't stand on the sidelines so the Empire would have to step in. No, the city just didn't want it. That's how it is, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u26	Then what is your question? So far it's been known.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u27	Mr Ganzevoort's third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u28	My question is this. Is Mrs. Moonen's representation that the Empire had to step in because the municipality didn't do its job? That's the suggestion she made.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u29	Then you didn't understand me correctly. The Empire doesn't have to do it, but the Empire can deploy a state coordination scheme. There's no obligation to use it. Mr. Chairman. It is about the health of the people in the Betuwe, about the importance of aviation safety and about the weathering of wind farms. Let us start with the health aspect, an important aspect for the people in the area. For people's health, it's about the possible radiation load. It will be clear that D66 believes that if a new radar is introduced into this area, the accumulation of all radiation will have to remain within the maximum radiation levels. In addition, it concerns the national importance of security for incoming potentially threatening devices. In her letter to the First Chamber on 25 October, the Secretary of State stated: "Defension is responsible for monitoring (part of) NATO and national airspace and conducting military air operations, among other things, from its constitutional tasks..." Finally, it concerns the construction of wind farms. They are currently largely silent in this country, because we are not actually deciding whether or not to use the state coordination regime. Because Nieuw-Miligen is kept in operation for longer, all windmill projects within a 75 km radius around Nieuw-Miligen get no explanation of any objection. Also around the location of Herwijnen and the possible alternative locations lies a 75 km contour where no windmill projects can be realized. The construction of 900 megawatts of wind energy projects on land is therefore stopped. That is 15% of our total renewable energy challenge. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats considers the health of residents, the safety of airspace and the construction of renewable energy parks to be very important. Our group also attaches great importance to an orderly process with the inhabitants and the municipality. The use of the State Coordination Scheme means that, according to the legislation, research must be carried out into alternative locations. Once an alternative location is found suitable, the National Coordination Scheme for the location in Herwijnen should immediately stop. It is also part of the RCR that research is being carried out into the cumulative effects of radar on health. You could say that it ensures that all necessary investigations are actually carried out. However, our group is struggling with the process that has so far been carried out by the Ministry of Defence. I am not going to go over the whole history of the process, because a great deal has already been said by previous speakers. I don't need to repeat that. I would like to emphasise the more recent procedural failures. In its letter of 22 November 2019, the State Secretary undertook to carry out an investigation into alternative locations together with the municipality and local residents. In addition, the Secretary of State has undertaken to investigate the cumulative effects of radiation on health. Both investigations have still not been completed. Residents and municipalities are therefore kept in uncertainty for a very long time, but that was not necessary at all. The residents were asked very late to think about alternative suitable locations. When in early 2019 the municipality of West Betuwe indicated that it did not want to participate in a zoning change, the Ministry of Defence could have immediately looked for alternative locations. That didn't happen. With this valuable time has been lost: soon ten months or so. It is high time to change this. Mr. Chairman. The D66 Group considers it very important to distinguish between preparation, all preparatory studies, and the decision to place them. In our view, these are two different routes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u30	I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate Mr Dessing, Mr De Vries, Mr Arbouw and Mr Rietkerk and Mrs Huizinga on their maiden speeches. Mrs Moonen spoke just now about those investigations and that process that did not go well. It could have been much faster, right last year, when the municipality said: we don't want it. Does Mrs Moonen also say that the investigations that have been initiated but have not yet been completed are investigations that are careful, even outside the framework of the State Coordination Regulation? Because that state coordination scheme has still not entered into force. How does Mrs Moonen qualify the care of both investigations that have been initiated but have not yet been completed?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u31	That is difficult to say, because these investigations are currently taking place and we have not yet been able to take note of them. There is little I can say about the content of the investigations and I can say very little about the diligence of the investigations, because they have never been offered, not to the Lower House or to the Upper Chamber. So that's a black box.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u32	But, Mrs Moonen, you just said it should have been started sooner. At the same time, you say that you do not want to judge the quality of the investigations. Does this mean that you want them to be completed quickly, but that you can't really trust the quality of the tests because you haven't seen them yet? How do you feel about the fact that they have even started, outside the framework of the State Coordination Regulation, which you say guarantees that they will be properly implemented?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u33	I think it is very important not to waste precious time in view of both the importance of the national security of our airspace and the importance of being able to install wind farms. That is why I say in my speech that I find it extremely regrettable and also regrettable that we have lost ten months. In those ten months, that alternative investigation could have taken place, and we would have been farther than we are now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u34	Mr Koole, the third.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u35	But that's not an answer to my question. My question was: do you think that these investigations should have been launched outside the framework of the State Coordination Scheme, while you think that the guarantee of careful investigation exists within the State Coordination Scheme?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u36	They could have been started outside the framework of the National Coordination Scheme. We'd have moved on by now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u37	And then you'd have had faith in it, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u38	I'd have wanted to see them. Then we could have seen the harvest and we could have judged it ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u39	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u40	The D66 Group considers it important to distinguish between the whole preparation of the research and the placement. What do I mean by that? The Lower House has passed the National Coordination Regulation on to the Upper Chamber. That's why we're talking about this tonight. There are two motions that have been adopted in the House of Representatives. The first motion, tabled by Mr Voordewind, states that an in-depth investigation must be carried out into the identification of alternative locations for the radar station and that the Chamber must be informed of this before "a kick in the ground'. How clear can you be? The other motion states that the Secretary of State must not only take any questions from the residents of Herwijnen into account when examining the possible effects of cumulative radiation on health, but also possible proposals to involve other scientific institutes. We as D66 supported both motions in the Lower House. These two motions make a distinction between all the preparatory research and the decision on possible positioning of the radar. After all, when all preliminary investigations are completed, the Secretary of State must return with all this information to the House of Representatives. This one should be offered there. There will then again show whether it is necessary to continue the substantive debate on this issue. Then it will become clear whether Herwijnen is indeed the only remaining and most suitable location for positioning the radar. This will show whether the results of the research on cumulative effects on health remain within the correct standards, for example for radiation. All this will prove to be the case before a kick goes into the ground at all, because that is the thrust of the motion. For our group, the distinction between the preparation and the placement of radar is very important. That was secured by both motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u41	I have a small correction and a question. Mrs Moonen just said it was passed through the Lower House to the Upper House. I understand in such a way that the First and Second Chambers both have an independent reaction to the proposal to introduce the National Coordination Scheme, and that it is therefore not a passage from the Second Chamber to the First Chamber, but that it runs parallel. That's a correction. Then my question. It's about the distinction between preparation and placement. I understand that thought, but isn't Mrs. Moonen afraid that you're simply creating a new trap, as we've seen so much in this process? We see that each time we are placed with fulfilled facts for something new, so we just continue to swim in that trap. What room is there, not only for the Lower House, but also for the Upper House in its own responsibility, to test that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u42	On the first point: the national coordination regime can only be applied when both chambers give their consent. In that sense, therefore, it is true that there is an independent balance between the two Chambers. On the second point, that of the trap, I am somewhat less concerned, because if we all take our own colleagues seriously in the House of Representatives seriously, I think it would be wise to do so. The motion actually shows that our colleagues in the House of Representatives are going to receive all investigations, such as those concerning the cumulative effects on health, but also that to all alternative locations. The motion also shows that the Secretary of State may not actually begin to post before giving the House of Representatives the opportunity to enter into the debate, if they so wish. If on any part it appears that it would not be sufficiently robust, if there were insufficient consideration of the health aspects, then members of the House of Representatives, our colleagues on the other side, could request that debate with the Secretary of State. So we are not in a trap at all; we are actually carrying out the motions that have been adopted by our colleagues in the House of Representatives for the sake of care.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u43	From this, I understand that Mrs Moonen thinks that if we were to reach a decision today, tomorrow or next week, the role of the First Chamber was actually played out and that we should leave it to colleagues, who are indeed always doing a very good job. What basis in the process so far gives her the confidence that this Secretary of State is doing so so carefully that we in the First Chamber should simply give up our right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u44	You have the premise that I would not want any additional commitments from the Secretary of State. Then I should like to finish my speech, because it is not that I do not want any additional commitments; they are still further up in my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u45	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u46	I now come to the citizens' participation. Part of the state coordination scheme, when deployed, is that the residents of the municipality of West Betuwe have a say and can also come up with suitable alternative locations themselves. Residents and companies can also initiate proceedings with the Council of State and continue to be able to object and appeal. The D66 Group attaches importance to good communication with the residents. Can the Secretary of State indicate how it organises the process of participation? That is a specific question to the Secretary of State. Finally, I would like to ask the Secretary of State for a commitment. Because this is about the health of the people in West Betuwe, because it is about the importance of the national safety of aviation and because it is about being able to rebuild wind farms, it is important that an orderly process is followed. The National Coordination Regulation and the implementation of both motions of the House of Representatives provide for this in principle. Then it will become clear whether Rewinnen is the only remaining and most suitable location for positioning the radar and whether all standards of health are met. For the D66 Group, it is important that the Secretary of State undertakes to account for the quality of the process during the deployment of the National Coordination Scheme. The Secretary of State has already given an oral undertaking in the committee that the results of all investigations that go to the Lower House are also sent and offered to all members of the Upper Chamber at the same time. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats calls for something extra. We ask the Secretary of State for a letter which shows how she has spent the last few months on the way in which proposals for alternative locations of residents have been dealt with and how she has responded to and cooperated in the participation of residents. This letter should be sent at the same time as the package of the results of the investigations to the Lower House and at the same time to the Upper House. Can the Secretary of State undertake this letter about that trial? I'm rounding up. I await the answer of the Secretary of State before going to the group with an opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u47	Mrs Moonen has a great deal of faith in the national coordination process. My question to Mrs Moonen is twofold. Does it also consider it possible, given that process which it is talking about within the national coordination regime, that this leads to studies, for example, which should lead to the conclusion that the construction of a radar cannot take place in Herwijnen, which could be a possibility, and that the process will be delayed for a number of years anyway? That doesn't rule out Mrs. Moonen? That's my first question. The second question concerns the letter from the Secretary of State. The Secretary of State has been asked to explain exactly how people and democracy are being dealt with in the context of good communication with citizens. What does that mean for the First Chamber? Then what does Mrs. Moonen think the First Chamber is going to do with that letter? According to D66, does that lead to a reopening of the debate or something else?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u48	Maybe first of all the question of whether this could take years. In the argument it is very clear that the investigations must now all take place and that these investigations are then offered to the House of Representatives within the National Coordination Regulation. To this end, as a group this evening, we have added a strong wish to make an additional letter which deals with how people are being communicated, both with their proposals for alternative locations and with the way in which they are being involved. That letter goes at the same time, with the package of results of the investigations, to the Lower House and simultaneously to the Upper House. That is our proposal. Next, it is up to our colleagues in the House of Representatives. They are the first to determine, on the basis of the results of all investigations and on the basis of the whole process description, whether they are going to request a debate with the Secretary of State, in which in itself all options are open again. Because that is also the content of the motion: no kick can go into the ground before the House of Representatives actually gives its consent. So they can request that debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u49	Do I understand correctly that the possible follow-up process in the Eerste Kamer is made dependent by D66 on initiatives in the Lower House?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u50	It is the task of the House of Representatives to carry out, in substance, the motions which they have adopted together, with unanimous support and a large majority. We must also give them the opportunity to carry out that motion. That is a very important motion for D66, because it is precisely by this motion that a distinction is made between the whole preparation, all preparatory investigations, and the placement. So the State can't go through with it all at once. No. When the Lower House members consider it necessary to call the State Secretary to the Chamber, on the basis of the results of the investigations, they have every opportunity to do so. This creates the cut between preparation and placement, which we as a group consider to be very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u51	Mr Koole, for a third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u52	I note that Mrs Moonen makes the action in the First Chamber very dependent on the House of Representatives. I would strongly urge that both Chambers should be self-employed and self-employed. This process is different from the legislation, as Mr Ganzevoort has already pointed out. Then it's temporary, here it's parallel. I'd really like to argue in favour of that. But my previous question was: does Mrs Moonen exclude that if the state coordination system is applied, it could lead to a delay of perhaps a few years?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u53	That depends. It works as follows under a state coordination scheme. When an alternative suitable location is established, then the state coordination regime stops at that time, because then we continue with that alternative suitable location. Especially if that has the approval of the municipality of West Betuwe, there is no point at all and there is no need to use the state coordination regime. It'll have to stop immediately. That's what the Secretary of State's letter says. At that time, when there is an alternative suitable location, which is also approved by the municipality of West Betuwe, we no longer have a state coordination regime. That would actually be the most ideal situation, because then you no longer need a state coordination scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u54	Mr Koole, a brief last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u55	Does that alternative location have to be in the municipality of West Betuwe?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u56	That's a good question. I think that would be a very good question to pass on to the Secretary of State. So far, this has been in the writing and the letters from the Defense Department, but I think it's an interesting question to ask the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u57	Then Mr Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u58	A very brief enlightening question, with, I hope, an enlightening answer. Does Mrs Moonen think it is a role of locals in a careful process to propose alternatives? Or does she say: no, in a well-scrupulous process it should be objectively considered for possible alternatives; that is what the ministry should do, in such an objective process, and not the inhabitants themselves, to whom they are asked "say where you want it, if you do not want it here."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u59	First of all, that question has not been asked: say where you want it if you don't want it here. There's just been an open question asked to the residents. Asking residents to think along is fine by me. I've already indicated that I find the trial very careless. I'm very critical of that, too. I also think it is wrong that we have lost very valuable time. By "we," I mean not so much the residents, but also the Ministry of Defence itself. It would have been logical if the Ministry of Defence from January 2019 that was also in my speech when the municipality of West Betuwe indicated that it did not want to participate in the modification of the zoning plan, had itself started looking for alternative locations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u60	Can I understand you in such a way that you say it was actually the role of the ministry? It is good that residents participate, yes, but I see that in the execution rather than in a complicated location choice, in which everything is technical. Now, do I understand why you're saying that I'd rather see things differently, but now that it's over, should they think along?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u61	Don't have to: they're invited to that. Once again, it would have been better if the process had foreseen that the Ministry itself would have taken this up from January. But other speakers have also made a lot of comments about this. Even so, it could have been done with a participatory approach together with residents. But then they would have taken the lead and the direction. That didn't happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u62	Thank you, Mrs Moonen. I would like to give the floor to Mr Koffeman on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u63	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to congratulate colleagues Dessing, Huizinga, de Vries and Rietkerk on their maiden speech. I listened with interest. Mr. Chairman. If the plans of Defense continue, the residents of Herwijnen who take a bike ride through the rural area will be confronted with an enormous radar. The cycle paths may need to be closed, because the radiation level does not allow recreational cycling or hiking at several tens of meters away. Goats, cows sheep in the adjacent meadows are approaching radar up to 20 meters. It is a serious breach of the quality of the environment, which raises the question of whether this is a good land use plan. The local population is very concerned about the radiation. Research by RIVM shows that the existing radar of the KNMI already causes a radiation of concern to people. Herwijnen has a stork village. The storks will be flying above the radar, which is dangerous. Less than ten meters away there is a unique bat colony in the so-called GeoFort, which is operated by State Forestry. There are studies showing that radar radiation can disorient the bats, so that the legally prohibited disturbance of the nests of these protected animals can block authorisation. Mr. Chairman. The resistance of the local population is growing. Our group wonders whether the Secretary of State will not enter a legal minefield if the adaptation of the zoning plan, the environmental permit and the environmental permit is brought into proceedings. Has the Secretary of State had an investigation into the risk that the plan could go down in the administrative court? Can the Chamber take note of the results of that investigation? Can the Secretary of State share it with us? Does the Secretary of State have a plan B if it turns out to be stuck in the administrative process? We believe that this is a real opportunity. Mr. Chairman. Our task as First Chamber is not to check whether the possible deterioration of the spatial quality and of the health and safety of people and animals is a legal obstacle to the implementation of the Defence Plan. The National Coordination Scheme is without prejudice to the possibility for interested parties to seek legal protection from the Administrative Court and for the State Secretary to prove that all requirements are met in that procedure. What we can now address to the Secretary of State is the way in which she communicates with the local population, or rather does not communicate. We hear reports that the information given is perceived as misleading and lacks openness. What can the Secretary of State do to remove that image of deception? And what has she done so far to take away that image of deception? That the impression of deception has arisen is not illogical if you look at the information provided about, for example, the capability of the radar and the distance of direction to be used from the point of view of safety. According to the guidance distance list of the VNG Publication Handleiting Companies and environmental zoning, a distance of 1,500 metres should be maintained in radar installations, while the State Secretary has reported that a distance of 100 metres is assumed. It is also a question of whether the information about the radar's ability can convince people who are reasonably thinking. According to the Secretary of State, it is less than 100 kW, while specialists indicate that the power of military radars is between 1,000 and 5,000 kW. Can the Secretary of State elaborate on that? If you look up the data from a similar radar, for example the AN/TPS-75, a mobile military radar, you think that a power of 2,800 kW should be taken into account, with outliers to 5,000 kW. That the power would be below 100 kW is unthinkable. The KNMI radar has a power output of 500 kW and it looks only 200 km away. That's not enough for navel staring, one would think. I'd like a response. The old aviation radar, which was once at its intended location, had a peak power of 1,200 kW. Perhaps the power at rest of the radar is low, but it is about the exact power when the radar is in use, with the peak values that can be reached. The Secretary of State must provide that information to the First Chamber if we are to be able to make a responsible decision. The same applies to the guide values distance which the Secretary of State said would be 100 metres, while radar installations are covered by the VNG Guidelines 1,500 metres. Now that the village is 800 metres away and farms are 300 metres away, the right information must be made available to make the right decision. At the points of power and the guide values to be used, the Party requires a clear and clear response for the Animals. The next item is whether we in the First Chamber can agree that, in order to push through its plan, the local government, which stands up for the protection of its citizens, should move aside and break into local democracy. The law provides that if national interests so require, the autonomous position of municipalities may be infringed. To this end, a well-founded decision must be taken. The National Coordination Regulation which the State Secretary applies here provides for the involvement of the Lower House and the Upper Chamber in the decision-making process. The position of the First Chamber is a special one. It is not a question of having to be consulted by the Secretary of State, as in the case of royal decrees, but of taking a well-reasoned decision on her own. Without such a decision, the Secretary of State's decision will not be legally adopted. Three decisions are dealt with throughout the decision-making process: the decision of the Secretary of State to break into local democracy, the decision of the First Chamber and the Second Chamber to agree and finally the administrative decision in the form of adaptation of the zoning plan and grant of the permits. The only question we face as the First Chamber is whether there are good grounds for breaking into local democracy. That starts with the fact that we have to check whether the Secretary of State's decision meets the requirements of any government decision implementing a law. Is there a careful investigation on the basis of this? Does it bear witness to a reasonable and proportionate balance of interests? Is it supported by sound arguments? The review raises the question of whether there has been sufficient research into alternative locations for the Animal Party. And is the continuation of the plan against the will of the local population and with a legally risky trajectory a proper balance of interests? Has the Secretary of State really been looking for alternatives? It is not clear from what has been presented to the Chamber to date. Has good alternatives been sought and why does the Secretary of State no longer take the time to look for alternatives if that has not yet happened? Can the Secretary of State offer the Chamber a research result which is a fair and transparent study of alternatives and which shows that, given the need to place a radar, there is no escape from the fact that Herwijnen will have to be chosen? We haven't seen that investigation yet. Without such a research result, there is insufficient legal basis for agreeing to the decision to violate local democracy. Mr. Chairman. As a Chamber, we must make our own decision. This is not a political assessment of whether we consider that the quality of the environment and the safety and health of humans and animals are sufficiently guaranteed, but only that we consider that sufficient research has been carried out and that there are sufficient arguments to give the Secretary of State the green light. We warmly invite the Secretary of State to provide that burden of proof, but we are not reassured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u64	Thank you, Mr. Coffeeman. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van Dijk on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u65	Thank you, Mr President. There's a first time for everything. That has been proved five times tonight by the five colleagues who made a maiden speech. I congratulate them once again from this place. Make it beautiful! The public case is more than worth it. Mr. Chairman. The planned placement of a SMART-L radar of Defense in the picturesque Betuwish village of Herwijnen makes a lot of noise at local and regional level. That is understandable, because it involves highly advanced and powerful radar equipment. Then you can't and can't go ice cream in the middle of the night. The fact that Defence initially did not have the citizens' need for transparent information on radar has not helped the whole process. During the debate in the Lower House the State Secretary received a large portion of homework. Each motion has been asked to examine the effects of cumulative radiation on public health and to include not only the concerns of the inhabitants of Herwijnen, but also scientific institutes. In addition, a motion has been taken over on a thorough investigation of alternative locations for the radar station and on informing Parliament about the results before the first kick hits the ground. How are these motions carried out? Can the Secretary of State indicate the latest state of affairs? A common concern is that the radar, of environmental class 6, also in combination with the already existing KNMI radar, provides too high a radiation level. Does the Secretary of State recognise that radiation is a danger to public health? Or does this remain within official limits? In the light of public health concerns, is or is there evidence of serious consideration of alternative locations? If so, which could these be? With the application of the mandatory state coordination regime, the government seems to want to cut the bend, while being asked to follow the royal route. It seems that, despite legitimate questions, Herwijnen will be faced with facts. That's not the point. Why did this binding procedure be activated? As far as the SGP is concerned, it's two and one. A: alternative locations are still conceivable and then a mandatory procedure is not at issue at the moment and then it has to be removed. This is based on the idea that the application of the National Coordination Regulation is only relevant if the national interest requires that radar can only be placed in Herwijnen. Or B: there are no alternative locations imaginable. In that case, the national coordination system is in principle justified, but we should not keep an open mind about alternative locations. And the Secretary of State is keeping an alternate location open. She doesn't rule out an alternate location, as I've always understood. Can the Secretary of State give us hoo-hoo or hoo-hoo? I hope that the Secretary of State will take our concerns and concerns from the people of Herwijnen convincingly away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u66	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. The Secretary of State says he wants ten minutes of suspension. Then I suspend for ten minutes; that's until 8:46 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u67	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u68	Mr. Chairman. Before I begin the substantive discussion, I would like to congratulate those who have made their maiden speech: Mr Dessing, who is sitting there, Mrs Huizinga, who is still coming in, I think he is on his way to Mr De Vries, Mr Arbouw, who is sitting there, and Mr Rietkerk, who is coming. I think you have all clearly indicated from your own background how you see your role in the First Chamber and intend to fill it out. I wish you every success in the coming period. Mr. Chairman. As you all pointed out, this is a special subject to be dealt with today in the Upper Chamber. It's a subject that affects a lot of people. They're in the public gallery, too. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Ik heb bij het debat in de Tweede Kamer daar de gemeenteraadsleden welkom mogen heten.]] There were also a number of children from the municipality of West Betuwe. It is an important subject, because there are many concerns. I'd like to start with that, too. I have heard a number of different interpretations of what has changed over the past period. I like to go back in time anyway. Mr Ganzevoort said that this does not have to be done, given the time we have tonight, but I think it is good to see how this process has gone and what we can learn from it. I think it is good to note that in 2012 Mr Ganzevoort gave it to the radars in his own speech. It was as simple as that. They were over 40 years old.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u69	I didn't suggest that we shouldn't go back in time. I even asked, where did it go wrong? So I think that's what we need to talk about. I said she doesn't have to convince us of the need for a new radar. That's just a waste of time. We all agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u70	Thank you for your support. I think it would be good to indicate how we started in 2012. As you indicated yourself, the route has been running for a long time. The radars had to be replaced from the point of view of national security. Then it was checked to see if we could keep the two radars we have now, in Wier in Friesland as well as in Nieuw-Miligen, there. As you know and as you yourself have seen in the investigation I have sent you following our oral consultation, which is also on the website, we have made a comparison. We checked whether New Milligen was a suitable location to stay or whether we should go to another location. In addition, we have made a comparison with Gilze-Rijen that emerged as the best military location. That is why the comparison with Gilze-Rijen was made. In addition, we made the comparison with Herwijnen, because there were already radar stations. That's not for nothing, because that's a very convenient location. This was also mentioned by Mr Dessing in his first contribution. You have also been able to see that New Milligen is not an appropriate location, precisely because of the threat to low altitudes. On one side you have the Veluwe and on the other side you have the Utrecht Heuvelrug. So you're in a bowl and you don't have a good view. That's why we went looking for a new location. That's what we wanted to shape. As Mr Ganzevoort said, we looked further. Then, indeed, Herwijnen came for sale. You could call that a coincidence. Whatever you want to call it, it came for sale. We checked whether we could purchase that land on the basis that it met all the conditions we had set: a good combination with the radar in Wier, good radar coverage at both high and low level, good reach over a large part of the Netherlands. Of course you don't just do that. You're going to check with the municipality first if they're willing to cooperate at all. If they say they are not prepared to do so, then you look further or you look no further. I can't go back into the spirits of 2015. But that's how the trial went. The then municipality of Lingewaal indicated its willingness to cooperate in a zoning change. An anterior agreement has been reached on the land purchase. That's how the trial went. At that time the zoning plan was made available with five views, two of which from residents and three from surrounding municipalities. Those three watched the local wind farms. Two people were right to express concerns. They've been answered. At that time we saw that in 2017 it was indicated from the then municipality of Lingewal that health concerns were being raised, also in response to questions from the municipality. They asked: what about it; what can we do with it? That was the reason why the GGD and RIVM also purchased. There were more questions and those were very specific questions about diseases such as ALS: how about that and can we answer them at all? As you know and as you yourself read in the letter from the municipality of West Betuwe, the municipality of Lingewal at the time voted against the amendment of the zoning plan. The municipal administration presented the issue neutrally, because it itself had gone from initially positive to very critical and therefore presented the question neutrally. When a new municipality of West Betuwe was formed, the municipality of West Betuwe sent me a letter, with copies to your Chamber and to the House of Representatives, to indicate that they were not willing to cooperate again on a zoning change. So we are not going to put that back into procedure. Secondly, they indicated that they have clearly two concerns. On the one hand, it concerned health. What about the cumulative effects, because we already have a radar of the KNMI here. And two, what about those alternate locations? Can you now present us with a study showing this? I spoke with the acting mayor and also with the responsible alderman, and said: I understand that question very well. Of course, research has been done, but I can't pull anything out of the drawer and say: this is the alternative research. If there is so much commotion, if the entire city council has voted against it and I am going to use the state coordination regime if both chambers agree, then I think it is important, precisely in order to regain confidence, that I can demonstrate that the investigation into an alternative has been carefully carried out. For that reason, I said: I'm going to do that wide-eyed alternative research... Mrs Moonen was just asked whether she could do it outside West Betuwe. Yeah, of course we can do it outside West Betuwe. I never said it had to take place only within the municipality of West Betuwe. I therefore feel it is an obligation not to look with a tunnel vision, as Mr Ganzevoort said, but to look with an open eye. I also have the considerations that Defence uses and which you have been able to read in a letter, including the time factor, which I have specifically mentioned. Putting in that state coordination scheme, we really do not just do that. This is the first time that the National Coordination Regulation has been put in place by the Defense Department, from a national point of view. That is also what the legislation requires of us. Then I think it is important that we do it carefully and that we also show towards the municipality and the province in which it takes place that we take the questions that live there seriously, whether from the board or from the residents. That is why we have already started that alternative research. I think it is very important that we do so in an open and transparent manner. Mr Janssen asked for this too. If there are any suggestions that we can include in that investigation, people can report them. That doesn't mean I don't feel responsible and I don't want to do the job. No, I think we should take it with us when people say that we have made all kinds of suggestions for an alternative location in the past, even at the time of the zoning procedure, but we have the idea that nothing has ever happened to it. Then we'll take those suggestions with us to see if it's possible. How has the balancing framework been used and what are we going to do now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u71	Something about those investigations that have already started. I have just asked questions about it and said something about it in my introduction. The Secretary of State now says they've started and she's also talking about care. Can the Secretary of State confirm that these investigations, which are currently under way before the entry into force of the National Coordination Regulation, meet all the requirements of due diligence?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u72	Yes, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u73	And that doesn't require this state coordination scheme to conduct careful research on these issues?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u74	Apart from a state coordination scheme, you always have to do the investigations carefully. The National Coordination Scheme will also be reviewed by the Council of State to see whether the scheme and the procedure have been carefully conducted and whether all guarantees are met. Indeed, that scheme is similar to a zoning procedure, but you take the decisions at once, from one body. Then it can be done faster and it is also clear to residents and drivers what is on the table. The fact that speed is also clearly an aspect in the interests of national security is also the reason why the national coordination system has been chosen. As I indicated earlier in an oral consultation, I cannot guarantee the operation of the current radars, given that these radars are now so old.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u75	Mr Koole, for the third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u76	I note, however, that the Secretary of State says that the investigations currently under way are covered by all guarantees. This could have been integrated into a state coordination scheme, but it was apparently not necessary for that. The studies are currently being carried out. I understand one of those investigations is almost done. They meet all the requirements of care, even without the entry into force of the National Coordination Scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u77	Yes, and those results are also included in the National Coordination Scheme. This concerns the justification of the location as well as the demand for health effects and whether you can meet the environmental requirements. In the last question you should also focus on the health effects related to the cumulative effects. It is not just the KNMI radar that is there, but also the traffic and a number of other aspects that have been put forward by both the municipality and the inhabitants.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u78	Nice that it happens carefully, but how careful is it if the criteria are placed on the website the day before the deadline? How careful is it if the search area is limited, without explaining why it is? How careful is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u79	From the moment the website went live in September, we tried to identify the criteria to be met by a location. That's what I reported in the letters I shared with you. I mention a good radar coverage of the Netherlands in combination with Wier, also because of the low coverage. Precisely for the sake of care, trechting has been used. We're not gonna stand in front of a map ourselves to see what a good location is. Models of TNO are being worked on. TNO calculates it and looks at what's going on. If the station is located next to a high voltage boom, the steel of that mast affects the radar coverage. Windmill parks affect radar coverage, as well as rail and road traffic. On the basis of all these aspects, there is a justice and a search area remains. You have seen that this is wider than just the municipality of West Betuwe. It was not possible to report it earlier than on the date it was published. Would I have wanted it sooner? Yeah, absolutely. Have we brought suggestions from people? The last e-mails that could still be taken, date from November 21st. Yeah, we brought suggestions. We had the balancing framework. We also communicated what the balancing framework was. But it was not possible to publish the picture that remained after the trechting, so early November.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u80	I understand that's what happens with moving insight. But what I don't understand is that people are confronted with new information on the deadline for the deadline they can still respond to. The message "this is the search area" is a different message than the message "all over the South Netherlands this is the only area where it can be done." In this argument, care towards us and towards the inhabitants has not become sufficiently visible. My question of care remains. I also asked about the e-mails. You are now mentioning a certain date, but on that point too, I am asking for care in communication. My question remains: how do people know this is careful?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u81	Because, ultimately, there is a report setting out how the process has been addressed and how the consideration has been made, both politically and in the way in which it has been reflected in a model. It also indicates why locations have lost weight. It shall also indicate which locations have been identified. A number of locations then immediately fall off because they do not meet, considering the combination with Wier. Without wanting to dive into technology, I would point out that it also has to do with the curvature of the earth. Is the location in a bowl or not? Is there a high-rise next door? All kinds of things have to be met. That is also why TNO is still calculating locations in the search area at the moment, as we speak. Are there any alternative locations that meet the conditions set by the Defense Department? Time plays an important role. I shared that in the conversation with the board of West Betuwe. Because time is running out, the National Coordination Scheme has been chosen and because from our perspective, Rewinnen was the appropriate location, precisely because of the questions I had from the municipality of West Betuwe. That was two of them. At an alternate location, the question was: show it. The second question concerned health research. If you use such a heavy agent, you must be aware of why you use it and what impact it has. If these are the two questions raised by the municipality on behalf of the inhabitants, then I must also answer them. I've already started that. I mentioned earlier in the debate that you normally do this in a state coordination scheme, but because I think it is important to involve the residents and the municipal administration and to ask them specifically if we have overlooked anything in our research regarding cumulative effects and alternative locations, I think it is important to simply put those questions on the table. If there is no answer, if there is no input, then that is also a clear answer. If anything gets out of there, I think you should take that into the investigation, too. This is also part of the implementation of a state coordination scheme. This includes ensuring as much involvement as possible of both the municipality, the municipal administration on behalf of the municipality, and the inhabitants. Mr President, this is a general introduction. I see that Mr Koole wants to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u82	I don't know if you're going to go into it any further, but you're saying that this state coordination scheme is important in order to do so. At the same time, you say that because of discussions, including with the people in West Betuwe, you have already started these two investigations. You have just said that they are very careful and are carefully carried out. Of course, as I said in my introduction, you do not want it to be pacifier research either. The whole Chamber doesn't want that, but the government doesn't want that either. So it has to be careful. You can do that outside the state coordination scheme. As we speak, TNO is working on one of the investigations. You wrote in your letter that an investigation might be completed in mid-December. That's in a week and a half. This study will therefore be completed outside the framework of the National Coordination Scheme. My question is, why don't we wait for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u83	Because there are two mixed-up discussions in this debate. I have indicated that we are deploying the National Coordination Scheme from a national interest. This can also be done within the Regional Planning Act. In this case, if you have a security interest to serve, it is the coverage of our airspace in the context of national security and also within the alliance................................................................................................................................................................................. That is a separate decision which the Chamber on the other side and your Chamber must agree to. Then there is a second aspect of the state coordination regime. Part of it is that you want to underpin the spatial decision. You can then see this in an integration plan, which must also be presented. The other part has to do with the permits, with all the environmental permits and everything you can think of what is necessary to achieve full authorisation. The municipality has asked for the justification of these two aspects, the alternatives and health, to be included. In any case, it would be part of the state coordination scheme, but given the unrest that has arisen.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Normally, these investigations might have started without placing them directly online with all sorts of things involved, but I think it is important to clarify as soon as possible, also in view of the unrest that has arisen. Some of you have also insisted on this. But the results are in any case involved in the State Coordination Scheme, because I also have to justify how I came to a careful decision, precisely in view of the fact that I am using the State Coordination Scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u84	My group's commitment is not that the national coordination system should necessarily not be introduced. It may well be that we agree that there will be, but then we must have the right information on the basis of which we can make that decision. Now there are two investigations in progress and one is almost complete. That is what our group is giving, but I assume that the whole Chamber will receive additional information in order to take that heavy decision of agreement with the national coordination system, which will put local democracy aside. Then we'll be better informed. There is no waste of time, because it will come in a week and a half. So it is not the case that I am in favour of not using the state coordination system. I would ask you to wait until the results of these investigations are available, so that we and the people in West Betuwe are well informed and so that the First Chamber could also take a well informed decision to approve that state coordination scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u85	What's your question, Mr Koole? Because this was a plea that was actually meant for your second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u86	The question is why there is no waiting for the state coordination scheme. That doesn't mean you don't want to, but the question is why you don't wait for it because then it can still be used with all due care.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u87	Glad to hear from Mr Koole how he is on the file and to stress the importance of having the right information so that he can take that decision on behalf of his group. The consideration of deciding on the state coordination scheme in June of this year was the importance of national security. We have two radars in the Netherlands that I cannot vouch for, given that they are so old. I hope they keep doing it, but if they fall out, I don't know what's gonna happen. Based on the information we had, we have decided that Herwijnen is a suitable location for us. That is why I have submitted to you the National Coordination Regulation. In addition, I have indicated that I think it is important in the context of the trust and involvement of residents and the administration of the municipality of West Betuwe to give as much transparency as possible when it comes to both investigations. Normally, this should also be part of the state coordination scheme. Because this discussion is ongoing with your Chamber, which is your right, this is now running parallel. The National Coordination Scheme has not yet been formally launched. That makes it a kind of double process, whereby we try to place the information we have on the website as much as possible on the front. Some of you have asked what we can learn from it. That is the point of communication and information. However, I am not yet going to communicate that we have started something without the investigation being completed. In addition, your Chamber must first decide on the state coordination regime. That decision on the National Coordination Scheme was taken by the Cabinet in June of this year on the basis of the national security interest in order to replace those radars as soon as possible. In view of the discussions with the municipalities and the inhabitants they represent, we have said that we are now going to conduct both investigations in consultation and cooperation with the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u88	How much does the Secretary of State regret that the decision on assent to the National Coordination Scheme may be delayed to a month for a few weeks?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u89	You indicate it yourself: perhaps a few weeks or a month. I don't know. What I stand for and what I am held to be is that I must be able to defend the airspace of the Netherlands. I'm dealing with very old radars. I have also indicated my concerns about this. I have also said that, in my contribution, I have not yet gotten to that. So your question to me should be: do you have sufficient guarantees in the process if alternative research shows that there is another suitable location that meets the conditions set? Of that I say: yes, then I stop it. Let me say that again. I have done so in the House of Representatives and I would like to do so again, because I have other information. I don't know what I'm gonna do. Then I have to think about it, but that is why I am doing this research with an open eye. This is particularly important in the context of transparency and trust.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u90	Madam Secretary of State, I very much appreciate your open-mindedness, but what I still don't understand is that you want to go into the state coordination system today with the idea in your head that things will be fine in Herwijnen. But then you have no prospect at all of the results of the two studies. They could be waiting for months. What's your answer to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u91	Mr. De Vries, would you like to speak through the chairman? That's good use in this room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u92	I never said everything was gonna be okay. You won't hear that from me either. I have indicated to you how the process has gone to date and what the intentions are for the future. It is absolutely not my intention to allow these investigations to take months, because I need them to come up with a preliminary draft. That preliminary draft is the first step in the system of national coordination, in the sense that I submit that preliminary draft to the legal advisers as well as to the province and the municipality to show that, on the basis of correct information, I have carefully prepared the preliminary draft budget and what choice I make in it. I have just indicated the urgency I see and why I want to use the state coordination scheme, namely because I cannot vouch for that radar. As we have now arranged it, Herwijnen is the appropriate location. But I have indicated that I am looking at possible alternative locations with an open eye.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u93	Mr. Chairman. Suppose you get a different location that is suitable, don't you think that other municipalities will see your actions as a pretty frightening image? In other words, isn't such a state coordination scheme a huge means of exerting pressure already, while the other locations aren't in the picture at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u94	I have no opinion on that, Mr De Vries, but I'd be happy to pass the question on to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u95	I have indicated to you why, as a cabinet, we are using the state coordination system, which is based on the importance of national security. That's also the basis you need for a state coordination scheme. Otherwise you will not be able to use it, and I believe that Mr Van Dijk will be flagged back early by the Council of State. Because you need to be able to support this, precisely because it is a heavy instrument. In my conversations with the municipality of West Betuwe these were two specific questions, as I indicated. How do you regain trust? Mrs Huizinga asked for that, as did Mrs Moonen. I think that's an important question. First of all, you do that by taking the questions that live there seriously and just answering them. I have indicated that this process should be improved, even if we look at the past period. In the National Coordination Regulation, you have that procedure in one hand. The CDA Group also made this very clear. Then there is also care and you have every guarantee that you can do this carefully. We're in some kind of intermediate phase right now. On the contrary, I think it is important to regulate participation. I think it is important for legal advisers to be able to leave a message. I think it's important that the city can take on its role. I think it is important for the province to be able to say something about it. All this is done within the framework of the National Coordination Scheme. If I do anything wrong with that, the Animal Party just asked me about it. Of course, I am being flagged back by the Council of State. And that is all the more reason to do it carefully now and to justify how I came to my decision-making, what investigations are going on and what results are there. Mr. Chairman. I should like to reply to the specific questions. There's a lot going on. I'm gonna try to answer all the questions. Some of it's overlapping. Mr Dessing, but you have actually asked for it all, asked about the cumulative effects. Two things are happening. The investigation is now taking place in the front. I have asked the municipality and the residents to provide input for the research question that has now been released at TNO. The House of Representatives has asked whether other scientific experts can also take part. That question is also open. It looks at the actual properties of the radar as it would now be placed. Reference measurements shall also be carried out on location. Before the radar is put into operation, of course, field measurements are also made. Otherwise, you can't use the radar. It is important that the research that is currently taking place should show that you meet the requirements, the ICNIRP standards. I won't say the full name, Mr. Chairman. That's true at all, before we start with any placement. As was said so beautifully, no kick in the ground. These ICNIRP standards are the national standards in force in the Netherlands, which have also been approved by the Council of State. When it comes to radiation, you have to meet those standards. Otherwise, you just can't get the environmental permits around. So that's the first step. The second step is the field measurements. The third step is that before the radar goes on at all, you still have to be able to prove that the radar is adequate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u96	Something just came to mind. You are talking about answering my question about the results of this cumulative radiation. As far as I know, the radar in Wier has been replaced before. Can we take the measurements we're taking there as a reference for the possible future construction of the radar in Herwijnen? Can the Secretary of State respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u97	There's only one thing that applies to Revines. There was a strong demand for the cumulative effects, in combination with the other radar there, as well as traffic over the water. Those two aspects that do not play in Wier have been specifically asked. What is important, you can see, because we posted it directly on the website, is that Thales himself has such a radar in Hengelo; on its own premises. Thales has said, on the basis of the measurements that have been made in his own field in recent years, wherever employees work, that there is new input. That is why we have received a new report from Thales, with new values. They have said: this is based on the measurements actually made in Hengelo. That is the way we work and Thales continually adjusts the data, to ensure that you do so not only on the basis of factory specifications but on the basis of actual measurements. Wier's under construction now, so I can't take any measurements there right now. We are going to use that, of course, but you will not have the cumulative effects that everyone in this room has asked for. There are concerns about that, and not just about this radar. There are also questions about this; especially if you still stay within the standards that apply in the Netherlands. This also means that we have to meet the ICNIRP standards at the front, otherwise you cannot apply for an environmental permit. Of course, we will also do field measurements when the kick goes into the ground and before the radar actually goes on. Then we'll show it's up to the standards. If it does not comply with the standards, it may not, because then you do not meet the requirements in the permit in which it is included. Mr. Chairman. Mr Koole asked me if I take the concerns of the people seriously. I hope that with my introductory words I have indicated how important it is to ensure that people can provide input at the front. Soon, when the investigations are complete and when the report is finished, it will be given to the Chamber, to the municipalities themselves, by simply making it public directly, with a walk-in evening or something, so that you give people the opportunity to ask questions, to see what can happen in it. So the most important thing is that you stay within the ICNIRP standards. Mr Koole also asked about the state coordination system. I believe that we have also dealt with this in the debate on the interruption. Mr Koole also asked about the wind farms and whether nothing can be done anywhere near Wier, Nieuw-Miligen or later in Herwijnen. Anyway, windmills affect radar. Even with the new radars we have, windmills are always a disruptive factor. It's about looking at how high they are and how many there are. The question is therefore whether this is acceptable. Do you still have good visibility, both low and high? In the case of surrounding municipalities that had also installed windmills, or the zoning procedure, this was explicitly addressed, because it was only a number of windmills. It has been said that this is acceptable to ensure that radar could do its job. When it comes to the wind farms planned in Flevoland, which Mrs Moonen also referred to, it is not acceptable if the radar would remain in New Mills, because it is 10% of the land requirement, as has just been stated. That is a considerable number, and that has highly disruptive effects, which would prevent the radar in New Milligen from doing its job. That look looks at all these initiatives for wind farms. What impact do they have on the operation of the radar and, consequently, on the coverage within the airspace?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u98	Without really wanting to dive deep into the technique, it is the intention, the national security interest requires that the whole of the Netherlands or a large part of the Netherlands is covered by that low radar detection? But it's precisely that low radar detection that prevents those big wind farms. If the whole of the Netherlands is to be covered by radar detection and even international waters, as I said in my contribution, because this is also part of the national security, where can large wind farms be built, both in Flevoland and in the North Sea?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u99	That is why, in a small country like the Netherlands, we should always look at the space we use with each other, and whether that can exist side by side. This is why Herwijnen has already been designated as a location in the Spatial Planning Decision since 2016, so that windmill initiatives could be taken into account and so that large wind farms could not be created in other places. It is, of course, a search, also above the North Sea, to see how you can ensure that on the one hand fishing can continue and that we ensure that there is wind at sea, as well as that Defence can have its training area and there is also adequate radar coverage. That's the question all the time. That is also the reason why we always have to watch and give an explanation of no objection when it comes to a location within 75 kilometres of such a radar. First of all, we want to make sure it has a disruptive effect on the radar. If that is not the case, then we will give a statement of no objection. But if it is, then the DOD won't give a statement of no objection, because we have that task. We need to see how we can complete both tasks, both tasks, so we can ensure that we are both sustainable and guarantee the safety of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u100	Does that also mean that there is no interference with the parks in Flevoland, for example with the radar in Wier, which extends to Flevoland, and that there are no problems there, whereas this would be the case in New Milligen? I'm starting to feel like it's been dragged in with the hair. It does, but doesn't it also apply to other locations? Why is that so important here and why not in Wier, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u101	It is also important in Wier, but I have just indicated that it is about how large the windmills are and how many there are. Windmills have an impact on radar everywhere. This is one of the latest radars we have, but they also have an impact on that. That is why we look at every plan submitted to us to see whether it is acceptable for adequate coverage, for adequate operation of radar, and thus adequate coverage of airspace. But also in Wier, and wherever windmills are, you will have influence. For Nieuw-Miligen, the big argument is not that it was because of the wind farms. The big argument has been that because of the composition, with on one side the Veluwe and on the other side the Utrecht Heuvelrug, you cannot have adequate coverage. I also said that I would prefer to have an existing Defence site, because then you don't really need all the procedures. But that's why we went looking for another location. It was later added that, also in view of the energy agreement of the previous cabinet, each province was commissioned to see what could be achieved on land. There are also plans for Flevoland, which is a substantial part. This was there when this was added. From a defence point of view, the reason not to stay on Nieuw-Miligen was clearly the radar coverage, apart from the windmills and the plans that were coming, because they came later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u102	Mr Koole, third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u103	So, if I understand correctly, is the Secretary of State saying that the windmill argument is secondary to the sightlines on the Utrecht Hillback, which are not good? An added criterion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u104	Your question was why we chose this as a defense at all. In return, I indicated why we decided in 2012 that Nieuw-Miligen is not really a suitable location. That really had to do with radar coverage. What then happened in the process is that the energy agreement was added in the course of the previous cabinet. Then, per province, we looked at where we can make windmills on land and at sea; although the discussion per province was mainly about windmills on land. This argument was also relevant. If the radar were to remain in New Mills, the wind farms in Flevoland would no longer be able to operate because of the disruption of the radar. Speaking of Defense, that's what I'm standing for and what you've been asking me about. This was the primary reason and reason. In addition, all the plans in the last period of time have, of course, become an explicit argument, because we now have to take this into account. Plans and agreements have been made with Flevoland and there is now a lot of work to be done to implement them. This is also a fact now. Only that wasn't the primary reason to say: we're leaving New Mills. I think it is important to emphasise that. That was added later to the Energy Agreement. Mr. Ganzevoort asked why the search area is so small. So that has something to do with the deed. It's still happening now. It's all calculated. It really works through a funnel. We have first established the policy frameworks and then we will continue to calculate them. I have just indicated to you that high-rise buildings, windmills and such like can have a disruptive effect. It's always about calculating whether it's acceptable, yes or no. That is always the balance that is being made. Mr Koole asked for Zeeland and Mr Ganzevoort asked for Limburg. It is not possible to fully cover the Netherlands with two radars. You have to go 400 kilometers up and 180 kilometers above the North Sea. If you would like to cover the Netherlands completely, you should have a few more radars. In view of the fact that we are having this discussion, I do not have the idea that the Netherlands can't wait if I come up with the request to place some more radars. That means we have to take care of it differently. At high altitude we have cover, but the vulnerability remains in those areas that you yourself have seen. That is where we are more vulnerable, and we are trying with our neighbouring countries to give substance to Belgium and Germany. But in that we depend on their cooperation. If they say "we don't feel like it for a while and turn off our own radar," then we have to deal with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u105	The answer is enlightening. It means that the State Secretary's argument about the coverage capacity is a relative argument. It is important, but it is not the case that we need maximum coverage capacity across the country, because we simply don't have it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u106	As far as possible, with two radars. I just indicated that I'd prefer to have one radar. I'd love for Wier to be able to control everything, but then you have limited vision. That's why you want a second one. I just indicated that for full coverage across the Netherlands you need a third radar. I do not see any immediate support for this at the moment, so I shall express myself diplomatically. This means that there is limitation, but it is therefore relevant that the radar in Wier and the radar provide optimal coverage at another location and that they are connected to each other, so that you can cover as wide a part of the Netherlands as possible. I showed Mr Koole through those pictures which part of the Netherlands is covering you. Of course, I'm willing to add Wier to that, so that you have that picture as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u107	More words don't always make it clearer. I understand from the Secretary of State's argument that she says that we are trying to cover the country as much as possible, but that is not entirely possible. This means that the argument mentioned by the Secretary of State in her letter must become Rewijnen, because Gilze-Rijen lacks part of the country... is therefore a relative argument, because Herwijnen lacks another part of the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u108	No, you have seen in the picture that Herwijnen provides more coverage than Gilze-Rijen, especially over the Randstad. A city like Amsterdam is not covered from Gilze-Rijen. This also applies to Schiphol Airport and a number of locations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u109	And with a number of other cities, it's the other way around, so it's a relative argument. I have one more question that the Secretary of State may be able to answer, namely that of funnels. The argument she makes in this respect is actually in the micro field. Where are the power towers? Where's the high-rise? Et cetera. I'm so curious about the funneling in the macro field. Why did she come out in the area of Herwijnen and not in other places in the south of the Netherlands? Is that trechting also clarified?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u110	Temptation will be clarified in any case in the alternative investigation. In it you can also see the search area, as well as that there is a broader view than just the municipality of West Betuwe. I have indicated that you can see that in the search area too, we have arrived at this location on the basis of the best possible radar coverage and good visibility lines, in combination with Wier. In the report of the alternative research you can also see whether other locations score better, or not. To the preliminary question how I got to Herwijnen, the answer is that the location was released when we were looking for an area. That's how two things came together. That is why no further research was carried out and the purchase was chosen, also because the then municipality of Lingewaal reacted positively. If the then commune of Lingewaal had not responded positively, something else might have happened. But that's a question I shouldn't have to answer to you. But that's why I think it's important to make it clear now. Mr Ganzevoort asked what legal text I am referring to. Mr Rietkerk has just given an explicit answer: Article 335 (1) of the Regional Planning Act. That states that you can deploy a state coordination scheme on the basis of national interests. A national security interest is taken into account. That is why the National Coordination Regulation has been added. Mr. Chairman. Mr Ganzevoort and also Mr Koole asked about the actual capability of radar. I have indicated that, when it comes to average radar radiation, that is below 100 kW. A very specific question was asked about the peak load. I cannot say anything about this publicly, but what matters is that the TNO study, when it comes to cumulative effects, includes both the average value and the peak load. Both must remain within these values, otherwise you cannot meet them either. It is also taken into account in the calculation that is now taking place in the context of the cumulative effects study, in which third parties are involved. Mr Ganzevoort also asked about the trial. I just indicated that this should have been better. When I looked back at the trial, it was initially positive. Questions were then raised in mid-2017. I can imagine those questions coming up. I also think it is important that the provision of information is as transparent as possible and what are the investigations we are talking about. That's why we created the website. We try to make the information we have available as much as possible. As an example, I mentioned the recalculation of the Thales report to show that this kind of thing is happening. I am looking back on that and I am absolutely learning from it that it is important to be as transparent as possible on the front and, second, to achieve maximum involvement on the front.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u111	It's very nice that the President is learning so much from the process, but it's going a little slow. This was discussed earlier in the letters and during the oral consultation. She had already learned this lesson by then. In my questions, for example, I referred to the document of 21 October, as the last overview of mails sent. As we speak, because we do it very transparently with livestreams and so on, I get emails tonight from people who say they didn't get an answer from the Ministry on their e-mails. Now it may have been sent to the wrong address, but I note that no answers have been given after 21 October. So what exactly has the Secretary of State learned when it comes to careful communication?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u112	The information that I know is that there have been 26 mailers so far, so 26 people who have sent an e-mail. Some people have sent multiple e-mails. In principle, they have all received an answer or at least an acknowledgement of receipt. It may be that more e-mails have been sent; I also received those signals. I don't know why they didn't arrive. Maybe it's an unusual call, but if you have mails from people who say they didn't get an answer, I'd be happy to receive them. But "radar station" or "radar stations" can be just the difference when it comes to the address. That could be an explanation. So I'd like to receive those e-mails. Everyone has received an acknowledgement of receipt. Many of the questions asked were mainly about cumulation and about alternatives. That is why we have said: we will come back to that when both investigations are there. Then we can make a validated statement and provide the basis for that statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u113	But how am I supposed to see the difference between the 26 e-mails you acknowledge having received and the 3 e-mails that were answered in the document of 21 October? And how am I supposed to see after that, living like this with people, nothing happens?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u114	The e-mails you have seen are the content of the e-mails. The e-mails that came in after that were almost all about cumulative effects and about health risks. That is why it has been said: we will deal with them at once, if those investigations are there. All the people who e-mailed us received an acknowledgement of receipt. If it isn't, I'd like to hear it, because that's the idea. If information were already available on certain issues that we can answer, apart from the investigations, we will of course do so. But as far as I'm concerned, there have been 26 mailers so far and the last mail of 21 November.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u115	Mr. Koffeman, is your question on the same subject as Mr. Ganzevoort mentioned? Otherwise, Mr. Rietkerk would like to join Mr. Ganzevoort. If that's all right with you, Mr. Koffeman, because you were first. Yes. Then Mr. Rietkerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u116	I have a supplementary question. In this digital age, especially in the case of a state coordination scheme, it is appropriate that there should be answers when there are e-mails. That's how a city does it. You will take the place of a municipality if we make a positive decision later. Can you promise that in that context the mails that arrive in a response note will come with a response, so that people know that it has been received and so that they also know that it may take a while before they get an answer about the peak load, as you just said? I would like a clear commitment to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u117	Yes. That is a point that Mr Rietkerk is right to make. The National Coordination Scheme has not been started. Well, we did start the investigations. It's a valid point. We will.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u118	The Secretary of State has indicated in previous letters that there is a capacity of 100 kilowatts. I understand now that the power of the radar has become secret. Can the Secretary of State indicate where and at what point the secret has become and whether that secret deviates from that 100 kilowatt previously mentioned? That 100 kilowatt is quite far away from all other capabilities of radars in the area and radars in other applications.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u119	That 100 kilowatt shall monitor the average value. You asked about the peak load. That's why I said I can't provide that information. That information belongs to the person who makes the radar. I have just asked you about this, in response to your questions. The core is that we have to meet both the peak load and the average value. They're taken into account in the calculation. I do not know which of you just said in a contribution that, for example, the KNMI radar is many times larger. I've given you the average value. I cannot report the answer to the question about the peak load in public. But I can promise that it will be included in the study of cumulative effects. Both the peak load and the average value are taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u120	Can the Secretary of State explain why the average value is not secret and the peak load is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u121	Then I must refer you to the person who produces the radar. I'd like to check that out for you. I can't answer it right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u122	If the Chamber has to make an informed decision, it must have that information. If you don't know what peak load it is, it means that you have to make a decision based on "no information." I don't think that's desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u123	A lot of sources have radiation effects. You must ask me if all these radiation effects together meet the values we have established in the Netherlands with regard to health. I'm running that investigation now. It examines whether both the peak load and the average values remain within the applicable standards. It is not just about radar, but also about ship traffic, for example. Someone called it. Many things have radar radiation. Mr Janssen has just mentioned 5G. That is also an important issue. Those things all have to do with that. With 5G we have no experience yet. So we can't include that in the investigation right now. Secretary of State Keijzer has made a commitment on this matter with regard to further investigation. But if that is rolled out, it will be taken into account to see if we meet the standards in force.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u124	A small supplementary question. I'm glad the peak taxes are being taken away. Can the Secretary of State also undertake that simultaneous peak loads of the different radars are included in that investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u125	I'm gonna check it out for you. I will return to it in second term. I assume so, because TNO does both. But I can't promise you that it's also about the peak load if we're all gonna make a phone call at the same time. At least I'll check it out when it comes to radar, because I think that's important. I'm moving on, Mr. Chairman. Mr Koole asked not only about the province of Zeeland, but also whether northern Netherlands is covered with Wier. Yes. I have just indicated that part of the Netherlands has less coverage, but that both northern Netherlands and the Randstad are covered. You've been able to see the tickets. In response to your questions, I will also send you Wier, so that you have the overall picture. Mr Rietkerk just asked all the answers to the questions of the residents. We'll give you an insight into that. However, it is clear that we are asking whether those who have submitted the question object to both the question and the answer being shared. I think I have answered all of Mr Koole's questions about wind energy parks. The question of whether there was no site investigation in 2012-2014 was also raised, in my view, also in response to a question from Mr Ganzevoort. Mr Koole asked for the highest standards. Yes, we meet the health requirements we have set in the Netherlands. These are international requirements, the ICNIRP standards, which the Council of State has said are common and can and should be used when assessing the health risks of radiation. I have just indicated that, in the context of a dossier such as 5G, there is an explicit examination of what that means. The ICNIRP, the international organisation, is currently reviewing its standards. It was supposed to be ready this year. I've been checking up on you. It's not ready yet. I don't know why, but at least it's not ready yet. To this end, we simply have to meet the latest standards. If these standards are adjusted, then the applicable standards will apply. They apply to everyone, including the Defense Department. Mr. Chairman. I think I have answered Mr Koole's questions. I have also largely answered Mr Ganzevoort's questions. Otherwise, I'm gonna take a look at that. Mr Nicolai of the Party for Animals asked for alternative locations. I think I answered that question. A number of questions have just been asked about transparency. We are already making public all the inquiries that can be made public on the website. So we are not waiting for the formal arrangement to start, but we are already giving as much information as possible. Mr Rietkerk also asked at the oral consultation to organise walk-in evenings as soon as possible, so that people can ask a specific question. I think that's an important fact. This can also be done if, for example, the draft integration plan is available for inspection. Mr Rietkerk asked whether we could not do something about the preliminary draft. I think that's a good suggestion. Formally we always do it later in the process, but given the commotion and the unrest that has arisen, it is good to explain as soon as possible. Then there are Mr Nicolai's questions as to whether this is a good spatial planning process.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u126	May I interrupt, Secretary of State? That's Mr. Koffeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u127	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. I'm very sorry about that. That's not good. Mr. Koffeman. Here's where I'm doing well. A good spatial planning process? Yes, because I just indicated the basis on which we are starting the spatial coordination scheme. Secondly, given the spatial coordination scheme, you simply have the conditions you need to meet. That starts with the preliminary draft. Then you have the design plan and then you have to comply with the environmental decision. The question was, do I have a plan B? The Council of State will test me. He'll tell me if I did it right. In that sense it is therefore all the more up to me to ensure that I provide the basis in a careful way and do the research in a careful manner. Mr Koffeman also asked about the VNG directive. The UNG Directive was drafted in 2009 with the argument: if you comply with those 1,500 metres, you do not have to provide any further justification. So you don't have to do any more research. If you deviate from the 1,500 meters you need to do further research, because then you need to be able to show why you are different from the 1,500 meters standard. We will include this in both the zoning plan and the procedure. We'll argue that, because you're looking at whether the radiation effects are within the standards and whether that's right. Then, as the Council of State has stated in various procedures, you may deviate from the 1,500 standard on a reasoned basis. This is a directive designed to make it easy for municipalities, provinces and governments to decide when or not to do further research. Mr. Chairman. The Party for Animals has asked why no longer take the time for open and careful research. As far as I'm concerned, we're doing that right now by asking for input at the front and by showing, when it's done, what has come out of it. So it's not a secret investigation or anything. Mr. Chairman. A number of members asked about the 1,500 meters. I told you, we just have to meet the standard. That's what we need to back up. Different standards apply, depending on the mode the radar operates in. There are certain standards for when radar rotates, and yet others for radar in a different mode. That has to do with the fact that, if there's actually a threat, if there's a missile somewhere that needs to be able to detect it quickly. This will not happen on a daily basis, but it will be subject to different standards, including in the field of radiation effects. You have also been able to see in the Thale report that there are different effects, but in any case the ICNIRP standards must be met. Ms Moonen indicated that it was important to get a feedback on how the process went after the investigations were completed. I think it would be a good idea to explain this. The effective participation will take place during the actual procedure. Then the studies are done, then walk-in evenings take place and then there are also the views and everything that is going on. But I think it would be good to return at least to how many emails we have received, what has been the main thrust and how to deal with it, including the alternatives that have been put forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u128	I am concerned that the Secretary of State is genuinely committed to showing how precisely all the residents' proposals for alternative locations have been dealt with, regardless of where they lie. After all, the search area is larger than the municipality of West Betuwe, so even if they are outside, we want to know how these proposals have been dealt with and how they have been dealt with by residents. So that's more than just a list of "I've had twenty or thirty e-mails." We would like it to be possible to conclude in the Second and First Chambers that the process has been conducted in an orderly manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u129	I will take the two things apart for a moment, because views will only come into effect in the actual procedure. That is also why I said that I can only do so at a much later date, once the actual procedure has started, provided that you decide to start the state coordination scheme or perhaps later, but views only then apply. What I can give you, so you must see my promise, is this. When I offer you the studies, both on alternatives and on health issues, I can tell you how many reactions there have been and how they have been included in the study. If it turns out that they did not meet, for example, the considerations regarding the coverage in the Netherlands, then I can also explain why they have lost weight. I can promise you that, but the views will come later in the process. I can't promise you that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u130	However, one more question to clarify, if I may. I just hear the Secretary of State react positively to something that sometimes happens in the country on complex issues, namely to discuss a preliminary draft with both the authorities concerned, the municipality, the water authority and possibly the provinces as well as the inhabitants. Such a preliminary draft could lead to a reaction of the inhabitants. If you take a positive view of this suggestion, can you also give an idea at that time of what reactions are being taken into account in the preliminary draft? This may also help to ensure that the process is transparent for the residents concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u131	I think that's a good suggestion. I also think that the municipality of West Betuwe itself, should we be talking about going down this route, would do so, but I think it would be a good idea to gather, pool and make it clear as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u132	I believe that the commitments made by the Secretary of State are valuable to see what is coming along and how this is carefully weighed up. Can the Secretary of State also explain to us what we can do as the First Chamber at that time?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u133	You can always ask me for a more detailed explanation, as I am standing here tonight. That's always your right. The same applies to the House of Representatives. Of course, he can do the same. When the National Coordination Scheme starts, the procedure will also enter into force. In particular, the municipality and the province are at hand, together with the inhabitants and all involved. I also mention the legal advisers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u134	That actually means the following. If we now agree to the state coordination regime, we can still get information, but we no longer have a say on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u135	The question to you is: will you allow me to start the state coordination scheme? You do so on the basis of the criterion of whether the national interest is sufficiently justified. That is what the Regional Planning Act requires when it comes to the use of the National Coordination Scheme. That is also the question before us. Mrs Moonen has asked if I am prepared to provide additional information. Of course, and the same goes for the investigations. The question to you concerns the use of the state coordination regime. That is indeed yes or no.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u136	Mr. Ganzevoort for the third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u137	Then it's clear to me. The commitment you have made to a number of colleagues here is a tissue for us to bleed. After that, as a Chamber, we have nothing more to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u138	It's good to realize who's going to get involved in the state coordination scheme. Those are the municipality, the province and the inhabitants. They have every guarantee in terms of participation, a careful process and review by the Council of State. That is how we have arranged for spatial planning in the Netherlands. The question before us is whether I can appeal to the national interest. In this case, it is a matter of national security. The radars are heavy over their time. I cannot guarantee adequate coverage of airspace. If the radar fails, I cannot perform my first constitutional task in full. I don't know when that's the case. I hope he does it for a while. That is the question before us now. You can always ask me for further information. I also promised it, for example, in response to a question from Mrs Moonen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u139	I would like to recall the Voordewind motion in the House of Representatives. With broad support from the House of Representatives, the agreement was made that a thorough investigation should be carried out into the mapping of the alternative locations of the radar station. Both chambers must be informed of this. At first it was only the House of Representatives, but orally it was promised that the information would be sent parallel to the House of Representatives before a kick hits the ground. This leads to a de facto distinction between preparatory research and actual placement. Both the Second and the First Chamber can ask you to come to the Chamber before a kick hits the ground. My question is to add a letter about the process. How has all the alternate locations been handled? My colleague Mr Rietkerk was right to say that participation in the preliminary draft should also be looked at. That comes before the point of view. That's what the letter about the trial should be about. The letter on the trial is part of the package that goes to the Lower House to carry out the Voordewind motion. That is how I understood the promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u140	I myself took up the general discussion report to see exactly what was promised. I just indicated what I can promise about the letter and the investigations. This is mainly about how the alternative locations and so on have dealt with them. Mr Rietkerk asked to include the preliminary draft. We can come back to that at a later date. That won't happen at the same time. The motion adopted in the House of Representatives was based on the commitment of the National Coordination Regulation. Mr Van Helvert of the CDA Group and Mr Voordewind really want certainty before the kick hits the ground. Once the preliminary draft and such have been completed, and the procedure initiated, they must be assured that everything is on the table. I have made that commitment, including in the framework of the National Coordination Scheme. You also referred to Mr Kerstens' motion. You can read that I have responded to this in the context of the National Coordination Regulation. You have a point to make. Before the kick comes to the ground, even though part of the procedure has been completed, the Chamber can always ask questions or call me to account. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Huizinga asked about the environmental category. Can there be a derogation from that? That is actually linked to Mr Koffeman's question about the 1,500 metres. As you know, a radar station falls into the same category as an oil refinery and a nuclear power plant. Only the dangers are very diverse, as you can understand. When both radars were installed in Herwijnen, there were always two radars from LVNL, which also worked at the same time, and there was a separate destination for them in the zoning plan. At least that's the information I received from LVNL, but I see an LVNL employee there. So that was not based on an environmental category, but a separate destination has always been given. For this reason, when the radar was for sale, another category was given to it. Mrs Huizinga asked if I agree that it cannot be pushed through. That's me, as I just said. It is precisely in the context of restoring confidence that I think it is important that you show that you can support the considerations that have been made, and that you can then show that you are making your decision. So, yeah. If the alternative research shows that there would be a much better location within the frameworks set by the Defense Department, then I would be, disrespectfully, crazy to push it through anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u141	Well, let's just say one thing. The Secretary of State says if there were a much better location. But I would say: if there is an equally good location, then that should also be a reason to consider it. It doesn't have to be a better location, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u142	An important consideration I gave in the letter on radar coverage is time. In my view, that is the second of the five aspects mentioned in it. I have also explicitly discussed this with the municipality of West Betuwe. That will be the balance between the question of whether alternative locations are suitable, I say in the direction of Mrs Huizinga.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u143	I understand that, but I took up your phrase "when there's a much better location." I understand that all these elements weigh in when you go to see if a location is appropriate or not. Many elements play a role in this, but if you find a location that is equally good, then that should be enough. That's all I wanted to say. It is therefore a question of 'a much better one'.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u144	With the context I just gave you. If there is a worse location, you will also understand that it is going to fall, but I have just indicated what the balance will be. Mrs Huizinga further asked whether or not the House of Representatives has agreed. The motions rejected by the radar station in Herwijnen or the National Coordination Regulation did not make it in the Lower House. In doing so, the House of Representatives has made its ruling, but questions have been put to me and conditions have been given, also with regard to the feedback to the Chamber. I say this not only in response to your question, but also in response to Mrs Moonen's question. I have always said in the Chamber, among other things in the debate on motions, that I also do everything in my power to give this clarity, including to the House of Representatives, within the framework of the National Coordination Regulation. Mr. Chairman. On Mrs Huizinga's point about the concerns of the inhabitants, I have already answered questions from Mrs Moonen, Mr Rietkerk and Mr Koole. Mrs Huizinga also asked: are you prepared to organise walk-in evenings and so on in order to provide more information? As far as I am concerned, this also happens in a way that is easily accessible, so that people can simply ask their questions. In this respect, therefore, I also make that commitment in relation to the preliminary draft. Mr. Chairman. I think I have already answered most of Mr Van Dijk's questions, because most of the questions had already been asked by his colleagues. Mr Van Dijk asked about cumulation and the state of play of the latest alternative research. As I said, we hope to be able to conclude this by mid-December. They're just working hard on that. The computers, the servers of TNO, are working hard to do all the calculations. The sooner that clarity can be given, the better, but it must be done carefully. I have explained your question about the RCR procedure. The letter from the municipality of West Betuwe and also from the conversation with me clearly showed that they were not willing to cooperate with the zoning plan again. That is, of course, their right, given the decision of the city council. That's how I answered those questions. Mr. Chairman. I think that Mr Rietkerk's question on the preliminary draft has been dealt with. The same applies to your question as to whether they can be taken, both at the time of questioning and later. I answered that, too. The same applies to the question of whether health surveys become public. You suggested that the expertise of the Home Office and the National Real Estate Company should be used in particular. That's what we're gonna do, of course. When it comes to this state coordination scheme, we are working not only with the Interior, with Mr Knops, now that Mr Ollongren has unfortunately been temporarily eliminated, but also with Economic Affairs, because they have applied the state coordination scheme more often. They are also in the project organisation. So we will also use their expertise. That's happening right now. You asked me again whether I agree that the environmental permit must comply with the legal standards. I absolutely am, because otherwise we just won't get the environmental permit. It's as simple as that. Mr De Vries also asked about the assets. That's what I've been working on. I also went into the cumulative effect. I said the investigation is ongoing. With regard to the deployment of the investigations, I have indicated that speed must be achieved from the national security point of view, but of course within the standards in force. The alternative research is ongoing. I do not know when you will have the vote, but I have not finished it yet, so I cannot comment on it. Then the KNMI radar. Did I look into that? The KNMI just has a license. It's applied for a permit for his radar, and it's right over there. I can't just come by there and say, here I'm withdrawing your license; it's going to be a DOD permit. In my view, then, we also have a debate here on the way in which defence is acting, which is suddenly withdrawing permits. Mr Janssen said that I said earlier that alternative studies could only be carried out within the framework of the national coordination system. I said that I am doing it myself in the framework of the National Coordination Regulation, because I think it is important to be able to make that speed. I have, of course, already started, because otherwise I would not have started the research on alternatives. But the results must, in any case, be found in the national coordination system. So far. Mr. Chairman. I think I've answered most of the questions, or I've forgotten something. Mr Arbouw stressed that the care of the process was paramount and that everything had to comply with the standards. I believe that I have also addressed your questions in the various answers. If I've forgotten a question, I'd like to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u145	The Secretary of State has not forgotten a question, I think, but I still have another question. Suppose, for example, we weren't dealing with wind farms. Could New Mills still be eligible as a location?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u146	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u147	So that's not a showstopper?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u148	No. That's what I indicated in the beginning. The fact that Nieuw-Miligen lies in a bowl and looks out for Utrecht's Heuvelrug and the Veluwe was the reason for the Defence Department to say: we are going to another place. This is where the debate on wind on land came in later. But the primary reason was precisely the location. That was considered a little less relevant 40 years ago, because the low threat was considered to be slightly less significant. At that time, we were concerned with protecting ourselves from a different threat. In the meantime, we know that with everything that has to do with drones and the like in the air, you must also protect yourself from other threats. That is also why this low threat is important and why New Milligen has lost weight.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u149	I think Milligen is at 36 meters altitude. We're not in the Alps or anything. So to what extent is that so relevant? Actually, it's kind of weird. The Secretary of State says the radar system is outdated and she can't vouch for it. But it didn't happen overnight, did it? That's a process of years, isn't it? Well, then we're dealing with inappropriate governance, aren't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u150	This process has been going on for a while. This process already started in 2008 with the exploration of whether new radars were needed. After that, site investigations were done. So this is not something that has happened over the past year. This is a process that has been going on for a long time, with sufficient consideration being given to the locations. At Wier it has been indicated that it is satisfactory, which Mr Koole also asked for. There is also the result of the research on New Milligen. Following a question by Mr Van Ganzevoort or Mr Koole during the oral consultation on that investigation, I also sent you this to indicate how New Milligen scores and why that fell. The latter has nothing to do with the altitude but how it is located when it comes to the curvature and the fact that the Veluwe and Utrecht Hillback are higher, while Herwijnen for example is flat. That is why Herwijnen scored well with a number of other arguments. So that's why Nieuw-Miligen fell off and that didn't have so much to do with wind farms at the time because that discussion came later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u151	Thank you, Secretary of State. Then I'll see if the Chamber still wants to speak in the first term. That is the case with Mr Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u152	A little ahead of tomorrow. I would like to give another question to the State Secretary which I do not need an answer to now, but which I would like to have answered tomorrow. And that question is what the combination is like with the wind-on-land forecast and this radar that is now planned. I heard the Secretary of State just now say in the debate that if it gets in the way of radar, there will be no explanation of any reservations. I can imagine that with everything that is now in the pipeline and for which SDE subsidies have already been granted, where perhaps not yet built but all plans are being made, this is something to put that against each other for a while. That is not your portfolio, but your colleague's. So I'm talking about everything that's going on in the wind on land versus once the radar is there or is going to be planned, which is no longer possible. Otherwise, we will have a very strange situation with two governments fighting each other. Maybe I can get an answer to that in the second term tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u153	I'm trying to understand your question. There is no question of wanting to fight each other. It is clear that all plans made around windmills located at a location of Defense, apart from this discussion about Herwijnen, are always tested by Defense. We fly and practice and do a number of things that can have consequences. Then we ask whether this has any consequences for the installation of these windmills. That is where we get the question about a statement of no objection, apart from the Herwijnen dossier. We usually do that in good consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u154	But this is a new radar station being planned. There are already a lot of ongoing tasks that are currently being planned. There is also proper monitoring. The last monitor on wind-on-land charts was from the end of April. However, there is a lot more going on. Once again, we do not need to have that discussion now, but I would like to see this answered tomorrow. It is therefore a question of what is planned in the wind-on-land forecast, all these plans are there and there may be overcapacity where things will have to fall off in relation to the newly planned radar station and whether that will cause problems, which means that on the other hand it may have to be slightly reduced if Defence will not give a statement of no reservations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u155	Mr Janssen raises a very broad question. He's pulling it wider. But perhaps I misunderstand your question. As long as this research is on an alternative, we cannot comment on certain applications. 'Cause imagine something else coming out. If we're gonna take this seriously, that's part of it. I also think that you cannot say anything to a co-government, whatever it is, at local level, provincial level or rich level. This is just supposed to be carefully completed. Only then can you give a ruling on whether you can agree to the projects that are there, whether on land, at sea or anywhere else.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-02-eerstekamer-3.u156	Thank you, Secretary of State. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. We are somewhat ahead of time, but I feel that some Members need to prepare for tomorrow's debate. So I suspend the debate for the night, until Tuesday 3 December 2019 at 10 a.m.
