ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-31.u1	Before you leave, I would like to draw your attention to the report of the Committee for the Examination of the Letters of Faith on the conduct of the European elections. I give the floor to Mrs Pia Dijkstra. Then there is the opportunity to congratulate Mrs Regterschot, who has just been appointed. I call Mrs Pia Dijkstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-31.u2	Mr. Chairman. I am standing here again as a replacement for the chairman of our committee, Mrs Leijten. There are 26 credentials in the hands of the committee. In addition, the Committee received the minutes of the session of the Central Voting Office on 4 June 2019. The Committee for the Examination of the Letters of Faith has carried out the tasks legally assigned to it. She has examined whether the elected persons can be admitted to the European Parliament under Dutch law. The committee has convinced itself that the elections have been lawful and that there is no reason to doubt the accuracy of the results found and the allocation of seats based on them. However, the committee has identified a number of shortcomings and calls for your attention to be given to the most important ones. For many voters, distance from polling stations, findability and accessibility is still a problem. In the Caribbean Netherlands, only seven polling stations were set up out of the ten that had been promised. It must be possible for visually impaired voters and disabled voters to participate independently in the elections. In this respect, a development can be seen for the better, but the end result is still insufficient. Voting passes and lists of candidates in several municipalities are not concerned with voters as required by the Election Act. A number of voters also reported having received a call card from another EU Member State. The possibility of voting more than one vote should be closed. The 50,000 citizens who sit at the polling stations during the election day deserve our sincere thanks for their commitment. The report shows that the instruction, the terms of reference and the level of knowledge of the members of polling stations require constant attention. There are times when it wants to be missing, as can be seen from the following. The distinction in voting passes, private power of attorneys, written power of attorneys and electoral passes does not seem to make up for all members of the polling bureau. There is also a problem with voting by or for people who are in court, because the line of action is not clear. The presence of observers at counting and, in general, media attention to the way things are going at a polling station appears to be new for many polling stations. It needs to be clarified how to deal with this. Counting the ballots and filling out the minutes also leads to problems. For the first time in decades, the Committee has therefore carried out a recount at three polling stations. The minutes showed remarkable deviations in the results, which could not be explained. The recounts showed in all cases that the elections in those polling stations were quite correct. It seems to have gone wrong in the polling station itself or at the central count, and in the report. In consultation with our committee, the Election Council has taken note of the results of the recounts and on this basis, the Committee and Council have been able to establish that the Board has rightly not carried out a recount on the basis of Article P 21 of the Kieswet. The minutes of the meeting of the Central Voting Bureau on 4 June therefore remain unchanged. On the basis of these findings, the Committee on Letters of Faith advises the Chamber: to prepare for a provision in the event that the recounting of an election in which the Chamber must carry out the audit is necessary, and I would just like to say that this is necessary in the context of the Second Parliamentary elections and the European Parliamentary elections; ask the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations to take measures to promote knowledge and skills of Presidents and other members of polling stations. Mr. Chairman. To sum up, our committee has shown nothing of the circumstances that could give rise to doubts about the accuracy of the result of the vote, as established by the central polling office. Our committee has shown that for all those appointed as Members of the European Parliament by the polling office, that statement has been made right. One appointed, Mr. T.H.P. Baudet, within the time limit set for that purpose, informed that he would not accept his appointment. This vacancy has already been filled by the Election Board by means of a new nomination. This nomination is now also being submitted to the Chamber for approval. The committee therefore notes that the following persons may be admitted as Members of the European Parliament. I call them in alphabetical order, with residence: M. Azmani in Dalfsen; T.B.W. Berendsen in Breda; M. Chahim in Helmond; P. van Dalen in Houten; B. Eickhout in Utrecht; D.J. Eppink in New York City, USA; A.A.H. Hazekamp in Etterbeek, Belgium; J. Huitema in Makkinga; A.M. Jongerius in Utrecht; E.M.R. de Lange in Driebruggen; J.J.M. Lenaers in Stramproy; A.J.M. Manders in Heusden; C.M.A.W. Nagtegaal-van Doorn in Rotterdam; K.P. Piri in The Hague; S. Rafaela in Uitgeest; R.J. Rooken in Muiderberg; R.B.S. Rose at Gate; H.J.A. Ruisen in Krimpen aan den IJssel; J.M.G. Schreijer-Pierik in Hengevelde; E.N.A.J. Schreinemacher in Amsterdam; K. van Sparrentak in Rotterdam; M.H.A. Strike in Dodewaard; P.J.G. Tang in Amsterdam; V.E.R. Tax in Venlo; F.C.G.M. Timmermans in Heerlen; and S.H. in 't Veld in Brussels, Belgium. Mr. Chairman. The committee shall propose to the Chamber that it inform the President of the European Parliament and those appointed. As usual, the Committee proposes to add the minutes of the session of the Central Voting Office of 4 June 2019 as an annex to this report and to send a printout of this report to the Minister and to the Permanent Committee for Home Affairs for information. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-31.u3	I would like to thank you very much, Mrs Pia Dijkstra. I'm gonna go over all of you later. I would like to thank Mrs Pia Dijkstra and thank the committee for her report and propose that we decide accordingly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-25-tweedekamer-31.u4	For now, I will suspend the sitting to congratulate our colleague from the VVD, Mrs Regterschot.
