ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u1	We can proceed immediately with the legislative proposal now before the Chamber: the Amendment of the Participation Act and some other laws relating to the elimination of discriminatory discrimination between second-degree relatives and others who have a common household with a need for care.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u2	I give the floor to Mr Gijs van Dijk of the PvdA to deal with this bill in the first term of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u3	Thank you, Mr President. You have just mentioned beautifully what legislation we are discussing tonight. In view of this, one might think on a Wednesday evening: well, it's a slight change in the Participation Act, it's a matter of technique, so we can have a brief debate on this and continue. But that is apparently because it is not. It is a rather fundamental choice that the Secretary of State and the Cabinet make for people who are vulnerable, namely those who need care. In preparing for this debate, I was reminded of an earlier debate we had here about people with disabilities and the plans that the cabinet had at the time to help people get to work. That would possibly be at a somewhat lower level than they were used to, but it would be an improvement for them. That is what I get from this legislation. What exactly is the ratio behind this law? Because what does this law say? That we are going to remove the exception we had for brothers and sisters, so that people who are sick, who have a need for care, who are cared for by a close friend that can be someone from the family or from the circle of friends and who are in welfare are reduced when an income test is made. Is there even another choice to make? Because the Secretary of State also writes in the explanatory statement: you can delete the exception, so that no one is an exception anymore, so the brothers and sisters as we know it now, or you can broaden the exception, namely to anyone who helps a neighbor and comes to live in because the care requires it. For those of you that is really an outcome: you can stay home longer, you don't have to go to a nursing home and you avoid the Long-Term Care Act. In that sense, I think it is, and hopefully the other parties think that is a perfect outcome? Let's help these people a little instead of giving them a push. And let's not delete that exception, but broaden it. I also ask the Secretary of State: why did she choose to delete this exception and not broaden it to help anyone who comes home? The Secretary of State also writes about the consequences that this might have. For example, because there is a discount hanging over their heads, people might eventually choose to go to a nursing home or rather ask for formal care. Has there been any thought about these consequences, about the consequences of removing this exception for formal health care? Finally, something that I find remarkable, especially after the discussions we have had about people with disabilities, where I have seen a Secretary of State who has come to terms with us and who, with this Chamber, has said that we need to rely more on trust in our system and that we need to look at the Act of Participation which is actually countering some people rather than helping; so a system that is built on trust rather than distrust. That's the Participation Act that I think we should get and which the Secretary of State is also working on, for example, because you can switch by regulations earlier, that you can fall back, that we help you as a government and not punish you by, for example, a reduction in your benefit. Why does she choose the shortcuts for this group? Surely it should be the case that, through the entire Participation Act, we give people confidence, that we help people who are vulnerable and that we also support those who come to live in the home with people who have a need for care? Where is the ratio and where is the spirit of the Participation Act that we found here in this Chamber a year ago? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u4	Thank you, Mr. Gijs van Dijk. Mr Renkema van GroenLinks has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u5	Thank you, Mr President. It seems to be a very small technical change to some social laws. It is legally, financially and in terms of implementation very clear, it is said. At the same time, we are talking about GroenLinks this evening about a very fundamental question: how do we judge the care of someone else who has a great need for care, how do we cope with their income when one of them gets a benefit? The French philosopher Emmanuel Levinas stated that it is not me but the other who determines our being. It's the face-to-face meeting with someone else where our responsibility begins, he says. The other one makes an appeal to us to perhaps stand in life in a very different way. But what if the other person has a need for care, a need for care? And what if you choose to take care of them? When the Rutte II cabinet threatened to introduce the cost sharing standard into the AOW, there was rightly a lot of fuss. It was called the "coat-care fine" because it would discourage care. That outrage was widely shared at the time. The cabinet was full of talk about the participation society, but when it came to the point, the elderly just got a discount when they went to live with their children. Eventually, the care allowance was cancelled, because there was no cost sharing standard in the AOW. Mr. Chairman. That indignation was somewhat selective, because such a care fine still exists in the Participation Act. Taking care of someone else is still very financially punished there. Already in 2015, a number of aid workers in Amsterdam made a black book with a whole series of examples of people who even ended up on the streets because family or friends didn't want to have them in their homes or maybe wanted to have them, but got themselves into trouble. And it turned out that those aid workers weren't worried about nothing recently. In ten years the number of homeless people in the Netherlands has more than doubled. And there are all kinds of causes in the background. One of them, especially among young people, is the cost-sharing standard. Parents can't just take care of their adult children anymore, because this can be at the expense of their benefit. My question is therefore: is the Secretary of State prepared to take a critical look at the cost sharing standard? And now she might think: Mr Renkema did not fully understand the bill, because this is not about the cost-sharing standard. But I and my group are concerned about the principle. That is exactly the same principle why we were against the introduction of that cost sharing standard at the time. If you think that people should take more care of each other and you want to encourage them, you shouldn't punish people financially if they do. And that's exactly what happens to this bill. If you're gonna run a joint household with someone who needs care, you're gonna be seen as married and you're gonna have to make a financial return for that. That's crazy, because you didn't make that financial commitment. After all, you're not married. You've only agreed that one takes care of the other, but not that you share each other's income and wealth. However, it is assumed that this is the case and that you can be greatly reduced on that welfare allowance. The case giving rise to this legislative proposal shows that it is actually a very crooked situation. Someone, a woman, who is lucky enough to have a friend of hers come to live with her to take care of her, is cut off from her welfare allowance, because that friend also has an income. That income is for a part the personal budget he gets from the same woman. In short, a pgb that is intended to provide care now serves as income for two people. I'd like to ask the Secretary of State to explain why this makes sense, because I don't see it. Mr. Chairman. Tragic and vulnerability are part of life. We all run into it. But the need for care in the Participation Act is very fundamental. These are only people who, because of a serious illness or disorder, are dependent on daily help, who also need help in general, daily life operations or who even need 24-hour supervision because otherwise they are a danger to themselves or others. It has already been said: inclusion in a long-term care institution is the alternative for them. The fact that, by definition, we are dealing with a very limited group of people is, after all, far from satisfying everyone's strict requirement of what this need for care is. It has no meaning in terms of cost savings. In addition, municipalities, as well as the Social Insurance Bank, indicate that it will be very complex and time-consuming to implement this legislative amendment. Can the Secretary of State tell us what this measure will cost and what it will cost? GroenLinks finds this measure harsh. A small group of very vulnerable people are hard hit because they take care of each other. I repeat: they get hit hard because they take care of each other. Someone made an apple and someone answered. Our government punishes them. I would also like to ask the confessional parties in this Parliament how they are going to support this policy. Mr. Chairman. According to Article 28 of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, people with disabilities have the right to a decent standard of living and social protection. In addition, according to Article 19 of the same Convention, they must have the option of choosing their own place of residence on an equal footing. But this bill is gonna make that difficult. People with disabilities can get worse in terms of income. As far as we are concerned, the bill is therefore in breach of that treaty. Does the Secretary of State share that analysis? I would like to comment on this point. Finally, Mr President. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, we are not going to lift the exception, but are going to expand it. Anyone who has a need for care should be able to rely on the exceptions in the Participation Act. We are therefore going to support the SP amendment, which is precisely this. The Secretary of State states that this would be contrary to the principle that assistance is a safety net. I would ask her to explain this further, because I do not see that contradiction. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, the assistance is a real safety net, too, no, for people who have a great need for care. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u6	Thank you, Mr Renkema. I now give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The reason for this law is a woman who was unlucky to have some cerebral infarctions. She ended up in a wheelchair and became dependent on care. With her personal budget, she hired someone who came to live with her and provided care. Well arranged, you'd think. But the city didn't think so. They were treated as married persons and thus the pgb budget of the health care provider was deducted from the benefit. The woman threatened to lose her financial independence, the caregiver could no longer be paid and this financial failure threatened the woman to go to an institution under the Law on long-term care, a nursing home, while she wanted to stay home. That is something our government wants to encourage, I ask the Secretary of State. The current law is such that only second-degree kinship, such as a brother or sister, would reduce the woman's benefit. The present proposal aligns the situation for second-degree relatives with non-kins. But this is not so that all the caregivers are helped, no, it is exactly the other way around: everyone is now being taken equally. Instead of meeting the wishes of people with a need for care, the Secretary of State abolishes the only positive exception that was left. What's in it for us? As the Council of State warns, there is a chance that this woman and her peers might end up in nursing homes. Some say the problem will be solved. The costs then no longer depend on the SZW budget or on the municipal participation budget. But nothing has been solved for this person. Where's the human size? The Secretary of State is hiding behind Article 18 of the Participation Act, which contains a so-called hardness clause which allows municipalities, in distressing situations, to tailor the assistance to the potential of the interested party, but the Secretary of State cannot mention numbers or examples of municipalities that do so. In practice, therefore, it probably hardly happens. Or does the Secretary of State have reliable figures on this matter? I'd like a response. Even in the case of the aforementioned woman with the cerebral infarction, the municipality has not used the clause for distressing situations. Somehow that makes sense, because the municipalities have to pay for the costs themselves. Does the Secretary of State recognize that? The Council of State mentions, as has been said, the risk that this law may lead to the entry of people into a Long-Term Care Institution Act. That criticism is not actually refuted. How does the government prevent people from going to such an institution? I don't think that's cheaper. And can the Secretary of State comment on the criticism of the National Clients Council, Each (in) and MIND that the proposal is not in line with the UN Convention on Persons with Disabilities? This is contrary to Article 28, which deals with the right to a decent standard of living and social protection, and Article 19, which provides for the possibility of choosing a place of residence on an equal footing. After all, staying home will no longer be possible for some people. Above all, the proposal runs counter to the standstill clause in the UN Convention, which provides that changes to existing laws must not lead to any deterioration. Do you acknowledge that this is happening now? I have now tabled an amendment to correct this misstep. At the SP everyone who runs a joint household with someone with a need for care is spared. In this way, we prevent people from having to move to a nursing home. In doing so, we respond to the criticism that has been expressed. Finally. It's a small group of people. So it's not about millions. Does the Secretary of State share that view? Mr Renkema also mentioned the relationship with the cost sharing standard. I totally agree with him. We also hear examples of people who are still receiving this so-called household allowance. I would like to use this debate to highlight these distressing situations and ask the Secretary of State to investigate the problems of chronically ill, disabled and family carers in the Participation Act. If you refer briefly to the hardness clause that I have just mentioned, that is not enough for me, as there is no evidence that this is actually happening. It would then be good to examine the use of that hardness clause, in addition to an investigation into the situation of chronically ill and disabled people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u8	Thank you, Jasper van Dijk of the SP. Mr Raemakers has the floor on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u9	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Today we are discussing lifting the distinction in the Participation Act between second-degree blood relatives, for example brother and sister, and non-blood relatives who share a household. In the law, two people who are not married to each other are considered married when they live in the same house and support each other in the cost of the household. For those so-called married people, account is also taken not only of equity and income, but also of the so-called partner. The standard for married persons is also lower than for single persons. The law has some exceptions to this. Care for a child, parent, husband or wife, so for the first degree, can be maintained with rights in the Participation Act. Of course, that possibility remains unchanged. With this proposal from the Secretary of State, one aspect changes when it comes to second-degree relatives, so when a brother and a sister share a home and jointly care for the household. They shall no longer be excluded from the marital standard. The Supreme Court held that a distinction between second-degree relatives and non-family relatives is discriminatory. In short, whether a live-in friend or a brother takes care of you makes no difference. That is the starting point. In its replies, the Secretary of State states that this change of law has no impact on second-degree cohabitants when there is family care. That's something else. Today we are talking about people with a need for care who are permanently dependent on daily help and are eligible for inclusion in a Wlz facility. For D66 it is important that customization is possible and remains possible in case of distressing situations, such as to prevent placement in a Wlz setting, because home care is always preferred if possible. I am also pleased that the Secretary of State has indicated that the general exception in the Participation Act, Article 18 (1), can always be used. The College may nevertheless adapt individual assistance to the circumstances of the case. I just have a few questions about that...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u10	Before you do that, I give the floor to Mr Gijs van Dijk for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u11	Mr Raemakers rightly points out that you should be able to ask a friend or another family member, because some people do not have or no longer have close relatives. Then you're talking about customization, but why can't we just broaden it? So we're talking about a very small group, with very specific care needs. Why does the coalition choose to delete instead of broaden? I'm looking for the ratio.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u12	This follows from a ruling by the Supreme Court, which said that the difference between second-degree relatives and others is unfair; that must be resolved. The Central Board of Appeal had made the choice to exclude the entire group, as the PvdA apparently wants. The Supreme Court has indicated that this choice is difficult to bear if you read it correctly, they say more or less that it does not tolerate it with not only the provision in the Participation Act that is about it, but also with the principle that the Dutch assistance is a kind of safety net scheme. If you cannot provide your livelihood, you can use the assistance. By taking the exception out completely, as the PvdA and other parties want, you may create new situations of discrimination and unauthorized inequality again. But that's also a question we have for the Secretary of State. So we still have a few questions about it, but we believe that this is the best way to implement the judgment of the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u13	Mr Raemakers rightly refers to the ruling of the Supreme Court, which I have also read, but that is somewhat strange to me. Of course, they are reviewing the legislation we adopt here, but if we consider that this issue makes it difficult to broaden the Participation Act, we as a Chamber can decide to amend the Participation Act. Isn't it a bit patient to think, "Oh, god, this is the law of participation; we may meet a group of people, but that's the law? We're dealing with the law here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u14	That is true, but we have set up the Participation Act in such a way that we give local government a very great freedom and responsibility to decide when or not to provide assistance. That is why there is the exception. I also think that the word "customisation" is very important. The frameworks that we have so far indicated as legislators go back not to the Participation Act but to the welfare laws that we had before, because I think this principle goes back to 1987. This principle says: we're going to see what you need and we're going to take everything into consideration, including the resources of the tax partner or the partner in the house and so on. That's all being taken into account. If Mr Van Dijk of the PvdA says he wants to amend that whole system of the Participation Act, I think he's in the middle of a major operation. Of course, we can discuss this at some point, but in the existing Act of Participation and in the framework within which we provide assistance in the Netherlands, I see no other solution than to resolve it in this way. But I do have a few questions about how this is going to be worked out, and I'm about to get started on that. Furthermore, I do not think that the transitional arrangements are sufficiently comprehensive at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u15	I'd like to wait for those more technical questions, but it's just a matter of principle. We are dealing here with quite technical legislation, which has actually been said at different legal levels that there is discrimination and that there are unequal situations. This is not about the system, it is about inequality. The Central Board of Appeal said: if you want to eliminate this discrimination and ensure that it does not happen again, you should not only maintain that exception for second-degree blood relatives in the Participation Act, but also broaden it to other groups in order to prevent discrimination. The Supreme Court ruled otherwise, after that congregation had gone into cassation. But that is the legal road, whereas the question we have to answer tonight is not who was right or what we think is legal, but what we ourselves consider desirable. Do we think it is desirable that a small group, which is still entitled to this derogation, should be dismissed in the Participation Act? Or do we think it is desirable that this group should be widened so that more people can give care to their relatives in this way? That is a fundamental question that needs to be answered before we get to the technical questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u16	I do not entirely agree, but in order to avoid repeating myself, I will explain to Mr Renkema what I think is important. That is the following: D66 fully agrees with GroenLinks that it should be possible to provide care. Let me put it this way: if placement in a Wlz institution threatens and the municipality can prevent this with a tailor-made solution based on Article 18 (1) of the Participation Act, the municipality must do so in my view. A good municipality will do the same, but the point is that in some cases that is not necessary. Then, for example, the wealth or income is very high. When you say "brothers and sisters we always give welfare benefits and for people who are not siblings, we don't do that," you make yourself guilty of discrimination. In order to lift that, I think you have to say: adapt the article of the law, but if that leads to anything that could lead to someone being placed in a Wlz institution, the Secretary of State says to the municipality "pass Article 18 (1)." I believe that in more cases than is the case at present, you can be customised, even in those cases where it is not second-degree blood relatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u17	Mr Renkema for a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u18	I note that D66 says: in a very complicated critical situation, where someone threatens to have to go to a Wlz institution, there is always customization in the municipality. I believe that immediately, but we're not talking about that here tonight. It's about rights and obligations in the Participation Act tonight. I note that D66 says: we do not really think it is important that this is regulated by the Participation Act, because we are going to eliminate this discrimination by putting aside the group that can still appeal to it, people who are related to each other in the second degree.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u19	As far as I'm concerned, we're not putting that group aside. I will also come to the transitional arrangements for the group of people who are now receiving this benefit. Maybe they've been getting it for 10 years, 15 years or maybe even longer. The Secretary of State proposes a transitional arrangement of 12 months for that group. Well, together with some other parties, we have said: precisely in order to help those people, we want to spare that group. For years, we all thought it wasn't discrimination, but now it turns out it's discrimination. We want to spare that group and what Mr Renkema is suggesting is not true. He's wrongly suggesting that we wouldn't want to do anything for those people. It is true that we say: we have to do something with this statement, we have to resolve it legally, and within the Participation Act, in which we give great freedom to municipalities, there is a possibility of doing so. I do have a number of questions about that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u20	That's where you left off. So continue your argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u21	Look, that's convenient. The Secretary of State calls that Article 18 (1). I am actually pleased to hear from the Secretary of State that this article can often be used by municipalities to apply customization to prevent distressing situations. But we hear that this exception has been applied in practice so far only in very special cases. Can the Secretary of State indicate in figures how often municipalities use this exception, even in many other situations? How can the Secretary of State ensure that municipalities are really well aware of these instruments? The Secretary of State says she's going to send this information with Municipal News. But can she explain in an active way how to apply customization to this rule, as perhaps with other similar rules? Finally, how can a person who thinks he is entitled to this exception under Article 18 (1) turn to it when the municipality says that it is not? Can you go somewhere? Mr. Chairman. Let me now turn to the transitional arrangements for the existing cases. In the answers to our questions, the Secretary of State states that the number of second-degree relatives entitled to the transitional arrangements is not known but is considered to be very small. However, this also means that this group is difficult to detect and may not succeed in the short term. So these are people who see their right to assistance greatly reduced but who may have been using it for years. I was just talking about deadlines of 10 or 15 years. Let's say you've been attached to a certain amount for so long, then it's really annoying when that suddenly falls. The current legislative proposal provides for a transitional right of 12 months. That was only six months at first. In doing so, the Secretary of State states that she considers it possible to clarify the situation in those 12 months. However, the discussions it had with the authorities concerned were not shared with this Chamber. It is therefore very difficult for us to judge that. What we are sure from the documents is that it is possible that only months after the entry into force of this law the interested parties will be informed of the fact that they will receive this lower level of assistance, while the 12-month transitional period will start immediately after the entry into force of the law. This may therefore start earlier and even earlier in some cases. We don't like that much for these people anyway. That's why, in the opinion of D66, you should be more generous. For the sake of safety, let's sit a little bit wider. Together with Mr Peters of the CDA and Mr Bruins of the Christian Union, I have tabled an amendment to establish this transitional regime at 24 months. In this way, we will solve the unfair distinction for the future, but we will do so with such a broad transitional period that it is always possible for both operators and recipients of assistance to be sure. Mr President, one final point. So we are solving this discriminatory distinction now, but there may be even more rules in the Participation Act or in other laws that may be considered discriminatory in the future by the Supreme Court or other courts in this way. So do we have any more provisions in our legislation on second-degree relatives that are unfair in this way? I would very much like to know, and if that is not known to the government, I would like to ask whether an analysis can be made of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u22	Thank you. But you cannot sit down again, because there is another interruption by Mr Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u23	I have another question about the transitional period. Mr Raemakers proposed an extension. I can imagine. But he started by saying that we don't know exactly how many people there are in this situation, where they are and whether they can be traced at all. This whole evening we are looking for the ratio of this legislation. What is the ratio of two years instead of one year? I understand the extension, but why not five years? If we obviously don't know where they are, and if the Secretary of State doesn't have the data, why don't you choose for five years, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u24	At least I found six months short, and I found 12 months tight, too. I'll also explain why. It has now been said that in 12 months it is possible to complete the whole operation to track down all those people. At least that's the assessment; we can't completely check that. So it may well take six, seven or eight months in some cases. This transitional arrangement has already started. That would mean there's only a few months left. We think that is an undesirable situation. We say: take 24 months for the whole group; then you always have that extra bit of slack. For the WW we also go to 24 months. I find two years in itself, even if a few months were left, a reasonable period of time. In any case, I think that is more than six or twelve months.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u25	A follow-up question for Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u26	The comparison with the WW is not entirely valid. The assistance really is the minimum of the minimum. At the moment when you may be faced with a discount, it may become very complicated for people to adjust the situation in the short term by any means. I imagine you say for this existing group: you have built this right and we cannot just take it away from you. At least we can say that we allow it to exist for the group that can now claim it. I also know it from many collective agreements and transitional arrangements.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u27	First of all, we need to apply customization. This can also be done in the post-transitional situation. Then customization can also be applied. Secondly, of course, the other person in that household is looked at, what is the income and the wealth of that household. In the end, therefore, it is always ensured that in the future these persons can simply live together in a good way, possibly with tailor-made solutions, with the exception clause of Article 18 of the Treaty. And if that gets in the way somewhere, the Secretary of State indicates that Article 18 can be applied. For example, if we make it five years, let's say, I think you're really gonna get into trouble with the meaning of the Supreme Court ruling. I think that's too long.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u28	The Renkema also has a question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u29	Yes, on the same point: the transitional period. I'm just trying to imagine what that could mean in welfare. Now, let me get this straight. D66 says she wants it to last two years. Now it's not clear who they all are. They need to be detected, situations need to be analysed and power tested. That's a very technical thing. This can then with retroactive effect have a huge impact on someone's finances. Or does Mr Raemakers of D66 now say that I am going to apply this new situation from the moment that the benefit is paid back? Do you understand the difference? Are you going to correct it or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u30	If I interpret the question, it is: what if in five years' time we find someone who has wrongly received a higher amount of money? When I read what the Secretary of State writes about customization and about applying Article 18, it seems very unlikely that this can happen. It seems to me that the municipality will say: then we will now apply customization and then we will not demand it back with retroactive effect. I'd think that would make a lot of sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u31	However, that is the current practice in the Participation Act, which is when there is a new situation, so if it turns out that the cost-sharing principle has to be applied, if people turn out to be living together and have not reported it and that for two or three years there has been a huge claim on people. I don't care about five years. You say two years. What if after two years such a situation is finally clear? Do people have to pay back in two years or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u32	As far as I am concerned, we have this two-year transitional arrangement. I see that the Secretary of State is actually instructing the executive parties there and says that it should be possible during this period. I therefore believe that it is the responsibility of these implementing organisations. They've agreed with the Secretary of State that we can do it in 12 months. We are going to extend the deadline to a little more than 24 months. But if it does not succeed even within 24 months, I would say that we should blame it on the executive parties and never on the citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u33	Thank you. That was Mr Raemakers of D66. I now give the floor to Mr Stoffer of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u34	Mr. Chairman. How do you, as a government, deal with two brothers or two friends who live together to care for each other? In recent years, the government has been very clear about this: we must encourage this practice. There was less room in settings and there just needed to be more cared for at home. But what if we have to make choices in welfare? Let me be clear: the SGP still supports the line that citizens who share a household, in whatever composition, are assessed jointly. If people can help each other financially, a government safety net is not necessary. But sometimes exceptions are needed. This safety net must work precisely if there are serious concerns and a great need for care. Let that be the case with people who are in the Wlz. My specific question to the Secretary of State is: can we assume that, under the Long-Term Care Act, for example for a couple, pgb is real enough to cover all costs? We have been getting signals over the last few years that this particular group is having a very difficult time. Anyway, the ruling of the Supreme Court makes it necessary for us to reconsider the principles of this law. Mr. Chairman. The government chooses to stop treating the family favourably in second degree. I even read in the answers that the government has not even examined any other options because that would no longer be the case after the ruling of the Supreme Court. Can the Secretary of State explain this remarkable sentence to me again? Because I believe that the Supreme Court has left the choice of a particular option to politics. The comments show that enlargement is also a serious legal option. I think the government has the freedom to choose one side or the other. I'd like to hear how the Secretary of State made these considerations. Mr. Chairman. The introduction of the Long-Term Care Act has given rise to a stricter criterion for assessing the need for care. However, anyone who gets an indication for the Wlz needs a lot of care. Why is this tighter access for the government not a reason to broaden the target group and also to help other forms of common housekeeping, as I later understood from colleagues' questions? I like to hear it when it's different, but if I'm right, the Wlz is about 20,000 people under 75 on an annual basis, but not all of them end up in welfare. So my question is very specific: why don't we try a few years of enlargement first? Mr. Chairman. The government emphasizes the distinction between family in the first and second degree. It is clear that there is a closer link with the first degree, but it has not yet been demonstrated that this relationship is so exclusive that the new exception will remain legal. I find the argument of the dependency relationship and also the freedom of choice rather lean. And what is the essential difference with the situation of two brothers who continue to take care of each other after their parents have disappeared from the parental home? And why is family in the first degree by definition seen as a cost dealer, when they are excluded from the common household? Mr. Chairman. You understand, on the basis of the current information, the SGP is not yet undividedly enthusiastic about this bill. In my view, I am also answering Mr Renkema's question: what are the confessional parties' views on this? I don't know if he's counting the SGP underneath, but if that's the case, I'm looking at it this way. Mr President, in conclusion. I look forward to the Secretary of State's response with interest. I'm very curious if she manages to pull something out of her hat to make me look at this differently or to really change this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u35	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. He spoke on behalf of the SGP. I now give the floor to Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan, who speaks on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u36	Mr. Chairman. Today, we are talking about an amendment to the Participation Act which ensures equal treatment for people applying for welfare benefits in the situation, which makes it a bit complicated to have a joint household and one of the two needs care, regardless of whether there is a blood relationship in the second degree. Colleagues have already said a lot about it. This exception of second degree relatives, such as grandparents, grandchildren, brothers or sisters, who wish to run a joint household if one of them is in need of care, is lifted. Actually, it's odd that that distinction was made earlier. In both situations, care is central to each other. The amendment adopted by this Chamber in 2003 and subsequently made law was not for nothing discouraged by the Secretary of State at the time. In the existing situation, therefore, blood relatives in the second degree are actually favoured over other people in a similar situation. The Supreme Court has therefore held that the current regime is contrary to the prohibition of discrimination. And you won't be surprised: this amendment of the law will receive our support. As far as we are concerned, assistance is the last safety net for people who really cannot rely on other means of subsistence. That is precisely the starting point of the Participation Act that is crucial for us. If you choose to run a joint household, you choose to live in the same home, to take care of each other and to both contribute to the cost of the household. Then it makes sense for the VVD to look at all the income in that household at the time someone applies for welfare benefits. Mr. Chairman. Of course, there may always be a poignant situation. As far as I and the VVD are concerned, it is also very good that the Secretary of State has made it clear that Article 18 of the Participation Act will enter into force, that the College will give the power to align the application for assistance with the possibilities, circumstances and resources of the stakeholders. So customization, because that's what the Participation Act is all about. The VVD insists that the assistance is really a last safety net that people can use. Abuse and deranged situations must be avoided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u37	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u38	We were talking about the abuse of benefits this afternoon, about prisoners receiving benefits from UWV. Here we are talking about a very different group. We're not talking about abuse at all. We're talking about people who are seriously ill. I'm just looking for the thought flow from the VVD. Because on the one hand, the VVD says: "We want to save on healthcare costs and want people to stay home as long as possible. That is good for those people themselves, because they want to, but it also saves costs." And they are, according to the VVD, quite out of the woods. Let it be just this group of people who are cared for by a good friend or by a family member, who need such heavy care that they can enter a nursing home. Then comes the other adage: we must be strict, assistance is the very last bastion, and there must be no abuse of it. But this isn't about abuse at all. This is actually the perfect execution of the VVD's thinking, namely: as long as possible at home, as much responsibility as possible, look for it in your own environment, don't look for it immediately with formal care. That is exactly what the VVD wants, and yet the VVD says: we are going to cut you short, because it is the assistance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u39	Yeah, that's basically our starting point. Assistance is the last safety net. Then you look at all the income in a family situation. Of course it is very nice that people choose to take care of each other; of course. But even so, welfare benefits are really the very last safety net. Then it is only natural that, if there are a lot of income in a family, you agree to the assistance of the person who comes and takes care of someone. There are other arrangements for the people with real need for care. This is not the purpose of the Participation Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u40	Mr Gijs van Dijk for the follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u41	I would ask Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan to look at the specific situation of these people. They are people with a heavy need for care, who are cared for by a friend. Maybe they don't have a direct family anymore. In the meantime, we come with the adage: it's the welfare, we have to be tough, we have to look at the joint income. I just don't understand that. I really don't understand that. It doesn't cost much either, because it's about very few people. Tonight we can decide to help this particular group of people take their own responsibility so that they can stay at home for as long as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u42	Mrs. Nijkerken-de Haan, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u43	Many colleagues have already said that this is really a debate of principle. For me, the welfare allowance is basically a safety net benefit, which you give when there really are no other means of subsistence. The same applies in this situation. However, I think it is very good, and that is why it is so important for the Participation Act to be based on customisation that a college can decide differently at a time when there are really distressing situations. But the principle of a safety net benefit remains unchanged. The Participation Act is about many more things. He is mainly concerned with how we can help and support people as much as possible towards work, so that they are again independent of that welfare allowance, so that they can really provide their own income. So that Participation Act is much wider. But the piece of assistance, giving a piece of income support, is for the VVD really a safety net benefit. As principled as you are in it, I'm in it the other way around.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u44	Thank you, Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan, who spoke on behalf of the VVD. I call Mr Peters, who will speak on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u45	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's nice to see that the speaker chair is adjustable in height. Mr. Chairman. In a judgment of 8 December 2017, the Supreme Court ruled that the exclusion of second-degree relatives when one of them is in need of care is discriminatory against other unmarried cohabitants with a caring partner. That's annoying for these people. It's annoying for all of us. I'd have liked to have left it that way. We have voted the same way in the past. But you can't. The legislative proposal now before us to put an end to this exception is therefore a logical consequence of this ruling and is also endorsed by the Council of State. The deletion of this exception means that a means test will also be carried out for this particular group, for everyone. The explanatory memorandum states that the legislative proposal will only affect a very limited number of situations. What is this position based on, I ask the Secretary of State through the President. These situations are not recorded by municipalities. In spite of the lack of registration, can the Secretary of State indicate how many people this would be approximate? The CDA considers it important that the municipalities inform the relevant stakeholders, so that they are not caught by this measure and the impact of this amendment on the stakeholders is as low as possible. In doing so, it is important for the State Secretary to point out to the municipalities that the colleges have the possibility, where appropriate, to tailor the assistance to the circumstances, possibilities and resources of the stakeholders. This is stated in the above-mentioned Article 18 (1) of the Participation Act. Can the Secretary of State agree to this? And when it comes to very few people, I ask through the President, is there any way to put this really well through the municipalities and say: if it is just a few people and you can arrange it this way, then this is a detour that is possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u46	There is an interruption by Mr Renkema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u47	I shall let Mr Peters' words touch on me for a moment. I know Mr Peters as an involved parliamentarians, who always stands out for the position of people in poverty, those in debt and those in trouble in our society. I also know the CDA as a party that goes back to a tradition where you look out for each other. And now he says here: well, it's annoying, it's annoying, but it's just a small group. I don't understand. Now, where did the CDA principle go to see each other? These are people who take care of each other. In my contribution, I said that this is a punishment for caring for each other. I would simply like a response from Mr Peters. How's he looking at this? This is not about customisation or a situation that applies to a small number of people; it is about a principle.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u48	It is very clear that people like to take care of each other and that taking care of each other is important. That is a starting point for me as a person and also a starting point for the party. As you say, it's also a starting point for yourself, Mr. Renkema. So if, for example, my sister had something wrong and I could take care of her, I would, too, at my house. Question two that comes to mind is of course: is there a financial problem for her, or is it not? If I have a Member's income, we can say quietly that there is no such problem. So I can take care of her and do exactly what I need to do. Should there be a financial problem, and now I would like to add to that customization, it would be painful, we would not be able to sustain it financially and be entitled to that benefit in the current situation, then that is possible according to that starting position. I would also ask the Secretary of State to confirm that in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u49	Mr Renkema for a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u50	There are two kinds of problems. Sorry, Chairman, just a minute. You could say, "I have a health problem." Then you can take care of that. You can also say: I have a financial problem. That's another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u51	Mr Renkema for a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u52	This is a very specific and indeed small group. Two things are involved. The first is that it is a serious need for care. It's not about people who can live at home with any support. No, it's about people with a serious need for care. It is also a question of people receiving social security benefits themselves. They are people who are related in the second degree; that has already been said. It could be a brother. It could be a sister. It can be a grandparent who is entitled to welfare benefits and provides a grandchild because there are no parents anymore. It's really about very specific situations. Now it has become legally clear that because this exception is in the Participation Act, others are going to say: yes, but that is actually discrimination, so we need to resolve this. This cabinet chooses to say: "You know what, we delete that exception situation. We're not making it possible for these people anymore. It may take another two years, but then they will have to suffer the pain of another benefit." Why does the CDA not opt for the other movement, which is legally perfectly possible? It is simply a political choice by saying: we are extending this measure because we do not want that discrimination, but we do see the need for care in the Participation Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u53	The question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u54	Indeed, the question is clear. Because, through the chairman, I say to Mr Renkema, we will then face up to new discriminatory problems. I would like to ask the Secretary of State, through the chairman, whether that assessment is correct. I think it's right, and then you can't do it. It would mean that we would have to amend the entire Participation Act. I really don't know what I'm getting myself into in that situation, practically and financially. I don't think it's necessary either, so that's the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u55	Just a little while longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u56	Finally. I don't think the Participation Act should be kicked. Support for the SP amendment is sufficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u57	Yeah, but I don't think that's legal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u58	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u59	Anyway, if it's different, I'll hear about it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u60	Oh, Mr. Van Dijk reporting for duty.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u61	In the debate occasionally comes back to the fact that it is not legally possible. It is not legally possible to do so, because a particular group is excluded. We can do two things. We can make it possible for everyone to broaden it or we're gonna delete it. That is legally possible and that is also stated in all judgments. The cabinet chooses to delete, but that's how you hit that group. That is, in fact, the distinction we have to make. We can also choose to broaden with the SP amendment tonight. I would urge Mr Peters to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u62	I understand that was the intention of Mr Van Dijk. It must be made clear that we do not want to see cohabiting relatives in the second degree abandoning a joint household because of the means test, and that this may lead to inclusion in a Wlz institution. That must be prevented. The principle must be clear. In this case, if care is needed, I should be able to take care of my sister as a Member of Parliament, who is fine by the way, but okay. If there is a financial problem, there must be tailor-made solutions. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u63	Thank you, Mr. Peters. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. The Secretary of State has requested a suspension of more than 15 minutes, so we'll continue at ten to nine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u64	The next item is the first deadline for reply by the cabinet. I am happy to give the floor to the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u65	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank the Members of Parliament for their contribution to this law. From a previous life, I remember that the more technical the title of a law is, the more likely it is that there is a very great ideological discussion behind it. That's a truth that's gonna pay off again today. I have seen this in the contributions of the Members of Parliament. I admit to saying that I think it is very nice that we are right to have such a debate in the first week after the recess. I listened very carefully to the contributions. I will try to answer the questions that are of different order, but often also of this ideology, well. Maybe a brief introduction first. I don't really have cubes today because there's been a lot of questions asked. After an introduction I would like to zoom in on the target group. That's what happened to everyone. There were also a number of specific questions on the concerns side of this issue and there were a number of separate questions raised by Members of Parliament. I'll take care of that too. First, I'm talking about the law itself. Today we are talking about the distinction that is currently being made in the Participation Act between cohabiting relatives in the second degree brother and sister have already come across... and other cohabitants in a situation that one of them needs care and the fact that this is contrary to the non-discrimination prohibition. It is prohibited, because of its discriminatory nature, to make a legal exception for second-degree relatives only. That is why the Supreme Court has ordered that the discrimination be removed and that the legislation be amended in this respect. That's ahead of us today. The cabinet's proposal is to delete the second degree exception. It eliminates discrimination against other unmarried cohabitants. It could have gone both ways. The cabinet proposal is in line with the basic starting point of the Participation Act. It is based on the principle that people, when they live together, also take care of each other. Therefore, the standard for assistance is also the marital standard. There it is very explicitly stated before the law that people will take care of each other. Other forms of cohabitation are similar to that. As Secretary of State for Social Affairs, I think it is important that I also monitor the long term of our system of provisions and also monitor the underlying solidarity. That also means that I have to see that I want to see that this is a safety net scheme for people who cannot provide their income in any other way. But of course I hear the concerns of some MPs about what this means for people who care for a blood relative with a need for care. I can tell you that this question has been of concern to me too. But opening the exception to relatives in the first degree as a solution to the discriminatory functioning of the law on this point is, as I have just said, contrary to the basic principle of the Participation Act, namely that, in a joint household, Mr Peters stated that visual property must be taken into account the resources of the partner. That is why this amendment is before us today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u66	This leads to an interruption by Mr Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u67	The introduction of the Secretary of State gives me two thoughts. I've received several signals from several members of the coalition. The first is that it has mainly been a legal consideration that this legislative amendment must be made. It would be a lot of technique. There's no other way, because that's how the Supreme Court decided. On the other hand, it was an ideological choice. This became most clear in the debate with the VVD. The Secretary of State also said: it is actually an ideological choice, because the assistance is the assistance. There's one difference. These aren't people taking care of each other. These are people whose need for care is great. That is not consistent with the normal regime of assistance, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u68	It was a reflection of me on the debate in the Chamber that I was allowed to see. I realize I shouldn't do that too often. For the Cabinet, it is important that the Participation Act, which is based on the marital standard, actually ensures that people who cannot otherwise provide their resources receive proper support. That's what this is all about. We can see that in this issue various discussions are mixed up, as is the case in people's lives. In Mr Gijs van Dijk's contribution I have heard the word'shorts' a number of times. The cabinet looks at this law from the point of view of equal treatment. That is why we come to a different weighting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u69	Mr Gijs van Dijk, second instance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u70	Equal treatment simply does not apply when situations are so different, and when many who have this need for care are already in a nursing home. We're talking about such serious care questions. It is not just a question of aligning this situation with the normal regime of our social system and our assistance, which, as far as I am concerned, should also be changed. That makes this a false discussion. People with a heavy need for care who are supported by a close friend are actually unfairly equated with people who are simply on welfare.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u71	This bill aims to treat brothers and sisters living together and one of whom has an indication for the Wlz equally with married or cohabitants who are not siblings, or with second-degree relatives. The Supreme Court has said that that provision is discriminatory. It has indeed been challenged and this requires amendment of the law. If we were to go in the opposite direction and open this provision to everyone, we would affect the nature of a safety net clause. This may be a small group. That's right. This is indeed not a financial debate, as I say in the direction of Mr Renkema, but a fundamental discussion on the nature of the Participation Act. It is indeed a very specific group, but it is important to clarify the fact that brothers and sisters are not treated differently than friends who are in this situation, or people who live together from an affective relationship or married couples. This will ensure equal treatment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u72	Mr Renkema also has a question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u73	It's just a quick question. It's a bit of a control question. Do I understand correctly that the Secretary of State says that this is not only a legal consideration, but also, and above all, a political one? After all, the cabinet could have steered both ways.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u74	The Supreme Court has indicated that there must be a change of law and that there are two possibilities. He also indicates that there is more probability in a different direction than the direction indicated by the Central Board of Appeal, namely a direction appropriate to the nature of the Participation Act. That is the importance that I too should bear in mind, I should just like to say as the guardian of the system. Because in the long term, too, we ensure that the Participation Act is a safety net scheme for people who cannot provide their income in any other way. Legally it would have been possible to choose a different route, but that requires a whole discussion about the Participation Act that is not ahead of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u75	That is clear to Mr Renkema. Mr Jasper van Dijk of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u76	The Secretary of State says it could have gone both ways. The Secretary of State now, in my view, chooses the hard, cold road, because the right to this provision now expires for a group. Then how does the Secretary of State deal with the fact that it violates the UN Convention on People with Disabilities, which states that there should be no deterioration?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u77	The fact that it could have gone either way is an analytical observation. The route chosen by the cabinet is certainly not random. As the Supreme Court points out, the Participation Act is of a certain nature, namely that of a safety net scheme. Where people who choose to live together, such as married persons, are subject to a certain standard of participation law, blood relatives in the second degree were excluded. The aim was, moreover, to ensure that the target group was not increased. When the amendment was tabled, it was stated that this was discriminatory. In the end, the Supreme Court has shown that. Because even then, the context of the then Work and Assistance Act was already under discussion. So it's not a completely random direction. Then there is the question of the UN Convention. As for others who share a common household, the standards in the Participation Act are the standards, and they are about the minimum standard of living. In addition, this has already happened a number of times this evening, through Article 18, the possibility of aligning assistance with the individual situation of people in distressing situations. Then there is also the question of transitional rights. That is why the cabinet does not consider it to be contrary to the UN Convention.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u78	If the Secretary of State has a preference for amending the law as she now puts it, that is her right to do so. But it must not deny that it is contrary to the UN Convention. This is clearly a deterioration for a certain group of people. The Secretary of State also acknowledges this and wants to apply the principle of equality and the safety net starting point and eliminate discrimination. That is why this direction is chosen. We shall see how the vote is going to work, but I note that the cabinet is choosing to pass the UN Convention on People with Disabilities, which states that there should be no deterioration. Surely it would be nice if you admitted that there was a deterioration, but that you chose this bill for your own reasons?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u79	The Supreme Court has said that we must remove an unjustified distinction. In addition, treaty provisions have been added which qualify the provision in question as discriminatory. With the current amendment, we want to comply with the conventions, which also apply to a much wider group. On the contrary, this Treaty obligation is aimed at preventing discrimination against the whole group of people with disabilities, whereas this measure merely aligns the rules of cohabitation with other groups that share a common household. That is why we have made this assessment. It balances it with equal groups and that's why we do it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u80	You were with the target group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u81	Yes, Mr. Chairman. A lot has been asked for figures, including figures on the number of people using Article 18 of the Participation Act. Mr Raemakers and Mr Jasper van Dijk asked about it. I can tell you right away that I don't have any figures on that. There is a certain logic in that, because Article 18 is really about customization. That also means that every situation is different. For this reason, no figures are kept. Mr Raemakers also asked what you can do if someone turns to the municipality on the basis of Article 18 and the municipality says: we are not going to do that. It is very important that the law is also drenched that individualization and customization belong to the basic principles of the Participation Act. The College should therefore also motivate it well. If a different decision is made, a person may object and appeal, and eventually go to court. As we also see in the present legislative proposal, in specific cases, this may mean that you are coming to the Supreme Court. Mr Raemakers also asked me, but I also tasted that wider, how we can ensure that municipalities not only know this, but also apply it. The city news came along for a while. In any case, I can assure you that the Gemeente nieuws is widely read in the Departments of Work and Income and the Town Halls. I will certainly use the Gemeente Nieuws to bring this to the attention again, but I will also involve parties like Divosa and the Association of Dutch Municipalities, because it is really important that policy changes are known to the performers. With regard to the target group, Mr Jasper van Dijk asked how many people would be involved in his amendment. Because we don't keep track of the number of people, I can't tell you how many extra people it's gonna be. However, broadening means that the right to assistance may arise for people who are not entitled to it, for example because the partner has a high income. Since we don't register that, I can't give you any figures right now. I've already answered a few things in the interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u82	You don't have to do that again. That's answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u83	No, that's why.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u84	Mr Peters has an interruption for you, perhaps even more. Mr. Peters.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u85	Yes, Mr. Chairman, more because of the numbers. I'd like to know how big the actual problem is. How many people is this about now? We do not know exactly, but if the amendment is adopted, you should be able to find out in the next two years, I think. How many people is it really about? There's probably not many of them. What is the real situation of these people? On the one hand, there is an image of: maybe it's me and my sister. That's not a financial problem, it's just a health problem. Are there any other problems? If these people are visible, you can agree with the VNG that those people will be visited and that it is excluded that there will be a financial noose for people that you can simply solve through Article 18.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u86	I'd like to dissect this question. We do not know how many people are covered by the current provision. Through the VNG, through Divosa and through individual municipalities, we have made a great deal of effort to ask who is covered by the current provision. We haven't been able to get any information on that. This makes it clear that it is not about large numbers, but more about the functioning of the law. It is unclear which new target group can emerge, also because of the question put by Mr Peters, namely whether it is possible to invoke discrimination from other target groups, for example because people who are married or live together say: hey, but what about me? That makes it difficult to answer this question. We could look at the number of people who have a Wlz indication. Mr Stoffer said that these are 20,000 people a year. But it's just the question what you want to know. Apart from the question of numbers, the cabinet remains convinced that the safety net function of the Participation Act and the fact that people can provide for their livelihood by other means are grounds for not granting such assistance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u87	I understand that very well, of course. But I was concerned about the current group, which may not be entitled to that benefit in two years' time. My question is very simple. I understand you're not gonna get those numbers right now, but you're gonna have to for the next two years. They're probably very few. Then it is still possible to visit these people and see whether there is a financial problem besides that huge healthcare problem or not. If the answer is yes, you can say to that municipality: Article 18 is there for a reason, success, you don't have to read it from a newspaper, but I'm telling you that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u88	Now I'm a little tempted to... Let me try. At the moment, I see in the municipal and social domain that there is increasing cooperation. I'm going to dissect this law to the basis of what it is, which is a financial safety net. This is without prejudice to the fact that municipalities are increasingly working to get people and their entire world in a better picture and then to see what law, regulation or hardness clause they are going to use to help this person. That could be a different law or arrangement. If there's nothing available, you'll always have Article 18 from the Participation Act. I cannot fully see how far we have a picture of this now. I can see if we can take this question back quietly, so that I can answer it more concretely in the second term. But the answer may still be that I don't know the numbers for the future either. I can see that municipalities are increasingly trying to bring this together, precisely at the service of people who need it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u89	The Secretary of State will return to this in the second term. Does that agree, Mr Peters?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u90	I'm sure it's okay. But finally, I am concerned not only with numbers but also with the principle. I want those people in the picture. If, in addition to a health problem, there is a financial problem arising from what we are discussing here today, I want it to be resolved.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u91	I think the questions are recognizable and I will try to give them a good answer in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u92	It will be returned in the second term. Mr Gijs van Dijk wishes to add a few words.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u93	Yes, Mr. Chairman, because I am concerned about that. We are all going to decide on a law here, while we do not know whether these people who have double dependence are going to get into the financial problems. We are constantly talking about equal treatment and equal treatment, but these are people who are financially dependent on benefits, but also dependent on care. We do not know whether or not the local authorities decide to help these people through the hardness clause. And we make the decision here as central government to do it. I actually think that's the wrong way to go. We should first have a clear picture of these are indeed good questions from the CDA about how many people we are talking about and whether these people have financial problems; I think so, because the assistance is not bullshit. In addition, they have a very different major problem, namely a health problem. Is it not possible to get a picture of this first and then to take a decision on deletion or broadening?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u94	The ruling of the Supreme Court came from a court case brought by people who felt that they were in a similar position but were not covered by that article. So it wasn't a brother and a sister who put this on. As a result of that statement, we are going to try to find out how many people are covered. We couldn't do that. That means they're really very few people. I'm afraid to make a statement about that, but they're really very few people. We have called a lot of municipalities, and we have gone to the industry organisations to find out who is covered in order to assess the scope, but we have not succeeded. So the number of people is very small. It's gonna ask municipalities to do that search. At the same time, this also means that the balance that exists here is not financial. I'm very transparent about that. And because we have Article 18... I repeat it to Mr Raemakers, who also mentioned it: we cannot make laws for very small numbers of people. That is why we need the local authorities' customization. Yeah, it can happen that someone in a specific situation goes through the ice with those care needs. So that's what the hardness clause is for. We cannot make a law that applies to all human lives. The character of the Participation Act is a decentralised competence, customization, motivation why you make a decision and look at the term of life of people. So I do not share the conclusion that this is precisely because we do not know the numbers, cannot. I would say: precisely because we do not know the numbers, we make this right choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u95	In any case, the considerations are becoming increasingly unclear to me. This is a very clearly defined group. These are people who can claim the Long-Term Care Act. And I can tell you, this Long-Term Care Act is pretty strict and it's about heavy care needs, so we can detect that group in a minute. We don't even know how many people they are, so how big the group is. The people who are there, we can save the way towards the municipality, whether they are benevolent or not. We can now take a different turn by making it possible for the whole group with a gesture that I think fits the need for care.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u96	With this bill, we want to align the situation of people who live together and who are now excluded with that of people who are married and therefore have said for the law that they take care of each other, and other people who live together. This is the starting point of the Participation Act. If you live with each other, you also take care of each other financially. If that doesn't work, there, even if you need care, is the Participation Act. Then there's the income provision. I also think it is important in the long term to implement equal treatment in the law, and that can only be done because we also know that we can deliver tailor-made solutions if we really do not succeed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u97	The Secretary of State continues to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u98	Mr Raemakers asked another interesting question, namely whether there are any other rules in the Participation Act that may be discriminatory. If I could predict that, of course, that would be very nice. I know that this amendment has already been explicitly described as discriminatory at the time of its submission, and that we look at all checks-and-balances as far as possible when submitting legislation. I also think it is important that there should always be a review by the judge, who will check whether the law is adequate in individual cases. We look at legislation and policies on a regular basis in the evaluation, and change them when they no longer meet. But there is also aftercare after placement in the Staatsblad. At the moment, I see no reason to review all the legislation. But here it turns out that we always have to stay sharp.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u99	Mr Raemakers has a question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u100	Yeah, specifically about second-degree blood relatives. That seems to me to be a rather specific group. The amendment has already been warned by the government: do not do this, because this may cause problems. I hope, however, that the second-degree blood relatives have been checked to see if we have not made this exception before for second-degree blood relatives in the last 100 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u101	I assume it isn't, but I'll check it out and then I'll come back to it in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u102	It will be returned in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u103	Yes. Then there are a number of questions about the care component of the question that is before us. Mr Renkema asked, among other things, how the pgb is used to provide sustenance. I think it is important, also in response to the questions that have been asked, to say that the personal budget gives the recipient the opportunity to buy in care. Someone else could have an income. If these people live together and the pgb provided would exceed the statutory general standard of assistance for married persons, then there is indeed no right to supplementary general assistance. Mr Stoffer asked if the pgb is sufficient for a couple; that is how I understood the question. If the pgb is lower than the norm, it would in this case be supplemented by the assistance, as follows from what I indicated to Mr Renkema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u104	I was specifically concerned with the high cost of caring for everything and everything that you have to deal with in such a situation. That could get you into a serious mess. We often get that kind of reaction. That's what I was referring to. Maybe you're above that standard, but you have all kinds of costs. Does that even mean it's still viable?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u105	This question often comes back, also looking at how the assistance has been built up. The assistance is made up of a number of standards for people's expenditure. Especially in the event that people need care, they can go up a lot. That's why you often see people using a lot of different schemes. Maybe I should check with the VWS colleague to see if it fits together. The Participation Act is intended to provide income, for example, for living, shopping and paying electricity and other items. The Participation Act is not intended for additional costs that you have due to an illness or to meet a need for care. This can be done, for example, from the special assistance. It can also be if there is a real problem, based on article 18.1, so if something goes wrong with someone in a specific situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u106	The Secretary of State takes exactly the point I am referring to, namely the integrality of all these arrangements. By arrangement it's all quite fantastic, but when you add it up, these people often get in trouble. The Secretary of State said she might need to talk to her colleague from VWS. If she wanted to make me that promise, I'd be very happy tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u107	Secretary of State, please make Mr. Stoffer happy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u108	This is indeed the subject of regular conversation, for example through the interdepartmental policy investigations we are doing, or because we are dealing with a law that we are both dealing with. So I think this is certainly a valid point. Also in the discussion about the different arrangements you can see that VWS and SZW really need each other. In fact, I do almost nothing in the decentralised domain without the colleagues of VWS, and not without those of OCW and BZK. You just always need each other. So I can at least guarantee that we will find each other on these subjects. I would certainly like to see if I can talk specifically to the VWS colleague about the accumulation of costs. I would just like to point out that I do not think that the general assistance, i.e. not the special assistance, is the primary instrument which is the solution in advance, because it is aimed at livelihoods.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u109	Let's talk about the example I came up with. It is explained how it actually works, but what does the Secretary of State actually think about the fact that people from SZW are entitled to welfare benefits and get a pgb from VWS, but that these two schemes then result in them being cut down, because it is seen as income? That's the situation I described. By the way, that situation was a reason to start this whole procedure. I understand, but what does the Secretary of State actually think?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u110	The pgb is a budget that someone gets to buy in his care, but in the example it is spent on someone for whom that is an income. If that's a person you live with, then because of the thought that the Participation Act is a last safety net, there's an income. The same budget has two characters and plays a role at two different times, but it is indeed income and therefore it also applies as a test for the means test.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u111	The Secretary of State therefore says: this is the way it works in the Netherlands. This is the result of people's decision to live together and take care of each other. So it's a punishment to worry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u112	I don't quite follow that reasoning. If that pgb had been, so to speak, care in kind, then the money would not have been visible and someone would have been given care. Perhaps a partner or not had a job and there would have been another or the same outcome. But by choosing the pgb you know that with that money you provide someone else with income. And if that person lives in your house and chooses to take care of you, the means test will apply.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u113	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u114	Following on from what Mr Stoffer has just said, I think it would be very good if this kind of regulation, which comes from different departments and which, for my part, ends up in very strange final situations, were properly analysed. I hear the Secretary of State say that she is in contact with VWS on this subject, but I have the feeling that arrangements here, in a specific situation, sometimes go completely against each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u115	The danger is that we will go into all kinds of cases, because I can never give an opinion on individual cases. But in this case, the alternative would be for someone to receive a budget to buy in care and that, because the person lives with that person, it is said: that is not the income. Then there would also be a welfare allowance, while it is the income. I don't really see that one either. The income that someone who lives with someone in the house is part of the means test. Mr President, I have two more questions before I come to the amendments. Mr Gijs van Dijk asked whether any thought had been given to the implications for health care. The use of the second-degree drug test with a common household and care needs does not automatically mean that people are forced to go to Wlz institutions as a result. The income at the level of assistance, I repeat, is and will continue to be guaranteed. This is also the case with non-blood relatives. I had already indicated that municipalities could apply customization, but of course I also spoke with my colleague from Health, Welfare and Sport in the preparation of the bill. They have indicated that the number of people potentially affected by this bill and thus with potentially increased Wlz applications is very small. Mr Renkema rightly recalled that this bill is not about the cost-sharing standard. That's right, but it's passed a few times. The cabinet believes that people who share a property, especially by law intended as a safety net, have economies of scale. It's not insurance, it's a safety net. We must ensure that the social minimum does not apply, but the cost sharing standard is justified, especially since municipalities can provide customised services in distressing situations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u116	If I understood correctly, the Secretary of State was at the end of her reply. I thought I left one more question, but I don't know if I made that very clear as a question. So I'm gonna try again. This is all due to the fact that a procedure has been initiated. My question, which I have also put in my contribution, is: are we not also at risk of the first degree being followed up again? Isn't that discriminatory, too? Is that legally so hard and so close? I don't think I've gotten an answer to that yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u117	As far as I know, I will check it as well, and if it is otherwise, I will say that in the second term. It is justified to lay down different rules for the first degree, because one has or has had a relationship of dependence. I also tasted from Mr Stoffer's story that there are many situations in the second degree in which there is the same dependence or sense of responsibility. However, in our legislation, we have an exception for people in the first degree in several respects. If we amend the law in this way, we do not think it can be said from the first degree: now we are being treated differently. At the moment when we open up the provision to all people living together like the brother and sister in the now amended proposal, I do think there is a risk that people from the first degree of kinship, living together, married people will say, "Hey, now we are being disadvantaged." Then you will indeed have a very different discussion, as I indicated in response to a question from Mr Peters.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u118	Clear, Mr. Stoffer? Mr Renkema also has a question that may have remained.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u119	I also got the feeling that we are going to the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u120	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u121	I have asked what this measure will do and what it will cost.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u122	Because the groups are so small, I can't say. We have not been able to find out which municipality currently has people who are covered by this provision. I therefore have no financial consequences for this at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u123	And in the sense of what he costs?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u124	What's it cost?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u125	What is it going to cost to implement this measure?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u126	The cost of execution?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u127	The municipalities, as well as the Social Insurance Bank, say that it is a lot of work and that it is time-consuming and complicated to do anything about it at all. They weren't really there to jump. I wonder how much it costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u128	Because a number of balancing moments disappear and the question is essentially whether there is a common housekeeping, yes or no, which does not involve all kinds of sub-questions, I am actually assuming that it will be simpler. But I'm just going to look at the implementation costs involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u129	The Secretary of State will return to it in the second term. We shall then proceed to the assessment of the two amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u130	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I come to Mr Raemakers, Mr Bruins and Mr Peters' amendment to item No. 8. In itself, we have been asked to lift the discriminatory provision as soon as possible. That is always a stretchy concept, but at least it is such that, at some point, if we take an x-number of years, we can again successfully appeal to the discriminatory nature of others; that is up to the Supreme Court. Of course, this is a very special group, which is not registered separately in the Participation Act. There really is a special situation. I also understood Mr Raemakers in his speech on the search for people. Since it is such a special situation, I leave the opinion on the amendment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u131	The amendment in part No. 8 gets judgment, Room. Amendment No 9 by Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u132	Mr. Chairman. The aim of this amendment is to reverse the proposed amendment and also to treat other unmarried persons who have a common household if one of them has a need for care as well as married.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u133	Apologies, Secretary of State. There is another question from Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan about the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u134	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The term is normally about 6 months. The Secretary of State explained in its bill why 12 months would be fair, also following consultations with the implementing authorities. This proposal, this amendment, now extends the deadline to 24 months. You yourself state that there is a risk that this long-term risk might be another reason to claim a discriminatory distinction. To what extent do you see the risk that if we extend it here to 24 months, which has a precedent effect on other situations in which we talk about a transitional period and that it is said: yes, but with that change it was also 24 months?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u135	I think it is right for Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan to ask for that risk. In any legal treatment, you should look at this: we're doing this here now, but what happens when everyone focuses on it? This also applies, for example, to a period of time. I have looked at the amendment, also in the light of the particular target group that is before us. This is a very special situation. In this situation, I consider the risk of a precedent to be small.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u136	Okay. Let us now turn to the amendment to item No. 9.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u137	I had just indicated the purpose of the amendment. The failure to delete those exceptions and their wider application to all other unmarried cohabitants at the same time is contrary to the principles of the Participation Act. The starting point for assessing whether a person is entitled to assistance or supplementary assistance in a situation of a common household is that the partner's financial resources are also taken into account. This is also the case with married people living together. The deletion of the exceptions is in line with the principles and the system of the Participation Act as a safety net for Dutch social security. This is endorsed by both the Supreme Court and the Council of State. Finally, the broadening of the exception to the combined economy has a budgetary consequence. For these reasons, I do not recommend this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u138	The amendment in part No. 9 has been dissuaded. This brings you to the end of your first term. I propose that we move directly to the second term of office and give the floor to Mr Gijs van Dijk of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u139	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. To respond to the last words of the Secretary of State: at least it is not my social security, I can tell you. We are having a crazy debate here tonight, about legislation dealing with a very small group of people with very specific concerns and in a very specific situation. Then the question is how many people are actually. The Secretary of State doesn't know that. Then the question is rightly raised from the CDA whether there are possible financial consequences that we can't see now, such as leaving a house at a possible discount. The Secretary of State doesn't know that. There are all kinds of things that we do not know, and this is a very vulnerable group, which is not only dependent on a welfare allowance, I can tell you that this is not a fat pot, it is also dependent on good care, and in this case it is provided by a neighbour or who provides support. For this particular group, with all the things that do not know, we make a decision as central government. The Secretary of State says that it doesn't matter, because they can always get their rights through the municipality. I can tell you that in such a vulnerable position you're gonna get straight, hold your hand at the municipality, it's already very complicated. And then it also depends on your own municipality whether you get any extra assistance or not. But then the Secretary of State has another solution: then you can sue. If necessary, before the Supreme Court, you can proceed to trial to get you justice. I don't think that's social security. I do not think that a social system that suits the Netherlands, which in any case suits my party, is based on solidarity and standing up for the most vulnerable people we have in our country, and those are the people who are sick. They shouldn't get kicks from us, they should get support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u140	Thank you. I call Mr Renkema van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u141	Thank you, Mr President. It is indeed a rather wondrous debate tonight because many things are uncertain. We don't know how many people we're talking about. We don't know what the consequences are. The cabinet has actually translated the ruling of the Supreme Court into a bill that causes some people to decline, and these are people who care for their relatives, for a close relative in the family. There is no legal need for this. The Secretary of State has said: we could have gone both ways. We are not going to support this punishment for worry. An extension which I have expressly advocated and which also provides for the amendment of the SP does not fit in the direction of this cabinet. That says: that is contrary to the principles of the Participation Act and also has budgetary consequences. The Social Security Act is not what GroenLinks wants to stand for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u142	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u143	Mr. Chairman. The objection to this law is actually expressed very well in the letter of the National Clients Council, Each (in) and Mind. I quote: "The cabinet constantly reminds its citizens of the importance of looking after each other and taking care of each other. It calls on its citizens to stay at home as long as possible, and then punishes those who actually look at each other and take care of each other by reducing their benefit. Instead of eliminating discrimination by applying the exception also to other unmarried cohabitants who care for each other, the exception for everyone is deleted." I can't say it any better. Perhaps the Secretary of State would like to comment on that after all. Mr. Chairman. It is quite clear that I am in favour of Amendment No 2. 9 for that reason. It also refers to the conflict with the UN Convention on People with Disabilities. It's a small group of people, for Christ's sake. The budgetary consequences - it has just been mentioned - are still unclear and probably not great. Those are all reasons not to do it like this. So that's very unfortunate. Finally, I would like to refer to a motion which Mr Peters will be tabling with me shortly, in which we call for the people who are going to fall between shore and ship to be able to go to the municipality. But Mr Peters will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u144	Thank you. I call Mr Raemakers of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u145	Thank you. It was a rather complicated technical debate today on fairly extensive legal issues, and we have not yet clarified how many cases we are dealing with. But it's obvious that we have to do something with it. It is also clear that, if there is a question of care, care must always be able to be delivered and that it must remain so. That is why I am very pleased with everything the Secretary of State has said today about the derogation under Article 18 (1). The Secretary of State has indicated that if they get into trouble and the municipality doesn't take good care of them, people can appeal and go to court. I would like to suggest that we monitor very closely in the coming year whether conflict situations or distressing situations arise in relation to the municipality. I can imagine that, for example, we will have a good overview of this next year around this time, because, hopefully, because of our amendment, the transitional arrangements will be two years, we will be able to adjust them in good time. Finally, of course, I am very pleased that our amendment, which gives people a little more air, has been given a ruling on Chamber. I was also very pleased that Mr Nijkerken asked if this would not set a precedent. I fully agree with the Secretary of State that this is really about a specific group. Precisely because this group is difficult to picture and has been using this for years, it is good to see this separately. Finally, I would like to point out that the judgment of the Supreme Court of December 2017 is. That was almost two years ago. So it is really not unreasonable to set that transitional period to two years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u146	Thank you. Mr Stoffer, speaking on behalf of the SGP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u147	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for answering many questions, but I am really in a split. The SGP is a party that says on the one hand: if you can take care of yourself, then you just have to take care of yourself. On the other hand, the government has to be there as a safety net if you can't. I'm not out of that gap yet. We are here tonight because of the ruling of the Supreme Court, otherwise I do not think we would have had this debate. Then you can make the choice to go one way, namely narrowing, or broadening the other side. I'd think: chart those two situations, find out what the consequences are and then make a choice. This is where the cabinet has chosen to join, and to work that out without, as colleagues have already mentioned, knowing exactly what the consequences are. At least it's not about a lot of money. It's a little about the principle. So I can't really say much else than: I'm going to sleep on it for another two nights and I'm going to carefully consider what to do with this. I just don't know yet, but I still think this is a very difficult situation even after the debate, and I really wonder: should I now choose the principle that people should choose for themselves as much as possible? And if it doesn't work out, you're just gonna go down the complicated road of Article 18 and so on? Or do I have to choose the people who are going through a lot of trouble and just sort it out? And maybe let's just say that we don't know that we're gonna cost a couple of euros. I am going to make that assessment and come back to that when it comes to the vote. I'm guessing that's Tuesday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u148	The votes are scheduled for Tuesday. Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan does not need a second term. I call Mr Peters on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u149	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for 'excellency' for answering the questions. We have one motion, along with Mr Van Dijk of the SP. She was written by hand. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u150	All that's allowed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u151	That's allowed? Oh, thank God.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u152	As long as it's Dutch.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u153	Yeah, most of it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that people who are currently receiving benefits and who live with a relative in the second line of care are not in the picture;]] [[noting that it is not in the picture which people are financially affected after the legislative change;]] [[Whereas municipalities can provide customised services through Article 18 (1) of the Participation Act;]] [[Asks the Secretary of State to meet with municipalities to:]] [[get a picture of these people over the next two years;]] [[to really speak to them;]] [[examine financial problems;]] [[to solve these with customisation where possible;]] [[and to keep the Chamber informed of these agreements and progress,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Peters and Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35174-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u154	I give the floor to the Secretary of State to answer the questions raised in the second term, the opinion on the motion and the two cases from the first period on which the Secretary of State was due to return.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u155	Mr. Chairman. Let me start with that, too. Mr. Raemakers asked Mr. Raemakers that was also a good check if there were any brother-sister relations on other fronts and if this could lead to the 'discriminatory' stamp. There is one other place where there is a brother-sister relationship, namely in the cost sharing standard, but the Central Board of Appeal has 'approved' the stamp, so we do not expect any discriminatory provision. I would answer Mr Peters' question about the numbers. So I don't have any numbers. I will also explain why it is so difficult to reach that group and determine how big that group is. That also has a relationship with the motion, which is why I shall come back to that later on in the motion. It's got to be about a brother and a sister. It must be people who have a Wlz indication, but still live at home. Either or both of them should be on welfare. So it's not about people with an AOW. It's not about people in the WIA, for example. And it has to be a common household. This indeed makes it very difficult to find out the numbers at local authorities in current cases, but for new situations it must be easy to detect. So I'll ask the local authorities. I will come to that later on in the motion for a resolution. Then Mr Renkema asked about the financial consequences of the implementation. The implementation panel of the VNG and SVB has indicated that the budgetary consequences are small, but given the limited group I outlined that it is very time-consuming to filter files from the administration. That is why we had opted for a transitional period of twelve instead of six months. But I can also live very well with the proposed 24 months.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u156	Mr Renkema has another question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u157	Well, I haven't gotten an answer yet. I understand the relationship with the transitional period, but I asked what the cost of implementing this measure is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u158	They are not such that they have played a role in the front of the bill, because they are so few files.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u159	I understand that, but that just means it's not known.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u160	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u161	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u162	Mr. Chairman. I come to the motion by Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Peters on item No. 10. I want to give that motion judgment chamber. I think it's important to get real people in the next year and talk to them as well. I'm in favour of that anyway. I am also discussing this with the VNG in order to implement this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u163	The motion in part No. 10 gets judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u164	Mr. Chairman. I think I have answered the questions of the Chamber. I should like to make a few points myself in the second term in response to a number of comments I have heard. For example, Mr Renkema said that there is no legal need. I heard that from several groups. I would really like to emphasise here that the choice of the cabinet is not at all arbitrary. This has been given direction by the Supreme Court, looking at the character of the Participation Act. The Central Appeals Board has also expressly ruled on this. I also feel the guardian of this system. I really want to emphasize this here, also in the direction of Mr Stoffer. It is also about the long-term interest. As sympathetic as an individual measure may seem and as hard as it seems to be to say "we do not," it is important to maintain our welfare system, the safety net that we can offer to people who cannot provide their income in any other way. It is a question of solidarity, but also of sustainability. Let me be clear: I think it is desirable for people to take care of each other. But if we are going to use the Participation Act for that, if we are going to use the character of the Participation Act as a safety net as additional guidance on what we consider desirable, then it is now the Wlz indication, but then it can also be other, highly desirable forms that we have all kinds of discussions about. Then, for example, in a number of years' time, we will have to look at what happened to the AWBZ, although I should not actually make that kind of equations. If you're gonna have to cut it, who's gonna end up getting hurt? My experience is: the people for whom the law was originally intended. I think it is important that you can apply for welfare benefits in the Netherlands with a raised head and right, if you do not manage to provide your income in another way. I say to Mr Stoffer that if people fall below the social minimum because they have this need for care, they can also claim public support in the future situation. If it is necessary that that is more, it can be done through Article 18. That is also the long-term interest of this law. I must now defend a message which may not sound desirable, but which I consider to be of great importance in the long term in maintaining this wonderful provision of this wonderful provision. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u165	Okay, I see two more interruptions. You had reached the end of your second term, but we are not quite there yet. Mr Gijs van Dijk for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u166	I'd almost say live the cold-blooded welfare regime. That's not funny. There is now at the end of the debate a kind of speech which I really do not understand and which really makes me a little angry. On the one hand, the Central Board of Appeal says: you need to broaden. The Supreme Court overrulet with a legal argument: no, you have to delete that whole exception. In this debate, the Secretary of State acknowledges that it is ultimately an ideological choice of this cabinet. An ideological choice of this cabinet while the cabinet does not know who the people are. While the Cabinet doesn't know what the financial consequences will be for these people. This Secretary of State has just said in an interruption of the CDA: I am going to consult with VWS, because perhaps there will be some problems about the need for care later. Consultation, but there is still no clarity. There is no clarity for these vulnerable people. At the end, we will then have a kind of argument about the importance of equal treatment of assistance. This is a specific group that deserves a specific treatment and not so much uncertainty and quatsch. Really, it's quatsch. It simply does not deserve good legislation. I'm really moving away from that. In fact, every input from the Chamber here is wiped out: this is all the assistance, live the assistance. Well, I really don't believe in that this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u167	It was certainly inspired by Mr Gijs van Dijk's comment, who said: this is not my social security. I would like to say here that I am in favour of social security and I am also prepared to make choices for it which may not be fun in the short term, where we are dealing with what can be done with customization, but which, in the long term, make it possible for people to claim it. That has been the reason for my final words. I would not like to leave this debate without saying something about the arbitrary direction or the type of social security I am defending here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u168	Mr Van Dijk, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u169	This very small group of people, of whom we do not know how many they are, and the limited budget threatening them, is the position of the Secretary of State, Mr Delors, in the longer term, of the solidarity of the social system. You've got to dare!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u170	The Secretary of State also mentioned my name in the need for some sort of final word. She herself said sometime in the middle of the evening that debates on minor technical changes to a law often conceal an ideological difference. I see that there is a reason from the Supreme Court's ruling to amend the law, but no legal need to make this choice. Again, there could have been two directions. I don't share the side of this cabinet. I really think we should be more generous and less harsh. Let me be quite clear that I see this as a political choice and not as a kind of legal necessity to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u171	The Secretary of State, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u172	It might be a little balancing, but I'm still trying. I am not having an ideological debate here. I think it's all over the place. We can go there... I am standing here giving my administrative response to what the Supreme Court has said we need to change. I wanted to point out that there is no arbitrariness, o, we are doing a certain direction on the basis of ideology, but that the Supreme Court has also taken into account in its ruling that the Participation Act is of a certain nature, which makes a certain direction clear, logical. The cabinet weighs that heavily. I would also like to say here that I hope it can also be heard in the same way that this is, in particular, an administrative responsibility, other than simply an ideological choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u173	Then we have come to the end of the second period and thus at the end of the debate. I thank the Members of Parliament for their input. I thank the Secretary of State for answering the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-04-tweedekamer-10.u174	The motion tabled and the two amendments will be put to the vote next Tuesday.
