ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u1	I would again like to welcome the Minister for Agriculture and Food Quality. The next item is the 30-member debate on the opinion of the Environment and Infrastructure Council on a sustainable food system. Mrs Ouwehand, on behalf of the Animal Party, has the floor as the first on the side of the Chamber. She has a speaking time of three minutes. The same applies to all the other speakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u2	Thank you, Mr President. If you can eat healthy, tasty, durable and without causing animal suffering, why wouldn't you? That is my first question to the Minister. The Netherlands slaughter 650 million animals a year. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Dat zijn er meer dan 1.200 per minuut.]] This is not only very annoying for those animals, but also for biodiversity and the climate. The previous cabinet asked the Environment and Infrastructure Council: what should we do with our food system, given the climate goals? Again, the Animal Party thinks you should look at much more, starting with the interests of the animals themselves, but it's about climate. The Environment Council presented a comprehensive report in March 2018, a year ago. There are two important things in that. One: we need to eat much less animal protein; less meat and dairy. That's not new. That's what the Balkenende IV cabinet said. That was ten years ago. And two: shrinking the number of animals bred and killed in the Netherlands is inevitable. So just start with it, because the longer you wait, the more annoying it gets, not least for the farmers. My second question is therefore: does the Minister recognise that waiting for measures does not help farmers and that no one is waiting for intervention at the very last moment? The coalition parties said the following at that time. "No, we all don't care about what such an advisory body of the government thinks. We'll put that in a drawer. We will ask other parties what they think is a sensible course to deal with livestock farming and our food system. We ask LTO and the supermarkets." Well, LTO says, no, man, that's not necessary at all. And the supermarkets have gone 28% more stunting with meat in the last four years. I don't think that's very sensible. Is the Minister prepared to do anything on the food side? We have already made a thousand proposals for the shrinkage of livestock, but the cabinet is not moving. I think that's very unwise. But on the food side there are so many options that the Minister can just choose to make sure that we actually eat a bit more sustainable, animal-friendly and better for the future, and also healthy. I say, come with an animal suffering tax. Call it a slaughter tax, call it a meat tax, call it a dairy tax, but simply make the products for which animals have been bred, used and killed more expensive. That's what the Environment Council says. Those products are too cheap. In times when you needed it to stay healthy, that might still be justified, but that is not the case anymore. Come out with a ban on meat advertising, ban the kilo-blaster, invest in plant protein innovations or at least participate in the Week without Meat. Does the Minister make any of these choices? Mr. Chairman. My favorite, the last choice I put to her, is the idea "Carnivore? Pass it on!'. That means it doesn't cost anything. You're just turning the norm. You make the offer standard vegetable and if someone with all the violence wants to eat meat or dairy, then you can, but then that person has to ask for it. What's so far-reaching about that idea? Now vegetarians or vegans always have to say, "Hey, watch out, I don't want to eat animal suffering." If you turn that around, everyone has the same freedom of choice, but you make the standard offer as animal-friendly and as climate-friendly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u3	Thank you. The next speaker was Mr Geurts, on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u4	Mr. Chairman. It is no secret that I am very critical of Rli's food sustainability advice. Another opinion on the future of farmers without involving them. Another advice that can unnecessarily despondent our young, future food producers and their parents. Another advice in which the search is for a word of thanks to our farmers and growers, while ensuring that healthy, safe and varied food is widely available. Mr. Chairman. The Rli opinion has chosen the easiest route. The path of a substantial reduction in livestock and of a reduction in meat consumption through meat taxes. Earlier this was advised for the sake of nature policy, now under the guise of climate policy. And it's not my way, I tell you. When I had read the opinion at the beginning of last year, I concluded that foreign countries would laugh badly if this opinion were taken on board. There are countries with fewer environmental and animal welfare requirements that would like to accept us. Does that make the world any better? My answer is no. The Rli talks about a sharp reduction in livestock farming and refers to the Paris climate agreement. It is perhaps good to remind all of us that Article 2 of the Climate Agreement states that "to promote low-carbon development in a way that does not endanger food production'. Does the Minister agree with me that it is bizarre that we should ask agriculture and horticulture to produce less? Is industry, built environment, electricity or mobility expected to produce less? The answer to that is no. The CDA wants us to support farmers to continue to take good care of our food in the future. The other day, a representative of the Institute for Agricultural, Fisheries and Food Research in the Belgian Parliament said that it is strange that dairy farming is the head of Jut. He's making the following comparison. "If we compare milk production in Europe with that in India, we can see that they both produced 160 billion litres of milk in 2016. But in India 122 million cows are needed to produce this quantity, while in Europe they can do so with 23 million cows. In the context of methane emissions, this means a world of difference." With him I ask: why should we reduce Dutch agriculture in favour of regions where production is much less efficient? What does the Dutch farmers' income model look like? I would like to hear a response from the Minister on those last two questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u5	Those are firm words about the Rli's advice. I was raised with the idea that criticism is free advice and that you should take a critical advice to heart. What does Mr Geurts think of the statement in the report that if we continue on this basis with the agricultural sector, by 2050 about all the CO space remaining, will be used up by the agricultural sector? Is that even a fair distribution? Because that assumes that all other sectors must be completely CO-neutral.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u6	We haven't come this far yet. So those numbers, they will right now, but we'll see about that. I just quoted the ILVO. I am concerned that it cannot be that we produce very efficiently here, that we stop production here and that other places in Europe, where it is not so efficient, are being continued. That's not supposed to happen, is it? And I do not expect that either from the PvdA, I say through you, chairman, to Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u7	Here a logic is used in the vein of: I fit in my coat, my coat fits in my bag, so I fit in my bag. It is not only the question of whether production elsewhere is more efficient or less efficient. If you come to a change on the consumption side, the carbon footprint of the agricultural sector will be much smaller. It is not automatic that all production disappears abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u8	I'm just trying to point out this interruption. So if you start eating food in another way in the Netherlands, there is less production. That's what you're saying?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u9	Less CO production.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u10	Look, if you don't eat at all, you have zero CO emissions. Is that the line? No, I don't think you should pull that equation like that. I have already mentioned it in the first reaction to Mr Moorlag's interruption. We can do it very efficiently here. So let us be honest about that and let us just give farmers the honour of achieving that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u11	Is Mr Geurt aware that the Paris climate agreement has also been signed by a lot of other countries and that the relocation to another country means that there will be more CO2 emissions there, wherever they need to be reduced?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u12	That might be possible, but I have just quoted Article 2. The meetings are on their way and we've got the PBL bills. I don't think we're gonna talk about that tonight. At least I am not assuming that, but if you want me to, I will be part of it. I think it is very important that we do climate policy in a way that does not jeopardise food production, and that is Article 2 of the Paris Climate Agreement, which is also signed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u13	When you bring it up, it is very tempting to talk about the PBL report, because it says that agriculture is not going to achieve the goals at all. In addition, it will only consider the period up to 2030. We have an appointment until 2050 and I find it striking that you say: we are not yet ready. I agree with the Animal Party: the longer you wait, the more painful the interventions. And that must be a problem for an agricultural party like the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u14	I see more of a statement in this than a question. We can have a whole discussion tonight about what I find painful, but what I find really painful is that there is no appreciation for our food producers in the Netherlands. We simply have too little appreciation for that and I hope that GroenLinks will give that appreciation a little more instead of making them more and more despondent. This week there was an article in the Volkskrant about a young farmer leaving for Germany, because he no longer sees a future here. That's something I can't see.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u15	Two brief questions. Does the CDA recognise that it is very annoying for farmers if you still have to intervene at the last minute? Is the CDA further behind the Minister's direction on the consumption side? She says, "I am pursuing the Five Disc." Is the CDA behind that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u16	Short answers. On the first one, no. And on Mrs Ouwehand's second question: I do not mind trying to change our food patterns at all. Fine. Someone wants to be vegetarian, no hard feelings. But we must be careful to impose that on our society. I certainly do not agree with Mrs Ouwehand when she says: then it must all be as we as a Party for Animals want. So everyone needs to be vegan. In any case, that must be the biggest offer, and if you want something else, you should ask. I am not on that line, and Mrs Ouwehand knows that very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u17	I have submitted a number of options to the Minister and she can simply choose from them. It's interesting, because the Minister says, "No, no, I'm doing the Five Disc." Then you are actually too high with the share of meat and dairy that you can still consume for the sustainability goals. But even if you would leave it at that, which is quite conservative, then an average of 12 kilos of meat is eaten too much by Dutch people. If that Five Disk is your course, you have to do something. Then you need to use policies to make sure that meat and dairy consumption actually falls a little.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u18	And your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u19	So what's the CDA gonna do to make that happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u20	Anything "toe" stands for is wrong. Too much of anything never seems good to me. The Five Disk is fine. We have also said that it is a good thing that this is being tried. But the compulsion I sense with the Party for Animals is not my compulsion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u21	Mr President, that is not an answer to the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u22	But it is up to Mr Geurts to give that answer. I now give the floor to Mr Madlener.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u23	The Minister wrote to the Chamber that she was not going to implement the Council's opinion on the environment. What she is going to do is use ambassadors to change the relationship between vegetable protein and animal protein. My question to the CDA spokesman is: does the CDA agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u24	I have to think about whether ambassadors will be deployed; that is not how I understood it. Again, I think people are free to eat whatever they want. My grandfather and grandmother taught me that everything that stands for "too" is not wise. I have no problem with people wanting to be vegan, vegetarian or whatever, but the constant pressure on agriculture is very much a matter for me and I am very sorry about it, in the vein of 'you are not doing well'. I think that should stop and I hope that Mr Madlener agrees with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u25	Mr Geurts knows that I agree with him. We're all proud of our farmers. But what's happening here is this. The Minister sent a letter to the Chamber in which she announced that, under the guise of health, she wanted to promote the objective of shifting animal protein from animal protein to plant protein. That means she says, "People need to eat less meat." I looked it up: the meat consumption of Dutch people has been stable per person for years. Does the CDA agree that this should remain so, that people should not be harassed with all kinds of campaigns, but should choose to eat meat, and that the Minister should not therefore campaign to promote the reduction of meat consumption?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u26	I think it is a rather difficult figure that I should reply instead of the Minister that the Minister would find something. The questions that relate to what the Minister has written...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u27	I'll ask what the CDA thinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u28	The questions that you are very intriguingly addressing me, but which are actually aimed at the Minister, I will pass on to the Minister and the Minister may answer them. Your question was about ambassadors and such. That's not all I care about. I'm fine with it if the Minister wants to, but it wouldn't have been my solution. But I'm not gonna fight it if she wants me to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u29	Good. I think you're at the end of your speech, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u30	I'd come a long way, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u31	Fine, thank you. Mr Moorlag has the floor on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For decades, agricultural policy has been completely focused on ensuring food supplies. Making sure of our daily bread is not self-evident. The fact that you can present your children with a meal three times a day has certainly not been certain in most of our history. It hasn't been so long since the PvdA fought for ordinary people to get a ball chopped on their plate during the week. Food security is and remains important for the PvdA. This remains an important objective in agricultural policy. But times have changed. Food scarcity is now completely reversed to food surpluses There is so much and so cheap food available. That is a credit to the farmers, but it also has a downside. There's just too much food. We're wasting too much. There is too much meat consumption, too much meat production, and production is accompanied by too many harmful substances. We learned from Mr Geurts' grandmother that everything that stands for 'too' is actually not good. This does not apply to the word'satisfaction', in my view. To my liking, we cannot be entirely satisfied with the current food supply either. The abundance has a downside, it's just harmful. The Rli's report clearly shows that. Agriculture, in particular the size of livestock, does not fit within the emission allowances that we have available in this country in the future. I have some questions for the Minister. The first is: does the Minister agree with the content and scope of the Rli's opinion and, if not, why not? Does the Minister share the view that livestock should be reduced? Does she also share the view that it is better to sail for the storm than to wait for a real crisis to arise and the shore to turn the ship? Shouldn't you shift course to fewer cattle in time? Should this not be done in a gradual way, in a social way, through a gentle restructuring of the sector? It's possible. There are a lot of entrepreneurs who stop. This is the time. Mr. Chairman. Another point, which also has to do with climate policy. On the basis of the draft climate agreement, the Cabinet has decided to take a number of additional measures. One of them is more money to the agricultural sector, and more CO reduction to ask for it. But the question is: how effective are these investments? All the measures have been taken. My question to the Minister is whether she is prepared to pass on this additional measure of the cabinet. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u33	Thank you, Mr Moorlag. The next speaker was Mr Futselaar, on behalf of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Environment and Infrastructure Council, the Rli, has advised us on one of the major issues of our time, the future of food and food production in the context of climate change and increased environmental pressure. The report entitled Sustainable and healthy: together towards a sustainable food system, published last year, is a very readingable document. In her response, the Minister speaks with appreciation of the report, but if you look concretely, you can only conclude that the essence is actually ignored or at least not followed. Because the Rli puts some hard facts on the table. I quote: the climate forecast for 2050 cannot be achieved without a substantial reduction in livestock, not even with the use of technological improvements. As a follow-up to that conclusion, the Rli states that it is important that the Empire clarify future areas for livestock farming in 2030 and 2050 as soon as possible. I would like to hear from the Minister whether she agrees with those two statements. The government states in its response that it wants to prevent the debate from being unilaterally reduced to a reduction in livestock. I would like to admit that I am a little tired of this discussion, but on the other hand, if you do not want to have that discussion, you are actually ignoring the conclusion of the Rli, which says that we must now give certainty to those farmers, to those farmers for the long term. They need investment or not, so they need certainty now. But now you're saving the cabbage and the goat, while this report makes it pretty clear that the number of goats should be reduced. The Rli also formulates a number of framework conditions and intermediate targets for achieving societal goals. Let me mention one more: there are no more manure surpluses in livestock farming in 2030, and ammonia emissions have been significantly reduced. Does the Cabinet share this ambition of the Rli? And if so, what are we going to do about it? Because 2030 is 11 years from now. Another good intermediate objective is to minimise the risks to public health posed by livestock farms. The Rli specifically states that, in addition to technical measures, which are necessary, it is also the case that livestock farming must be organized in such a way as to minimise health damage. I would like to hear how the cabinet actually views the use of the spatial planning tool to combat animal health problems. In any case, the Rli highlights the specific problem of livestock-tight areas in relation to the environment, biodiversity and public health. The Rli argues: the instruments for provinces to respond to this are simply inadequate. Does the Minister share that conclusion? What's she gonna do about it? Let me give her a hand in this matter, because I refer to the wonderful initiative law on animal-proof areas of myself, Mrs Bromet and Mr Moorlag, which is now with the Council of State. A solution to this problem is therefore already available. Finally, I would like to ask the Minister whether she intends to embrace this law with enthusiasm as soon as it arrives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u35	Thank you. The next speaker is Mrs Bromet, on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u36	Mr. Chairman. The Rli report Sustainable and healthy reads as GroenLinks' election programme: a very sensible report. It is a report that looks forward, namely until 2050, the year that we agreed with almost the whole world that we would have reduced CO reduction by 95%. Not everyone in agriculture and beyond realizes what that means, but the Environment and Infrastructure Council does. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, this board wrote an important opinion, namely that by 2050 the livestock production area should be smaller and our menu should contain fewer animal products. The Council therefore also recommends anticipating these developments in future agricultural and food policies. With regard to climate change, the Council says: quickly clarify the area for livestock production in 2030 and 2050 and translate this into emission allowances. The government reacts as we know the texts of the coalition agreement, because a discussion on the shrinkage of livestock is at most a result of the sustainability of agriculture, but we should not discuss it. And that is a pity not only for GroenLinks........................................................................................................................................................................................... Because these farmers could just get the impression that there is nothing going on, so there is a lot going on. In 30 years, CO2 emissions will have to be reduced by 95%. And yes, also in agriculture. The council also advises that the Empire engages in talks with provinces with cattle-proof areas, to see how the problems there should be addressed. Unfortunately, there is no new policy here either, but a reference to the warm clean-up of pig farming. What's going on with that, anyway? When are we going to see the results of that? And what if the number of applications for the hot clean-up is higher than the available budget? A third opinion of the Council is: increase the tax on animal products. That is also in the GroenLinks programme. Why is the Minister so determinedly rejecting this? Finally, the Council recommends working together with the chain parties to support sustainable and healthier production and consumption. The Minister's reaction is that circular agriculture is going to solve this. Mr. Chairman. I am sorry to say this, but I do not think the Minister is going to do anything about this report. She's putting her head in the sand and wasting precious time that we could so well use for a social transition to a sustainable food system.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u37	How much money had GroenLinks earmarked in her election programme to enable the livestock sector to be reorganised?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u38	I don't have that right here, but an election programme is also an intermediate step. We have become more and more aware, also in the light of the climate change and the passing-through of the PBL, that something really needs to be done, and we will also make money available for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u39	I don't think it happened in the election program. So if you say that the opinion is similar to the GroenLinks election programme, then the election programme seems a bit like a free program. Unless you're talking about a cold cleanup. Has the Green Left perhaps noticed that this cabinet is reducing the number of pigs by one million?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u40	Not at all, because I have just referred to that in my contribution. I'm also very curious to see what's going on with that. We have seen a verse in the coalition agreement on this, but we have not yet seen any results.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u41	Thank you. The next speaker will also be Mr De Groot. He speaks for D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u42	Mr. Chairman. "The farmer is trapped in a production system that is not future-proof." This sentence comes from the cabinet's vision of the future of food production. D66 has individual freedom by unfolding high on the banner. That is why I am concerned that farmers are trapped in the production system that is not future-proof. D66 is a social-liberal party. This means that freedom requires action: action to make the system, the market in which the farmer is trapped, more social, more sustainable and more just. And that also means helping farmers with knowledge and skills to find alternative options to make a better living in the company. That's why D66 wants to free the farmer by breaking down four walls. The first wall: breaking rules that hinder innovation. The second wall: encouraging innovation with European agricultural money. The third wall: independent knowledge, so farmers can make full choices themselves. And the fourth wall: stimulating chain initiatives so that the farmer himself can break out of the system. Will the Secretary of State help D66 break down these walls? Mr. Chairman. Farmers are forced to transfer the pressure they experience from the market to the environment and animal welfare. I am convinced that if we manage to give farmers more air, we can also give animals a better life. A good example of this is the Planet Proof milk. He'll be on the shelves soon. For this, dairy farmers receive an extra €0.05 per litre of milk. That just gives them the air to do something about animal welfare and biodiversity. But to make that work, it is necessary that the retail also pays €0.05 extra for the bottom of the market. And so Albert Heijn still makes good decoration with a dairy line with his own milk, but the company leaves the "puff milk" in the shelves. With Albert Heijn's behavior like this, we do not free the farmer. Is the Minister prepared to discuss this with the retail? Finally, seaweed. Every year 3.5 million tonnes of phosphate flows into the North Sea. That's about a river of Pokon. Seaweed at sea has enormous potential. If you were to use the 1.4 million hectares of wind farms all for seaweed production, that's the maximum estimate, then you've used protein for 160 million people and twice as much gas as the Netherlands now. But there is no coherent innovation policy for seaweed. The emphasis is too much on the production side and too little on processing, finding a market, cascading and searching for good alternatives. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Finally. The report was a snapshot. With the vision of the cabinet, we are now a step further. This is a broad-based vision of the future of food production. I'd like to leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u43	Thank you. Mr Futselaar would like to make another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u44	I'm just thinking about the sentence: "The report has been a snapshot." I think this was an excellent report that tried to look ahead. I would like to ask Mr De Groot to respond to the sentence I have just said: 'The climate forecast for 2050 cannot be achieved without a substantial reduction in livestock, even with the use of all kinds of technological resources'. Does this sentence not affect Mr De Groot in the sense that we must now take action?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u45	True, only the assumption in the Rli's report is that there is a linear link between the size of the livestock and the environmental impact. That is not the case. It is as if they advise: we have a problem with emissions of cars, so we are going to reduce the number of cars. But it is precisely to bring about a transition to, in this case, a livestock farm that does not burden the earth, in which animals do not eat feed that competes with our own food, in which we deal better with the manure, a driving product instead of a rotten product, and in which we are going to rediscover the soil. If we do that, we will increase efficiency and reduce the burden on the earth by livestock farming. This does not mean that we will have to reduce the livestock at the end or even begin to do so now. That's exactly what we're doing right now. We are going to reduce a million pigs, so I fully agree with the Rli report on this point, namely that the size of the livestock certainly does not fit a balance on the manure market, for example, in the case of a balance which, according to the calculations on circular agriculture, would emerge. So in the end you have fewer animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u46	Finally, second time, Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u47	At the end of Mr De Groot's speech I was very pleased with him, but he started off with a slightly different direction, I had the idea. But what he says about manure is very interesting to me. Mr De Groot also spoke with Mrs Bromet about the cost of clean-up and so on. I understand those arguments. I do not expect the cabinet, even if it falls tomorrow and I come to power, to reduce the livestock sector massively. But what the Rli is saying is that now you have to indicate the frameworks of where it's going in the future. If you don't, you're going to have phosphate legislation-like practices, which means that you suddenly have to take drastic measures in the very short term. Does Mr De Groot not see that we need to go a little further in order to clarify this, not for now or in five years' time, but for 10 years, 20 years and 30 years' time?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u48	Yeah, I couldn't agree more. But I don't agree that we're going to say that we're going to reduce the size in the same system, because then you're going to have the same system. That is a very poor solution. I do not think the report is very strong in that sense either, I must say with all due respect to the authors, because they are talking about a transition, but it is just a reduction. They call the word, they also call the word "circularity," but they don't work it out. That is why D66 has always advocated circular agriculture. Then you're going to redesign the system with other benchmarks, namely in the area of feed, manure and soil. Then it's gonna work differently. At the same time, you gradually reduce the size of the livestock. Then you come to a balance of about 30%, 40% animal production. That's exactly what the Rli recommend. To do that only from the outside is simply pointless, very expensive and not intelligent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u49	I have a moment to think about all the complexities that Mr De Groot is presenting here. It goes from seaweed to graphs. My question was actually how many animals we have left in the Netherlands. In his last sentence, he says that. As far as D66 is concerned, we must take account of a 60% reduction in livestock by 2050. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u50	It depends a little on how much you manage to make more protein available that doesn't compete with our own food. It depends on whether the transition that the Minister must now lead, and which we as a whole have said that she should also do, is successful. If it's unsuccessful, if it stays with the present, you'll even have to go back 80%. If it is successful, you will have about 50% animal and 50% plant production, so scientists in Wageningen say. Somewhere in between, it comes out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u51	D66 says we have a vision now, so it's gonna be okay. There is still no way of working out that vision. So we may have to go to 80% reduction in livestock, as D66 says. I am very curious to see the proposals that the Minister will shortly come forward with for the elaboration of the vision. We'll see if they lead to 80% reduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u52	When you put it that way, it almost seems like you're hoping for it. Now let's see how we... I was talking about the farmer and the walls. You can do that in a few ways. But if you say in advance... You call out that the farmer is trapped in the system; that's what that note says. It's trapped in the system and you're gonna make his life even harder by yelling "it's gonna be 80% less." I don't think that's smart. Let us simply ensure that there is a perspective by saying: there is a perspective if we are going to do a few things, if the sector starts to work and if this minister comes up with an impact. Because, indeed, it's going way too slowly. But to call in advance almost hopefully 'well, then it will be 80% less', I do not think it is right to do the position of the farmer, who is already stuck. A fairly long answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u53	Yeah, I thought it was a little long. Mr Madlener has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u54	Mr. De Groot seems to have thought a long time about his vision, but I'm wondering one thing. If the Netherlands is going to produce so much less meat and the Dutch will continue to eat 75 kilos of meat a year, do we still have enough meat in the Netherlands to serve to our own people?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u55	That's actually on the consumption side. You actually have to cut between production and consumption, because we have an international market. But it is true that in a sustainable diet with the current livestock you should have 20% or 30% animal protein. We're at 70%, so we're gonna have to go back. You can actually say that what will soon be a sustainable balance in production is also a sustainable balance in consumption, i.e. 30% or 40%. That is exactly what the Disk of Five already indicates.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u56	That's what I wanted to hear. So what D66 is saying here is that the Dutchman should eat much less meat. That's the bottom line. If we are not going to eat less meat, but we are going to produce less meat, then we will be importing more, and this will of course not help the environment, not even in D66's vision. You're just saying that Dutch people should eat less meat. That's the vision?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u57	There's a little bit more to that vision, but that's the bottom line. On the consumption side you will have to go to the Disk of Five, which, according to all scientists, is both sustainable and healthy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u58	In my view, the Rli report does not rule out the possibility of thinking about how to make agriculture and livestock farming as a whole more sustainable. Of course, attention to the soil and to the cycles, but the crucial point is: do you set frameworks or not? That circular vision has a high content of wishful thinking. Does D66 now say that the Minister must set clear frameworks in the elaboration and set the objective set out in the Rli report, with all the details and things that can still be done in the D66 agricultural vision?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u59	It depends on the frameworks. You're gonna make new rules for production. I don't even think the size is that interesting. You just have to make sure that you have a livestock farm, a food system that doesn't burden the earth and that is also good for animal welfare. If you do, that size doesn't really matter. And then it's interesting. If other countries also learn what the Netherlands can do by then, we also have a food system that is sustainable throughout the world. We can therefore export the knowledge we gain about this. But to say in advance that it has to be so big and so big. I don't see the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u60	Finalizing, Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u61	The circular vision of the minister, to which D66 and in fact all coalition parties have contributed, is now quite without obligation. If it is not tightened, we will be here in 2030 and we must conclude that we still need to intervene in agriculture. D66 admits that's a real pain in the ass for farmers, doesn't it? That's what the Rli warns. This is both complicated and unnecessarily expensive for farmers and for society. So is it going to be with sharp frameworks, or is it going to be without commitment, and are we here in 2030 with all the misery that this entails?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u62	The effect is up to the Minister, but when it comes to D66 it is accompanied by small steps on the three points of feed, manure and soil. You're going to see if you can work towards a system change with small, meaningful steps. It is not about low-hanging fruit, but about steps that lead to discussion and that also bring winners and losers here and there. It is something quite different in terms of food production. So you can't make a blueprint in advance and say: it has to look like this, and so on, and so on. What you can do is always have the political courage to take steps in those areas. That's what D66 is about. Then you have a completely different system towards 2030.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u63	First of all, I had the impression that Mr De Groot was turning a bit around, but I do appreciate that he says that volume reduction should not be an end in itself, but is inherent in the task ahead of us. My question to Mr De Groot is: can you not do that in parallel? Can you not roll out the concept of circular farming and, on a very gradual basis, on a voluntary basis, come to a further reform of livestock?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u64	That's very imaginable. In fact, this can be imagined so that, at least now, there will be a restructuring scheme for pig farming. That's exactly what D66 stands for. We think it is important that you work on fewer animals in this way, especially in those areas where people are just suffering a lot. Let's start with that. That's what this cabinet's gonna do. And at the same time, you're going to work on another system. What Mr Moorlag is saying is what is happening. We fully support this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u65	I have the following question to ask Mr De Groot. Additional resources will be available to accelerate CO reduction in the agricultural sector. Would it also be conceivable for Mr De Groot to use some of these resources for the soft social rehabilitation of livestock farming?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u66	Nothing is sacred to the challenges we face now, but we are not going to anticipate them now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u67	I'm just trying to get some sobriety at the end of all the interruptions. The government agreement states: "In relation to the emission path under unchanged policies, greenhouse gas emissions from agriculture should be reduced by 3.5 Mton by 2030." There is still more to it, but I would like to quote the following sentence: 'Technical measures (...) are preferable to volume-limiting measures'. I take it the D66 Group still supports that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u68	Oh, yeah. However, the climate table itself included the reduction of the pig herd in the implementation of this task and that is also included in the same coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u69	That's another chapter. I haven't seen any proposals from the cabinet on that yet, so we'll just wait and see. But this is the coalition agreement. I conclude that D66's signature is still entirely underneath it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u70	Yeah, that's right. Under both this passage and the other passages.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u71	Thank you. You'd already finished your speech. I call Mr Madlener on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is always amazing how many left-wing parties always come with taxes, with taxes: flight taxes, meat taxes. I always think, "Who's gonna fly less? Who's gonna eat less meat?" Those are, of course, the people with the small scholarship. They always get caught by left-wing parties. I think that's kind of funny, too. Mr. Chairman. We are discussing today the Council's opinion on the living environment to reduce meat consumption. A number of proposals have been made for this. Luckily, the Minister won't take over. That's the good news. The Paris climate agreement is cited as the main source: less CO. That is simply not a point for the PVV Group. We did not support the Paris climate agreement as the only one in this Chamber. For us, eating meat is not a bad thing or an unhealthy thing. It's something to enjoy. A lot of Dutch people do that. I have also looked up the meat consumption of the Dutch. It's been stable for a long time. One eats more vegetarian, the other eats more meat. There are also people who eat too much meat. Perhaps there are even those in this room; I do not mention names. That's a free choice. Of course, you can decide whether you eat meat or not, whether you eat chicken, fish or something else. We would like to keep it that way. We do not want to influence and patronize a government that tells us what to do. The Minister writes to the Chamber that she does not accept 90% of the Council's opinion on the environment, but she writes that she makes the Disk of Five and health a central issue. I just asked the D66 spokesperson what that means. He says this means less meat. So it seems as if the Minister is saying that she does not want the meat tax or other advice from the Council on the environment, but that she wants people indirectly to eat less meat. That's what I read in the letter. It's not literally in there, but that's how I read the letter. The Minister thinks it is desirable and wants to influence it with ambassadors, who will then tell the Dutch: you are actually doing a little wrong when you eat meat. She wants to breed some kind of flesh shame, or even fear of flesh. 'Cause that's what's gonna happen. I ask the Minister what the intention is. Should people, as far as the Minister is concerned, eat more vegetable proteins and less animal proteins or not? Can the Minister just say that? Last but not least, I have a question. The Dutch may have to eat less meat, but at the same time the EU has increased the import of chicken from Ukraine hugely: from 20 to 70 million kilos of chicken. Of course, that's hugely damaging to our own chicken farmers. It also runs counter to that "less meat" story. Then I wonder: what was the Minister's view on this? Did the Minister agree to this trade agreement? Has the Netherlands asked for anything at all? Or is it just over? How does the Minister feel about that? What's she gonna do about this giant import of Ukrainian chicken? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u73	Thank you. You have another interruption from Mrs Ouwehand. You're welcome to stand still.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u74	I just have a simple question: does the PVV recognise that it is better for the animals if we breed, kill and eat them less?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u75	No, no, no. I don't recognize that. An animal does not notice at all that it is being bred to be eaten. That animal doesn't know that. The animal must be kept well and be able to live an animal-worthy life, preferably as much as possible in its own natural habitat. We are therefore seeking to improve animal welfare. Even if you kill an animal, that must be done humanely, so no halal slaughters and that kind of practice. But no, we don't necessarily think you shouldn't eat an animal because it would necessarily cause suffering. An animal really doesn't know it's being taken to the slaughter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u76	I find this a little disappointing. You can differ on what effect you need to draw on it. But the PVV should recognize that it is for an animal that doesn't want to be killed, but is still being chased into the slaughterhouse, not a cozy party in there? I would point out to him that the gentleman of the so-called most animal-friendly way of producing eggs said last time: I saw it, we tried it as best we could, but there is no such thing as animal-friendly slaughter. You should at least acknowledge that, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u77	I think there is such a thing as non-animal-friendly slaughter, because an animal doesn't know that. If you slaughter an animal well, it doesn't even notice that it's being slaughtered or killed. Besides, it won't be slaughtered until it's already dead. Of course, a slaughterhouse has very important work to do. We therefore want to improve the monitoring of slaughterhouses. An animal shall not be driven into the slaughterhouse; it shall be brought in and killed thereafter. That animal doesn't know that at all if it happens right. And it has to be done right. We are absolutely not against eating meat. To us, man is an omnivore. Omnivors eat both vegetable and animal proteins. We would like to keep it that way. We also consider the free choice to be very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u78	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Lodders as the last speaker on the side of the Chamber. She speaks on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u79	Mr. Chairman. With seven previous speakers, I would almost say that it is special to see which subjects are all being pushed into a debate on a sustainable food system. Mr. Chairman. Sustainable, tasty and healthy food. Who doesn't want that? I think we all want that, and Mrs Ouwehand in particular, because she started her input with this sentence. All people bring our Dutch products to the attention. These are products that our farmers, growers and fishermen work hard for seven days a week. They produce them and then make sure that they are on the shelves. With Mr Geurts, the VVD Group is also critical of this one-sided report. I am not sure whether Mr Geurts used the term 'one-sided', but we are critical of this. The reduction in livestock seems to be an end in itself. It ignores the relocation of food production to the countries around us, where animal welfare is often much less so, but also with all kinds of other issues. Mr Geurts mentioned a number of examples. Innovation is being ignored. It also ignores the usefulness and necessity of these innovations. And yes, in the direction of the spokesman for the Labour Party, I say that the security of our daily bread is not certain. That's right, because in recent years we've seen how a dry summer, a hot summer, can cause the failure of harvests. Mr. Chairman. There are wonderful examples of innovations that are being developed here in the Netherlands. I have just mentioned the example of the WUR which improves the production of tomatoes in Saudi Arabia. Because that's where a Dutch greenhouse is developed, so 95% water is saved. It took 168 liters of water for 1 kilogram of tomatoes. They have now brought that back and that same kilogram can now be produced with more than 5 litres. The yield has also increased by 50%. These are innovations that we must be extremely proud of. Mr. Chairman. I'm surprised. I hear the term 'puff milk', but I do not know where Mr De Groot is now. I also hear a disqualification from our livestock farmers. I hear all kinds of things coming through here. I would like so much to look at the Minister now that there would be a little more appreciation and respect for our farmers, growers and fishermen. A reduction in livestock will not lead to the resolution of climate issues. On the contrary, food production will be moved to the countries around us, and not only will we not have a solution to climate issues, but the sustainable food system will also be discarded. The VVD therefore calls on the Minister to stand next to these farmers, gardeners and fishermen, otherwise things will not work out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u80	That was a slight entrapment. Mr De Groot is interrupting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u81	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Lodders has prepared herself thoroughly and has also listened carefully to colleagues. The term "puff milk" is about milk that is very cheap in the shelves, which prevents an improvement in the farmer's wallet. There is always a cheaper milk flow somewhere. Does Mrs Lodder agree with the D66 Group that if we want to give that farmer a little more air, better income and more appreciation for his or her work, then it is important that we stick together to supermarkets by saying: we take that bottom end of the market off?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u82	So that starts by not using the term 'puff milk'. When we talk about a disqualification of farmers, it starts with the use of this term. This term has previously been introduced by another party and hung on all kinds of other sectors. That's a real disqualification. We can agree with each other in the agreements in the government agreement, in which we have agreed that farmers, growers and fishermen must be paid for as soon as more demands are made in terms of sustainability, animal welfare or other areas. That's one of the agreements in the coalition. I assume that the Minister is working hard on this, because I believe that this is also an extremely important starting point in the context of the climate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u83	Mr De Groot, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u84	Yeah, so we'll find each other. Then I'll leave that term out for a while, but it means that Albert Heijn's cheapest brand of house should just get out of the shelves.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u85	No, I didn't say that. I thought it was Mr Madlener who introduced that our food products should be accessible to everyone. I do not endorse the words he has chosen, but I do agree with him very much on this point. There's no way anyone can pay the highest price. So I am very happy that the people who may have it a little less can also buy fresh dairy products and fresh meat in the supermarkets. So we're not gonna take that out of the shelves.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u86	Mrs Lodders talks about disqualification of farmers, and she cites the example of talking about puff milk. What other qualifications has she heard? I didn't actually hear that one. I am curious to see what she calls disqualification.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u87	I have heard all kinds of terms and I happen to read statements by Mrs Bromet this evening about a sharp reduction in livestock. That seems to be... Well, that doesn't just seem to be the case; she really puts Dutch livestock farming in a negative atmosphere. Mrs Bromet knows very well that when we talk about sustainable production, whether it is meat, milk, potatoes or vegetables, we really need to be in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u88	I am very proud of the Dutch farmers. I think it is very good that they produce our daily food. It is not a disqualification at all when I say that fewer animals should come into the Netherlands. I hope Mrs Lodder agrees with me that a farmer should be able to live on 80 cows, for example, instead of having to take more and more cows to earn income. It's not about the numbers of animals, it's about a good farmer's income. I assume Mrs Lodder agrees with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u89	I certainly agree with you. It's not about the numbers of animals. What I hear here all evening from a number of parties is that we are talking only about numbers of animals and about usefulness and necessity, in your view and that of some of our colleagues, about the reduction of livestock. I'm not talking about the size of the livestock. On the contrary, let the farmer be the farmer and let him choose the management that suits him or her. That is not something we should be discussing here in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u90	No, Mrs. Bromet, you have twice... Sorry. We have come to the end of the input from the Chamber. The Minister has so well anticipated your input that she is able to respond immediately. So we're just gonna move on in a rush. I call the Minister for Agriculture and Food Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u91	Food quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u92	I said it wrong again. Sorry. Food quality. I just said food security, because that came along so often that I've already internalized it. Food quality. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u93	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "Nature" is still in there. Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality. That's just for completeness. First of all, I would like to thank the Rli for the report they have produced. I would also like to thank the Chamber for this evening's input on the report. I must say that there are sometimes debates where I am surprised by the input, but that was not entirely the case tonight. It was a bit predictable on what lines this debate would take and what the positions of the various parties are in the broader, wider debate on the future of our agriculture and what is needed or not. The Rli has indicated, more generally: look at a long, long-term vision for agriculture, give direction. That is actually the first lesson I have learned from the Rli report and I have taken it to heart, because I think the Rli is right about that too. It is our job to tell this farmer, that farmer, exactly what the objectives are for those parties to focus on in the policy. That is also what is to be expected of politics, I think; not only to take ad hoc measures, where a farmer who is himself on an investment horizon of 15, 20, sometimes 30 years, says every time: how can I anticipate policy when it changes over and over again, please give me that prospect. In general, I also read the Rli recommendation in this way: give that direction. That's what we're already doing. Last year I presented the Vision on the main lines. We are now working on these in more concrete steps and measures. I also indicated that I will send those plans to this Chamber in May. In that we are also giving all that direction that is being asked. In addition, the Rli indicates that there are other challenges, with regard to climate and our way of consumption; also take this into account when considering the future of livestock farming. We also recognise that there are some problems there. In fact, all kinds of plans have just been made by social parties who have thought about what agriculture, for example, would mean in relation to climate. Those plans are there and there will be an appreciation of the cabinet at the end of April, to give direction. I must say that I also think it is worth a compliment that the agricultural table itself has indicated that they think they can achieve a higher ambition than we asked for. I just want to say that I didn't see any table that had the guts in that discussion. Let's make that clear, too. It is also mentioned here that agriculture is always the one who may be opposed, or whatever. Call me a table in which people have voluntarily indicated that they can do more than they are asked to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u94	Yeah, you're after me. That objective for agriculture was ridiculously low. It looks like it was a one-two. LTO says that we have won the coalition agreement and we have won the agricultural table, the climate table and the circular vision. With this ridiculously low objective, it is easy to say: we can do more, but then we want money for it, because that was part of it. They want money to do more.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u95	I really object to this. I believe that Mrs Ouwehand is making a suggestion which she cannot support. I can also tell her that it's just not true. It's just not like that. For the agricultural table to say that, I'm gonna pull over. I said myself: when more is requested at the agricultural table, I also think that funds should be made available for this. And I get that. On the contrary, I am incredibly appreciative of the courage that that table has shown. Mrs Ouwehand has many views on whether it should have been more or less. The fact is that the cabinet has asked for a statement. The fact is that these parties have started to work and have started to see where they see opportunities, bearing in mind: what is the future of agriculture, of livestock farming, of arable farming? If they say 'we think we can do more than we are asked' then there must be enough resources to do so. I think that is only right. I really think that Mrs Ouwehand is making a caricature of the courage that has been shown there, as I say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u96	I'm just objecting to this. 'Cause that's pretty easy to play. I don't know if the people here have read the interviews with the president of LTO, but he's bragging: LTO won it in the coalition agreement, LTO won it at the climate table, LTO won it in the circular vision. Show off. The additional measures they would be willing to take are manure factories. And the taxpayer can take the fall for it. So I'm not going along with that. Here the atmosphere is created that the agricultural lobby is doing everything it can in the interests of the climate goals. If he was serious about that, he wouldn't have wiped the Rli's report off the table. Because that's what happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u97	Words are now being used as 'agricultural lobby'. I note that this table consisted of many parties, and I can tell you that it was not just the 'agricultural lobbies'. They even included nature and environmental organisations. I do not think Mrs Ouwehand would want to place them in that corner. What a president of LTO says in interviews, I leave it to him. I'm not from LTO. I'm not from another organization either. I am the minister, and in that role, I appreciate what came out of that table.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u98	We are going to talk about the climate agreement and its share of agriculture. I would like to know from the Minister whether she has read the opinion of the Planning Office for the Environment on the agricultural table. In my view, it says that so many measures are still uncertain that it is far from being said that the targets are being met, despite the courage shown by the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u99	The PBL says that it is not yet clear what a number of things are going to look like and that it is therefore not yet able to count them. It cites the common agricultural policy as an example. That's right, because we're still trying to shape that. However, we have indicated the frameworks: that is what we want to get out of. We have also indicated how we want to combine certain objectives, given, of course, the farmer's income position, but also the social objectives, as set out in the government agreement. The PBL indicates that it is difficult for the PBL to calculate this because it does not yet know how it is convenient. That's right, but that's along the line we're thinking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u100	The Minister continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u101	Mr. Chairman. I would have stayed with the climate section. That's what we're doing. The Rli indicates that the shift in consumption from animal to plant protein should also be considered. Even before the advice of the Rli was given, I indicated in a food letter the lines along which we believe the balance between plant and animal consumption could be shaped. That is in line with the recommendations of the disc of five. In short, we are already working on a number of issues. There's a lot going on. It's not like everything's been pushed aside. It happens in a way where hard work is done along the lines that have just been indicated. I would, however, like to say that this is an important point here. Over the head of the farmer there are all kinds of debates where they say what they all have to do in order to achieve all kinds of goals. I note that I am also looking at myself guiltyly in this regard, and that the farmer is sometimes confronted with conflicting goals. We set goals and make rules. They amount to that farmyard and that farmer must then make it a whole, while things do not always come together. I think that is an important point in the debate. So where, for example, there are issues such as whether there should be a reduction in livestock, I should like to reverse that question. Here's what I'd like to say. Let's say you're a farmer, some of you've already indicated it, and you've only been pointed this way: "If you still want to continue with your business, then you'll have to grow and then you'll have to keep more animals. And if you want to invest in that low-emission stable, you're also going to have to generate more cash flow. That can happen when there are more animals." You've been pushed that way the whole time. If then the almost simple answer is that there should be fewer animals, then I understand very well that the farmer thinks: "Yes, what about me? I'm sitting here with my stable and my investments. I'm asked by my financier to have enough cash flow to pay my bills every month. Is that the answer? What does that mean for my own business?" I feel responsible for that, too. Because I do not think that does justice to what I read in the Rli recommendation, namely: take that farmer with you in what you are doing. And if we did that this way, I'd understand why the farmer would say, "I don't know how to do it anymore." That is why we are working on circular agriculture. We are also looking, and that is a very important part, for the earning models of the future. How can we ensure that this farmer can be a farmer and in such a way that he also makes a living? There's a lot of layers in there. That is not only a question of the farmer, but also of the chain parties. It also has to do with a fair price for products. There are all kinds of additional issues that we should also take into account. So let me put it this way: there is not one simple answer to the question of how we are going to solve the problems that exist, because that requires many answers. We should discuss them with each other, too. And then all we have to say is that we have to go to fewer animals, really too short a turn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u102	Now I'm getting a little irritated. It's not about fewer animals. The point is that we have a report here that says that the targets will not be met if you do not choose to go to fewer animals at some point. And that report also says: if you want to get along well with your farmers towards 2050, you must now begin to clarify, and you must not wait until a few years in advance and then come up with drastic measures. That is what I and, in my view, some other parties are trying to make clear here. I am also not happy with the phosphate-based conditions and the crying phone calls we all get. But I'd like to avoid it by having the conversation about how it should be in 2050 and how we're going to go there. The problem is that the coalition, and this minister too, keeps saying: you just want to talk about fewer animals, and that's not the point. But that's how you try to avoid the subject altogether.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u103	I don't intend to. I don't want to avoid the subject. I say that we are working on this, also from the point of view of circular agriculture. We'll fill that in, too. Only the first question I often get is: how many animals is it going to be less? And then I say that I really think that's too simple a representation of reality. I am concerned with the question: how can we have a future in this country for our agriculture? That is an agriculture in which incredibly many farmers are really passionate every day, not to have as many animals as possible or to produce as much as possible... No, just to survive and earn a living. And we all pushed them one way first, namely: we need to produce more, because that way you can keep it up. And now we say, okay, there are more challenges and more is needed. So what's it gonna take to make sure he has a future with that farmer? But we are also looking for solutions that will enable him to earn that income, and what steps are needed to get there. That's what we're actually working for. It's not like I'm saying everything's unspeakable or not. But the focus in the solutions is often, and I hear them here tonight... I recognise that Mr Futselaar has a broader story, and I am not saying that it is one person who has said it, but I always hear very quickly: how many animals should there be less? And that's too short for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u104	I can go a long way with the Minister's story. To a large extent it is: we will see the results of the impact. But, yes, the reason we're talking about fewer animals here is because we're talking about a report that says you're going to have to talk about fewer animals. So you can't say: there comes the opposition again with its standard record. No, we are talking about the subject of tonight's debate, namely the Rli report, which is quite clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u105	But I do see more layers in the Rli report, but well, that might be the way you read it. I think we are also failing the Rli report when we say that it is only about fewer animals. I would also like to point out that we are really working on, for example, the warm clean-up of pig farming. Then they ask: where are these plans? Well, you'll get them all before the summer, but I've already outlined the main direction. I have indicated how we have shaped this with the provinces and the sector. We're working hard on that right now. Those steps are being taken. Some people say there's no movement in that at all, but it's not. They're working very hard on that. There too, I would like to act from the farmer's point of view, because there too, there may be the risk that we will do all kinds of things over the head of that farmer. Then we won't be there, then we'll have other problems, so we need to think about how to shape that. We're working on it. That was the more general introduction. Then I come to the more specific questions of the various parties. Mrs Ouwehand asked the big question: if you can eat healthy and sustainable, why not? I think that's a question that everyone should ask themselves personally: what do you think is healthy and sustainable? As a government, we provide information about what is healthy and what is sustainable food. But I also think it is important for consumers to have a choice of their own. It is not true that I am not in favour of banning certain things now because we would prefer it for the consumer. However, I do believe that consumers have a right to good information. In particular, the Food Centre plays an important role in this, as it provides that kind of information and also conducts campaigns. Mrs. Ouwehand also asks...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u106	Minister, Mr Madlener has an interruption on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u107	I found the Minister's letter to the Chamber incredibly unclear. The opinion of the Environment Council is not taken up. That was clear to me. But the letter still breathes the atmosphere that the minister thinks that Dutch people should eat less meat, take less animal protein. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u108	Mr Madlener pointed out that you did not adopt the opinion at all. I think I just indicated what elements we are working with. He's asking if I think there should be less animal food. I'm saying it's good to eat more vegetable, but I also like it when people have a choice in how they do it. I do think it is important that they do it on the basis of information that allows them to balance that choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u109	I think this is a bit of a hideout behind some kind of health idea. You can eat very healthy meat, of course. After all, eating meat is not unhealthy. You can also eat a lot of meat and still live healthy. But I really want to know, I think that the Netherlands is entitled to this or that this minister wants to achieve a reduction in the Dutch meat consumption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u110	I believe that there should be a proper balance in plant and animal proteins. That's what I reported. I'll give you information on that. Well, I do; that's what the Food Center does. I hear Mr Madlener saying that I employ all kinds of ambassadors there, but that is not the case. For example, we are in the process of promoting fruit and vegetables. Those are things where you can take steps. But I think it is important that citizens have a choice of their own.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u111	The Minister continues her speech. You have a second time to come back to that, Mr Madlener, but the Minister is now pursuing her argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u112	Mrs. Ouwehand asked: Shall we make standard "no meat" as an offer? She's asked me that question before. If there is a meal at the Ministry, it is varied: both meat and vegetarian. That's what I think is the way. People must be able to make their own choices. Then Mrs Ouwehand asks if I am prepared to use all kinds of measures to eat less meat. She mentions, for example, the meat tax. In my opinion, it was Mrs Ouwehand and other parties who were very hopeful about an increase in the VAT rate from 6% to 9%, including meat. So we can have a whole discussion about that. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Ik ben overigens niet van plan om dat vanavond te gaan doen, maar in die zin is de btw op vlees al verhoogd, zeg ik tegen mevrouw Ouwehand.]] It also referred to a ban on meat advertising and to the Week without Meat. I just indicated that we are providing information on what a healthy and sustainable diet can be. I think it is important that consumer choice is also made in it. Mrs Ouwehand also asks whether I recognise that the measures are not helping farmers forward and that no one is waiting for measures at the last minute. I think I have just indicated how, from the point of view, we are actually trying to indicate that direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u113	Did you answer all of Mrs Ouwehand's questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u114	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u115	The Minister does not give a clear answer to the clear question: does she recognise that if you do not take the steps that the Rli advises now - give clarity about the production space available - make policy so that farmers have the time to switch over - you run the risk of taking measures at a later stage, at a much later stage, at a worse time, and that it is therefore more complicated and expensive for society and farmers? Does she recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u116	It suggests that we're not. I think I have just explained that we are precisely working out the visions in which we are going to give that direction to farmers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u117	Mrs. Ouwehand, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u118	Does the Minister promise that this effect will be so sharp that this risk will not arise, that there will be clarity about the space that farmers still have in 2030 and 2050 and that they will have the opportunity to work towards it? Is that gonna be that sharp? Will these be sharp frameworks or will it remain a non-binding approach?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u119	Mrs Ouwehand may judge the plans at the moment they are here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u120	The Minister continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u121	Then I come to Mr Geurts. He asks whether I agree that, as he says, it is bizarre that we ask agriculture to produce less but not industry. I believe that industry, too, has been given a mandate from the coalition agreement to meet the CO targets. And rightly so, I say here as well. We have found that with the plans that lie ahead, they will not make it and that the cabinet has indicated: but that is what they must do. I would like us to give farmers the opportunity to continue to earn a living, to maintain the way they produce with each other, also taking into account the challenges we face and also formulated in the vision of circular agriculture. Then Mr Geurts asks: but what does the farmer's earning model look like? That, I think, is precisely the discussion we are having right now. I would also like to add my voice to Mr De Groot's plea. We come from a earning model in which the cost reduction was always the norm. That was a model where, if you wanted extra funding, it always led to a fairly simple solution, namely to produce even more, because then you have more cash flow to pay your bills. At some point the rack is out. So we need to look at what those other earning models are. That is an important fact in everything we are doing: that we think of what it means for the earning model for that farmer. That is about the underlying basic assumption that we must always apply. I can tell you that I have asked a working group to work on this. A task force earning model is working on it. I haven't reported that to the Chamber yet, but I've asked Mrs. Hester Maij to lead it. In this way, I want to make sure that we really think about how we can take everything into account. These were basically the questions put by Mr Geurts. Then I come to Mr Moorlag. He raised the more fundamental question that I answered at the beginning, namely: what is the future and how are we going to shape it? Isn't it better to take action quickly instead of waiting for a crisis? He calls it a gentle clean-up. I always call it a "warm clean-up" myself. We are working on the implementation phase of this vision and, of course, we are already working on the reform of pig farming. I think it would be good if, when the implementation plan is in place, we could discuss what that all means for the future of these farmers. He also asks how effective the additional measures to the climate agreement are and whether I am prepared to pass them on. I'm going back to the climate agreement process. Plans have come from the tables. This applies to all tables, not only to agriculture but to all tables. The cabinet is now working on the appreciation of these plans, and Mr Moorlag may have already seen that some changes have already been proposed by the cabinet on the plans that have been made there. This applies not so much to agriculture as to other areas. It's not like we're gonna charge them all again separately. It is taken into account and passed on as part of the annual climate and energy exploration. So that is the framework within which these measures will be put in place. So it's not like we're going to do a very separate pass-through again. We must now, I think, first and foremost clarify what measures we are going to take.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u122	This spring we must assess whether the draft climate agreement really brings what we want. Are the targets being met? Are the costs a little balanced? But substantial changes have been made. Five measures by the cabinet and one in the field of agriculture: more money and a higher CO reduction. Then it is a legitimate request from the Chamber to look in that basket. What are these measures and what is it going to cost? How much extra money is involved? Is it validated and passed on to effectiveness and cost?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u123	Mr. Chairman. This is a somewhat larger debate on the climate agreement in the broad sense. I think it is a good thing that Mr Moorlag is conducting it with the coordinating director in this area. And that's my colleague Wiebes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u124	I'm talking about one part now. Five measures have been taken by the Cabinet, including the introduction of a CO levy. A number of others have been affected, including one in the field of agriculture. My question to the Minister is whether this can be made clear to the Chamber. We are supposed as representatives of the people to carry out a controlling task. Can it be made clear how much money is being made available and what is being achieved with the additional measures that have been developed? Can that also be viewed by the organisations? There are 300 very detailed measures taken at times and now there is a number of very substantial ones, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u125	Your question is clear, Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u126	...why don't you pass that on?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u127	This goes beyond the field of agriculture and, above all, this debate. I'm not gonna lift one domain out of it. However, the cabinet indicated that at the end of April you will receive the appreciation of the measures proposed by the cabinet. What measures are we going to take and what means are we going to use?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u128	Mr President, I should like to raise a point of order. I object to the fact that we seem to be discussing a draft climate agreement here, when we have agreed on a trial with each other in the Chamber. We have another round table on the climate table agriculture and land use. The cabinet has indicated that it is responding to the PBL report and the CPB, and now all kinds of questions are being asked. I really think it's premature. So is this debate. I deliberately did not mention this in the first term, but I now object to the discussion going that way. I would very much like to have a debate on this, but if we all have the right and the same information.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u129	You made your point of order. At the same time, the Minister answered the questions. I suggest that she continue her argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u130	Mr. Chairman. Then I come to Mr Futselaar's questions. It specifically asks me whether I share the view that the current spatial planning instruments are inadequate and that we should find a solution to this problem. Local authorities have spatial tools to set boundaries for livestock farming. They also use them on parts, as we can read from time to time. Some moratoria have been declared by a number of provinces. Mr Futselaar was right to advertise a bill he has now submitted to the Council of State, and he is already asking me to do so! To just sign blindly for that bill, without me knowing what it says. I'm gonna try to propose a deal. I would like to consider that if Mr Futselaar would then agree to also sign blindly in advance all the legislative proposals that I have tabled. It seems like an interesting exercise to do it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u131	I will refrain from doing so, but if the Minister looks closely, she will see that my party supports more legislative proposals than does not support them, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u132	She never does that in advance, and that is what Mr Futselaar is asking of me. He's asking if I want to support a bill that I haven't seen yet and that's with the Council of State. Interesting, but I note that Mr Futselaar also endorses the usual route for dealing with a legislative proposal. I think I have included Mr Futselaar's other questions in the general section.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u133	Mr Futselaar still needs one answer. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u134	One specific question was about the ambition the Rli specifically formulates on manure policy. They actually say: in 2030, the Netherlands should not have more manure than you can or can handle yourself. I asked if the Minister shares that ambition and, if so, what we are going to do with it. I don't think she really went into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u135	We have already had a broader discussion on this within the framework of the vision. I was in the Achterhoek not so long ago; I have mentioned it here before. There they are now carrying out a pilot on the fertilizer-free Achterhoek, where animal manure is converted in such a way that it is fertilizer, which allows it to be used; it is a special construction. It does indicate how we sometimes have to wring to make that kind of thing possible. I am very much in favour of limiting the amount of fertilizer and increasing the use of animal manure for this purpose. We are now exporting part of our animal manure, while at the same time using fertilizer on our soil. There are a lot of explanations for that, which are mainly back in the rules. But that is a situation I would like to change.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u136	The Minister continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u137	I'm coming to see Mrs. Bromet. She asks: where are we now with the warm clean-up? In the very short term, the Court will be further informed. I am aiming for the start of the internet consultation of the concept reorganisation scheme in April; that is quite soon. In doing so, I have indicated that the budget for the clean-up is 120 million. Smell will be the determining criterion for determining which companies will be eligible. However, the consultation of the scheme is coming very soon. Mrs Bromet asks why I reject a proposal for a meat tax, for example. I have just indicated how we view the consumption of meat. We're giving information. We show what a healthy and sustainable diet is. At the same time, I think this is also a consumer choice. I note, however, that the consumption of meat substitutes has already increased by more than 3% over the past year, i.e. in one year. Without meat taxes and that kind of "no more" there are also movements going on and something is happening. I heard today that even Vion is gonna think about the meat substitutes. Then there's something going on. Mr De Groot asks if I am going to help him break down walls. If those are bothersome walls, we should definitely look at them. He mentioned a number of issues: obstructive rules, encouraging innovation with the CAP, independent knowledge for farmers and encouraging chain initiatives. These are points which, of course, Mr De Groot makes very often and which I very much recognize. As part of the development of the vision, we are in the process of further mapping it. This will undoubtedly come back to discussions on the CAP or the National Strategic Plan; if I do not, your Chamber will. Mr De Groot also asks about dairy lines in which the farmer is not helped. Am I prepared to discuss this with certain supermarkets that offer them? When we make demands on farmers, it is important that they should also be able to meet these demands in the price they get for the products. This brings me back to the beginning of what we are doing. I believe that we must be careful not to impose all kinds of requirements that cannot ultimately be translated into the price of the products. I'm already having that conversation with the supermarkets. I think that both sides of the Chamber recognize each other in that generic whole, in that premise, and that they meet in that principle. We really need to work on that. That's what we're doing. Mr De Groot also pointed out that there was a great deal of emphasis on general research and cultivation rather than targeted interventions on processing, cascading and marketing. For the record, he is talking about seaweed cultivation. It is not the case that we are only working on strengthening seaweed cultivation. On the contrary, the innovation programmes currently under way also focus on an incentive for processing and marketing. Because you can do a lot about the production, but if you can't do that much with it for the rest, that's too bad. For example, together with innovative seaweed entrepreneurs, researchers and NGOs, we are looking for solutions for developing a good business case. We are also looking, for example, at the possibility of innovation grants from RVO for entrepreneurs who, for example, want to make citizens of seaweed. In such cases, we try to push both processing and marketing. Then I come to Mr Madlener's questions. He asked me, among other things, about the discussion about plant and animal proteins. We just talked about that. So I think I answered that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u138	We talked about it, but I still haven't understood the answer. The minister pretends she doesn't want to influence what people eat, less meat or more vegetable proteins. In my opinion, the letter shows something quite different, because it says: 'Aim for a figure of 40% animal and 60% vegetable'. That would be supposedly healthy. I honestly doubt that. My first question is: is it true that the Minister is striving for this relationship, because she thinks it is healthy for people? And what's that like now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u139	We focus on the Disk of Five. That's what I said in the Food Note. In that the ratio is a bit more fifty-fifty, but for example the Rli also indicates that 40/60 is a good ratio. But the question was whether I am going to take action now so that it has to be done. To that I say: I give information and show what the possibilities are. We also stimulate a number of innovations. We were just talking about seaweed. But I still think that the consumer himself has a choice as to what his diet looks like.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u140	A letter from the Minister to the Chamber states that ambassadors will also be deployed to tell us what is healthy. The Minister is doing the same now. I remember it said earlier that eggs would not be healthy and animal fats would not be healthy. They all came back to that. So it's not that easy to say what's healthy at all. I believe that the Minister here is trying, under the guise of health, to cause a shift to vegetable proteins, which may not be healthy at all for people. It's very difficult to tell what's healthy or unhealthy. I want to be clear: is the Minister now working on a policy to change that ratio, so that more vegetable proteins are being eaten, or does she say: no, I am not interfering, because it is up to the people themselves to decide that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u141	I think I have already given the answer three times, but I think Mr Madlener does not want to hear the answer. By the way, there are no ambassadors. We have ambassadors for fruit and vegetables; I have just indicated that. Those are just more the people who promote fruit and vegetables. I have just said that the Food Centre simply has a role to play in information. The Food Centre also has campaigns running. I am working to provide the right information, I am also helping innovative concepts where possible. But I think that ultimately the choice lies with the consumer. Mr President, I do not know how many times I have to repeat the same answer and in what terms, but it remains similar.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u142	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u143	Yes. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I come to Mrs Lodder's question. No, there was also a question about Ukraine from Mr Madlener. Excuse me. The cabinet has previously indicated that it is very undesirable for Ukraine to take all kinds of steps to bring chicken meat to the market in fairly large quantities in an unspoken manner. The cabinet has also indicated that this really is a loophole in the law of the Association Treaty. We have urged the Commission to close this loophole. The Commission is working on this. There are now proposals on this. I am not going to go into a specific proposal very specifically, because it is also with my colleague Kaag, because she is also in that discussion. But let me make one thing clear: I really do not think Ukraine can just use all kinds of loopholes in the law, or let us call it "abuse." If we allow things from Ukraine on our market, they must also meet the requirements we impose on animal welfare. That is also part of the association agreement. And I have also noted that some steps need to be taken there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u144	On this point, I can agree with the Minister, but the point is that it now seems that the European Union is going to legalise Ukraine's shortcut. It seems that you are no longer allowed to import that chicken with the breast piece, but in return you are allowed to export two and a half times as much chicken to Europe. That is very bad for our own meat producers. It is not, of course, possible for us to accept this. What's the Minister gonna do about it? How is it going to ensure that Ukraine is not allowed to export twice as much chicken meat to Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u145	The Commission is working on this. But let me put it this way: the last word has not yet been said about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u146	Mrs Ouwehand, you have a question on this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u147	Yes, if that's all right, Mr. Chairman. I have asked questions about this and I have also tabled a motion stating that the Netherlands should have the commitment to go to that zero quota. However, I would like to point out to the Minister that it was clear that a category was liberalised and that it was used, and that Dutch poultry processors also helped to do so. So you leave the sternum on that wing, that goes from Ukraine to Europe, and in the Netherlands it is taken apart again. And those are the guys the minister is sitting at the table to talk about her agricultural plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u148	I think I have been quite clear about how this "Ukraine route" is being handled and what I think of it. I do not think that was the intention of the Treaty, and that is what we have always mentioned to Europe. Finally, Mrs Lodders. She is asking for more appreciation for our farmers. She just mentioned it for a while; I was at the ceremony this afternoon for the entrepreneurial prize Agricultural Entrepreneur of the Year. That's why I rushed in here. That was a real party, I can tell you. I really liked the fact that I was able to award the prize to Hamletz of the Ten Have family. I think that is a very good example of a company looking for new market concepts that also meet the wishes of society. But I also notice that sometimes it is also difficult for pioneers like this, because that is what I would like to call them 'to get that position on the market'. That is why I find it extremely handsome if it succeeds. But I want to broaden the discussion. If we as a society think that there are all kinds of things important in the way we produce our products, then that should also be translated into the choices that are made. Otherwise, it is very easy to shout how farmers should start producing. So I share Mrs Lodder's view that there should be more appreciation for our farmers. I found a good example this afternoon of how we could shed more light on that. Mr. Chairman. I think I gave all the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u149	Thank you for the Minister's response. I think she sets a very good example with that Agricultural Entrepreneur 2019. I went to work there at the beginning of the month. Then I knew she was nominated, but not that she would eventually get the prize. So very much appreciation for that. I've already congratulated her on this wonderful prize. This also applies to the public prize. That was The Maargies Hoeve. But let's take a look at this debate. Again, I appreciate the Minister's use of this as an example. At the same time, my point is a little bit that not every farmer and gardener has the chance to start a business like the Ten Have family did. I'm looking for broad appreciation for the sector. I very much miss that in this debate, at least in the case of a number of colleagues, who are only talking about the reduction of livestock over which all kinds of qualifications and sometimes also disqualifications are given.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u150	Mr President, on a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u151	No, no, no, no. I would like Mrs Lodder to ask a question and not to provoke some opposition parties in her interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u152	I don't think I do. I'm talking about a broader appreciation of...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u153	You can do that in second term. A question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u154	... whole sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u155	Again. I didn't understand the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u156	A broader appreciation of the whole sector, i.e. of the farmers producing the bulk, so to speak, to these beautiful pearls within the sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u157	It was not my intention to highlight one example and to say that the rest is not appreciated. I just wanted to mention it because I think it's a very nice example of someone thinking about the future of their own company. I think that a lot of farmers think about what their future looks like, what choices they make in it and how we as a government should direct it. That is exactly the nature of the debate we have had today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u158	Sure. Again, that appreciation for these kinds of companies is certainly on my side, but if you only name the gems, which the minister also started with in her general introduction, then I can imagine that our farmers, gardeners and fishermen, who work seven days a week to quality well...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u159	Fishermen six.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u160	Whatever. They work hard to put quality and affordable food on the shelves. We must appreciate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u161	I have nothing to add to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u162	I understand, Mr Futselaar, that you have something to say, but a point of order is really about what is and is not on the agenda for this sitting. The climate was also on the agenda for this meeting. That was also mentioned in the report. You may respond to what your colleague said in your second term, but this is not a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u163	You don't know that yet, because you don't know what I'm going to say. I object to a party asking the Minister to respond to alleged negative comments from opposition parties and to make that a point. The Minister must respond to things that she is asked to do, but if a Member wants to respond to or in discussion with the opposition, he should just do so with the opposition and not stand here and say: I want the Minister to say that the opposition is saying terrible things. That's a very strange form, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u164	No, we're not gonna argue about that here. This is not a point of order. This is your opinion. The Minister is talking about her response. Whether or not she responds to Mrs Lodder's question is for the Minister. Furthermore, you will continue the discussion in the second term, not in plenary. The Minister has finished answering all your questions. I just want to know if you need a suspension before we move on to the second term. No, that's not the case. Then I would like to thank the Minister for her first-term contribution. We shall now proceed to the second term. I call Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u165	Mr. Chairman. The vicious circle in agricultural policy became clear again this evening. It has been clear for years that if you combine all the goals for nature, for animal welfare and for the environment, you will not escape a smaller herd. Politics chooses technique, and what did we hear the minister say tonight? "It's really annoying, isn't it, that farmers have had to invest in low-emission stables and that there will be another goal." Yeah, exactly, that's what we're talking about all the time! If you don't take the Rli's advice seriously right now and start setting frameworks, we'll be here in ten years' time with the same discussion. Two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Cabinet supports the need for a protein transition, but does not oppose any significant means;]] [[calls on the government to allocate proportionate space in the 2020 budget for investments in plant protein innovations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that 28% more meat has been stunted by supermarkets in the last four years;]] [[Whereas this is bad for farmers and for animals;]] [[calls on the Government to prohibit kilo-bullers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31532-222]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31532-223]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u166	I have a question about that. We've got all those commercials on the radio over the kilo-blaster. Then I always think to myself, "What's wrong with a kilo bomber?" That's just a price offer. If the meat is produced well and animal-friendly, then there's nothing against a good price offer. That would be a good thing!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u167	Well, it certainly isn't animal-friendly. Farmers get paid below cost. It doesn't help the animals, and it doesn't help the farmers. On average, we still eat too much meat in the Netherlands. Not me. I don't eat meat at all. So it is also at odds with the objectives of the cabinet. Why wouldn't you agree that stunts with meat just can't do it for anyone?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u168	Because it's just a free market. I also like it when good meat is offered in the supermarket for a good price. You should like that, too, because that's well-produced meat. I don't think it makes any sense to put everything on the same page.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u169	I have heard Mr Madlener say very often this evening that everything is a personal choice and a matter of freedom. I'm in favour of freedom of choice, but if you're talking about meat and especially about stunting meat, you're forgetting two different groups. You forget the farmers, who can't compete with those big supermarket powers and therefore get very little pay. Otherwise, their stuff won't be there anymore. And you forget the animals for whom it is not a free choice to be born in livestock farming, to be used and killed for a cheap piece of meat.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u170	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u171	It's both bullshit, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u172	Thank you for your input, Mrs Ouwehand. Mr Geurts does not need a second term. Mr Moorlag will then speak on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u173	Mr President, two motions for resolutions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Sustainable and Healthy Report of the Council for the Environment and Infrastructure shows that livestock in its current size is not sustainable in the future available emission allowances for, inter alia, CO;]] [[Whereas it is desirable to protect the agricultural sector from abrupt intervention and adverse social consequences;]] [[Whereas, therefore, early animal reduction scenarios should be developed;]] [[calls on the Government to develop such reduction scenarios, by calculating them and presenting them to the Chamber for the treatment of the 2020 government budget,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Moorlag. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31532-224]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u174	Second motion. I have adapted it slightly, also in view of Mrs Lodder's comment. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Government has decided to take a number of additional measures in addition to the draft climate agreement, including the provision of additional CO reduction funds in agriculture;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that these additional measures for agriculture are passed on to the CPB and the PBL in order to provide the Court with an insight into the effectiveness and financial implications,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Moorlag. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31532-225]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u175	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u176	Thank you, Mr Moorlag. I call Mr Futselaar on behalf of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u177	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. One piece of me, and actually not about animal numbers. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Noting that in its report the Council for the Environment and Infrastructure suggests that: "There will be no more manure produced in the Netherlands in 2030 than can be applied or processed responsibly.';]] [[calls on the Minister to incorporate this objective and incorporate it into its policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Futselaar and Mr Bromet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31532-226]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u178	Mr. Chairman. I have been a Member of the House of Representatives for ten months now, and it is striking that I am already experiencing a debate that feels like yet another debate on the same subject. I think it is very cheap of some parties here that GroenLinks and other parties are being dismissed as 'boeron-friendly parties', whereas we have the best interests of farmers and want to look forward for a long time. I do not have any motions, but I am very curious about the Minister's vision, because it is now time that we knew what was going to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u179	Thank you. I call Mr De Groot on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u180	Mr. Chairman. Given the enormous potential of seaweed growing at sea, I shall table a motion on this matter. The Minister said a few things about this. It sounds like it's already happening, but I'm getting different sounds about that. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas seaweed cultivation at sea has a huge potential in the transition to a healthy and sustainable food and biomass system;]] [[Whereas a wide variety of companies want to invest in the development and processing of seaweed;]] [[Whereas the diversity of these companies is very wide;]] [[Whereas incentive measures focus mainly on seaweed cultivation and hardly on the processing or marketing of seaweed;]] [[considers that the existing instruments are not sufficiently focused on contributing to a business case;]] [[Whereas a tailor-made innovation path is needed to bring companies to a business case;]] [[calls on the Government to develop a tailor-made innovation policy to boost market-oriented development of seaweed cultivation at sea,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr De Groot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31532-227]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u181	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have just made it clear: the PVV stands for a free choice of the consumer; we are not against eating meat and we are not against offering meat, but we want it to be produced as animal-friendly and as natural as possible. But one doesn't rule out the other. I would say: come up with more offers of well-produced meat. After all, consumers often do not choose between meat or meat; the choice is often: what meat am I going to buy? Am I gonna buy good meat, or am I gonna buy cheap meat? Fortunately, more and more people choose animal-friendly meat, with a better life mark or whatever. That's what you see in the milk. There you have the initiative to introduce the landscape milk. That's fantastic. More and more people are choosing to do so and are willing to pay a little more for it. We're very much in favour of that. Unfortunately, what I didn't get the finger on with the Minister is whether she thinks that people should eat less meat. All the pieces I've read are still breathing the atmosphere of a transformation of more animal proteins into vegetable proteins. This is a kind of influence of: people, eat less meat. We don't want that. The Minister says he's not going to do that. I had prepared a motion, but I don't have to file it. However, I am going to keep an eye on the Minister to see whether this does not result secretly in all kinds of policies and ambassadors and people who are shouting, 'you should not eat meat, because that is bad for the climate'. We're not going along with that. We will continue to fight it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u182	I just wanted to know if the PVV here really calls kilobulbs "animal-friendly" and what exactly is a description of "animal-friendly meat."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u183	If Mrs Ouwehand does not know what animal-friendly meat is, then we really have a problem. Animal-friendly meat is meat that has been produced relatively animal-friendly, i.e. in which the animal has had a reasonably good life and has ended in a humane way or at least in a non-animal-unfriendly manner. That's animal-friendly. If people can choose between a puffy chicken or a scarlet chicken, I'm glad people choose the latter. I think that choice lies with the people and should lie with them. The offer should be the better meat. You shouldn't be against that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u184	Finally, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u185	Yeah, but I was talking about the kilo shooters, and the PVV says they're animal-friendly, too. Then there is still uncertainty as to what exactly animal-friendly meat would be. Organically kept chickens in egg farming are still stuffed in crates and brought to slaughter. They'll be hung upside down on their paws. If the PVV wants to call that "animal-friendly," that's fine, but I don't think you reason in the best interests of the animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u186	Finally, Mr Madlener.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u187	The Party for Animals has a kind of black and white idea and does not like it until no meat is eaten at all. We're not going along with that. So I support the consumer's choice of animal-friendly meat. There are all kinds of hallmarks, such as the Better Life label. I'm glad it's on the package. In fact, I'd like to strengthen that. If consumer choice is better, I am sure that the consumer will choose animal-friendly meat. But that does not mean that consumers are no longer allowed to eat meat. It's just that an animal that eats you will have to be killed first. But the better that happens, the better it is. If the meat is on sale and it happens to be a kilo, I'm fine with that. The point is that the meat is well produced. I'm not going into your black and white story.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u188	Thank you. Finally, Mrs Lodders has the floor in the second term of the Chamber on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u189	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the Minister for his first reply. As I said in my first term, this debate has dealt with a great many issues. I am using my second term to ask for clarification on a question from Mr De Groot, on which he and I have also had an interruption debate. We have agreed in the government agreement that if supermarkets impose higher demands on products such as sustainability or animal welfare, supermarkets will also have to pay for them. I have heard the Minister say that she is talking to the supermarkets, but can she also indicate when the legislation to monitor them in the coalition agreement we have for that mentioned the ACM coming to the Chamber? I believe that this is also very important in the interests of the climate agreement. Farmers, gardeners and fishermen deserve a fair price, especially for the additional measures requested.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u190	Thank you. I believe that the Minister is able to respond equally to the motions tabled and the final questions. The Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality has the floor, yes, I have learned something again! For its second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u191	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Very good. Six motions and one more question. The first motion by Mrs Ouwehand, which was tabled in part No. 222, calls for room to be reserved in the 2020 budget for investments in plant protein innovations. I have just indicated that we are making funds available for information. But we also have many issues that are supported in such innovations through the top sectors. By the way, a new call is being opened up for this. So it is not that we are doing nothing there, but at the same time I do not think there is any need to do more there. So I advise against this motion. The second motion, the one in part No. 223, it's about banning kilo-bullers. I agree with Mrs Ouwehand that a farmer should receive a price that fits the efforts he has made for that product. However, I would just like to say that these cheaper meat products on the shelves are very often from, for example, Ukraine. I'm just saying that to point out that the definition of killer might be a little more difficult. Maybe you're against meat from Ukraine. I would just like to point out that the cheaper pieces of meat in the supermarket often come from Ukraine. I do not believe that certain Members are now working on what I say. I have often said here that it is complicated to impose a ban on kilo shots or too low prices, because we are dealing with other rules. Look, for example, at the agreements in the association agreement, WTO rules and that sort of thing. So we are doing this in a different way. Then we come to a bill on sustainability initiatives. That lies with my colleague from EZ. She's working on it. In doing so, you appreciate the efforts of the farmers and put something on the other side. I must therefore discourage the motion for a ban on kilo shots, but the cabinet is certainly working on the price for the farmer and the products. In his motion, Mr Moorlag asks for item No. 224 to develop reduction scenarios, calculate them and present them to the Chamber for the treatment of the national budget 2020. In this motion the reduction of livestock is a goal. I have just indicated the lines along which we are developing the vision. That's why I advise against this motion. In his motion, Mr Moorlag asks for item No. 225 for supplementary measures to be passed on to agriculture. I have just indicated that I think this is a discussion that you should have broader around the whole climate debate. I would like to leave that with my colleague from EZK. Otherwise, I would have to advise against this motion. The motion in part No. Mr Futselaar and Mrs Bromet deal with the balance between the amount of manure and what can be applied or processed. We are currently reviewing manure policy. That's a trajectory that's gonna run. For example, what can be applied or processed depends also on the capacity of manure processing. It is not the case that this only happens in the way of land use. This motion suggests that we can cut exactly how much that is with scissors. I think that is a bit ambitious, because I do not know what developments are still taking place in this area. So I think this is a somewhat absolute statement. I support the idea that I have just exchanged with Mr Futselaar about the use of animal manure. But I would advise against this motion. Then the motion to part No. Mr De Groot, rapporteur. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr De Groot on his excellent report. He's very excited about that, I understand. I have just indicated that we are already giving an incentive here on a number of points. For example, the top sectors of Agri & Food and Biochemistry have already used financial instruments in recent years, specifically for innovative entrepreneurship and research. We have a public-private social innovation programme seaweed. We even have a Zeewier platform where we develop together with innovative entrepreneurs, researchers and an NGO business cases. There is also the top sectors call for new initiatives for applied research 2020 under mission-driven innovation policy. From EZK there is also the SDE scheme, which focuses on processing. There are RVO innovation grants for seaweed entrepreneurs. In short, there are already several routes. If Mr De Groot's motion is aimed at continuing to do so, if I may read it in this way, I can give the motion judgment Chamber, because we do not intend to make any changes to it. But I do think we are already doing a lot in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u192	I do not deny that much is happening, but it is about its coherence and effectiveness. Can I put it this way, too? I would be very pleased if the Minister, in a letter on behalf of the cabinet, indicated the coherence between the various instruments, their objectives and where they are intervening in the chain. If the Minister wanted to carry out the motion in this way, we would have more insight. It's fantastic that a lot is happening, but when it comes to top sectors, I hear right away that it's about forced shopping at TNO and Wageningen University. Those aren't companies that benefit from that. So I would ask the Minister to send a letter explaining the coherence and functioning of the policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u193	I've listed five things we're doing. The question was: is it only on the production side or is it also on the processing and application side? I hope I have tried to outline that we are doing something on all these points. So I don't see much advantage in sending you a further letter on that right now. Again, if I may read the motion in such a way that it supports what we are doing, then it is okay, but I am not going to send a letter about other innovation policies right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u194	Let me take a look at Mr De Groot. Mr Geurts on this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u195	Mr De Groot has great faith in me at this time. I have a specific question for the Minister. Do I understand that the implementation of this motion, which you have just spoken about, has no financial consequences?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u196	No, it's programs that are already running. I don't have any other resources that I'm going to use for that, except the programs that are just regular. I have just indicated that a new call is also opening around the top sectors. If there are good programmes, they can be included, including in the public-private partnership. But I'm not gonna do anything extra right now, not on top of the programs that are already running. So, if I may interpret the motion in this way, I can give her judgment room. If it is the broader interpretation, as it is now sec formulated, I will have to discourage it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u197	Yeah, clear. You'll be able to explain the motion in a moment. I will put her to the vote, but if the motion is adopted, I will then ask for a letter to get its consistency and its prioritisation a little higher on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u198	Yes, but then you give your own voting advice. Then I'm going to dissuade the motion. I've just indicated to the maximum what I can do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u199	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u200	So if that's the consequence, I'm going to dissuade the motion. Well, that's the judgment now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u201	We have thus also heard the verdict on the last motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-28-tweedekamer-11.u202	Many thanks to the Minister for her input. I also thank Members of Parliament for their input and I thank all the staff who have supported the Minister, the Chamber and me. We are going to vote on the motions tabled on Tuesday, 2 April. I'm closing the meeting now.
