ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u1	The next item is the budget for Economic Affairs and Climate Change. I would like to welcome the Minister and the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy. I would like to welcome the spokesmen. Of course, it is also very welcome to the support of the rulers, although the benches are empty, but they may be somewhere else, as well as the MPs. Of course, welcome to everyone here in the Chamber and to the people who follow this debate in a different way. I suggest we get started. After this debate we have another debate, so I am trying to get the debate going in a somewhat orderly manner. That means that questions are brief and concise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u2	May I first give the floor to Mr Graus? Mr Graus speaks on behalf of the PVV Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u3	Thank you, Madam President. I'm gonna put the mic down a little bit. It's not about quantity, it's about quality, so it can be lower. Madam President. I'm always trying to figure it out. I see Minister Wiebes laughing happily, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate. Sometimes you have to stand here like a pit bull, but sometimes like a labrador. I think now I'm going for the labrador way. You give a lick once in a while and then you get a cookie or a piece of sausage. So I'm gonna try that way. So, Mr Verhoeven, I'm gonna disappoint you, but I'm gonna try the labrador way. The PVV made a historic breakthrough with the SME test. Hardly any of the media picked it up. Leendert-Jan Visser, the director of the SME Netherlands called me to congratulate me. He spoke of a historic breakthrough, but the media didn't do anything about it. Nobody did anything with it. But it came from us and we would like that SME test to be used in all decisions about nitrogen and pfas. Other colleagues of mine are going to come back to that. I am not going to go into this in depth, but we do want SMEs to be involved and to be subject to the SME test, embraced by all the departments concerned. We want an investigation into the financial, economic and social damage caused by nitrogen and pfas measures. I'm even prepared to table a motion on that. We want a monitoring: how many and which chains and companies have got into trouble? Please list all the companies that have been helped by this government, have been helped or are going to be helped. I would have liked to have had an insight into that, because it is simply impossible for us to see. We have to do it with one or one and a half policymakers. There are hundreds of them in the ministries, so they're gonna find out. Why don't you take a look at it, because we'd like to know as members of the States-General. I think I speak on behalf of a lot of parties when I ask. I heard Transavia's going to Brussels. That's all just got out. I'd like to know the consequences of that, too. What's the government gonna do about it? You can say it's a matter for the Minister of Aviation, the Minister of Infrastructure and Water State, but that doesn't matter. This is a matter that concerns the entire government. Transavia is an ancient Hollands company, a daughter of KLM, and that can have very big consequences, including for KLM and Schiphol. So this is really getting out of hand. It applies to the smallest entrepreneurs. There are also carnival entrepreneurs who say: what are the consequences for our aggregates? For our trucks, with those environmental zones? Those guys can't just buy a new truck. What are they supposed to do with the generators they've all purchased? Or are we going to kill the carnival after Black Piet, because we are no longer allowed to have fun at all? Do we all have to be sour vinegar pissers here? And all of this was caused by a substantial minority or, let me put it this way, a minority. I would have liked that list for Christmas 2019. I understand it takes quite a long time, but it's a question I'm asking. The emergency bill. The PVV has also come up with a beautiful emergency law and perhaps more will follow. One has been presented and another is now working on it. This emergency law is applied to safety as dikes, but we want it to be applied to the whole economic sector. The Ministry of Economic Affairs has made available an amount of 7.5 million a year for the dissemination of knowledge in small and medium-sized enterprises. We call for greater use of knowledge institutions and industry organisations to open up knowledge from applied research to SMEs, small and medium-sized enterprises. We also want the government to call on banks to fulfil their original tasks, namely to take savings from consumers, citizens, in order to help SMEs finance. That's why we're so in favour of a People's Bank, a People's Savings Bank. That's what the PVV has been wanting since it was founded. We just have to get back into our own hands. Apart from the financing deduction launched by the Ministry, we want to maintain the extension of the guarantee for small businesses in particular. That's the DMKB. I'd like a response. We would like to see the legal anchoring of the Dutch Franchise Code initiated by the PVV as soon as possible. That's all because of us! I remember Minister Kamp, his predecessor, talking to me like I was some kind of renegade who was wrong. No, we got it right! Now it's there and now it's all legally anchored. We want to get through it as quickly as possible, and I would have liked to have a commitment on that. Within the budget allocated, we also want to explore how the knowledge and applicability of artificial intelligence, AI, can be increased in the agro-chain, the maritime sector and the mainports. Sorry, Al's artificial intelligence, but I'm just gonna mention the word that's in the pieces. We also want to see supervisors and watchdogs such as De Nederlandsche Bank and the Authority Consumer & Markt, the ACM. We want this for the sake of an algorithm for our own sector, without hindering innovation and reducing competitiveness. I'd like a response. We want a VAT cut. It just has to go back from 9% to 6%. That could also be at the expense of the profit tax on multinationals, because those are already the rich guys. You'll have $3 billion in your pocket. We always come with a cover and a solution! That's what they always say about the PVV. I mention something, and I have the solution to it right away, Madam President! We also want something to be done about regional inequality. So we want to level excise duties with neighbouring countries. This inequality certainly affects Limburg, the province with the longest border of all Dutch provinces. There is a great deal of regional inequality and people have long since stopped filling up on their own. They also get their potatoes, their chocolates and everything. Something has to be done about this and so I would like a plan of action. I want to know what is going on here, because there is still regional inequality. We want a plan of action to preserve the primordial-Holland crafts. Oer-Hollandsche with "sch," I'm just saying for the Stenographic Service. This should be done in consultation with the Ministry of Education, Culture and Science. As far as tourism is concerned, we want a brake on the high number of increases in taxes. We would prefer to reverse it in order to achieve a level playing field. We want an approach to false competition from government agencies like the CBS. The CBS takes away dozens of assignments from the face of business with public money given by the government! Businesses cannot have all this data, and that is false competition. I know that in the past, State forestry and other state-owned companies have also been guilty of this. Then you can say there's a difference between state-owned companies and ZBOs. I know all that, but it's all one pot of wet. Something needs to be done about this, and that is why I would like it to be mapped out. I want something to be done about this false competition. Next Thursday there will be a discussion with the CBS, the Expertise Center for Marketing Insights, Research and Analytics, also called MOA and the Association for Policy Research, the VBO. They are having a conversation on Thursday, and I would prefer that both directors join us, but at least one of the two directors. The Ministry does talk to the CBS, but not to the business community. That is not possible, is it not, when it comes to the consultation rounds? I would have liked to have a commitment on that. Is there a rescue plan for Tata Steel? What's gonna happen? I'd like to know. I already mentioned Transavia. I would have liked to have had a reaction to that, too. We are opposed to all the obligations forzzp'ers, small self-employed people without staff, but we do want an information campaign to alertzzp'ers that you can get a tax advantage. By means of an information campaign, we can draw their attention to the tax advantage that you get now if you save for your pension, because you can deduct part of it. But let them know. A lot of people don't know that. A lot ofzzp'ers are ignorant. By the way, I'm gonna wrap it up, 'cause I can see it's gonna go from my time. I'll have less time in second term. But is the government also prepared to create more tax opportunities for those who invest in retirement? Now there's gonna be a really nice one. It also concerns my province. I've asked before, but new people, new opportunities. We want an investigation into how and where cars produced in the Netherlands can be used as a public vehicle; in Born Minis and BMWs are also produced. Finally, I would like to ask that, in cooperation with the Association of Dutch Municipalities, stand up for market owners and entrepreneurs by broadening the limited number of permits and not withdrawing existing market and place of employment permits. This also applies to carnival entrepreneurs with a cake stand or an oil bulb stand. I'm sure the Secretary of State likes that, "aber bitte mit Sahne." He knows exactly how that all plays. I would have liked to have had a reaction to that. So I would like her to talk to the carnival entrepreneurs again, including for exemption from environmental zones. Perhaps, for example, the Secretary of State could speak at the annual congress of the Dutch Fair Federation. I've done that twice or three times. That's so cool. They're cool, hardworking people. That's nice. Well, I'm running out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u4	Yeah, sure. You still have half a minute in second term, so that will be chosen!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u5	Yeah, but that's what I've chosen now. I'm not here on my own behalf. I'm here for the entrepreneurs. But have a good night! Good luck with all these guys here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u6	Thank you. Thank you very much for your input. I am happy to give the floor to Mr Kops. Mr Kops also speaks on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u7	Thank you, Mr President. You've been hearing almost nothing but "Nuclear" lately. You'd almost forget there's another thing called CO. And just like there is no nitrogen problem, there is no CO problem. But do you know what a problem is, a very big problem? That is the affordability of energy, or rather its unaffordability. And what's that all about? By this cabinet, which has made the expensive energy transition of CO a problem. Mr. Chairman. More than 650,000 households, I repeat: over 650,000 households, currently barely or not able to pay the energy bill. Those are often people who are literally sitting in the cold with a sweater on the couch at home. This number threatens to rise to 1.5 million households by 2030, a direct consequence of the decision to remove all homes in the Netherlands from the gas market. Energy poverty is a fact in the Netherlands. Energy is a basic requirement, but this cabinet has turned it into a very expensive luxury product with this entire CO-obsession. Yes, Chairman, "CO-obsession." And do you know what the cynical thing is? That all these CO reduction targets are not even met, despite the many billions wasted on them. 49% reduction in 2030 was planned, but will not succeed. 14% of renewable energy by 2020 was also intended, but it is not going to succeed. Then why continue with this nonsense? I quote the Minister: "If the Netherlands fails to achieve the target of 14% renewable energy by 2020, the Commission may fail the Netherlands and refer the case to the EU Court of Justice." So we see again: the Netherlands bows and crawls before the EU, afraid of the European Commission. It's a hurry to get nauseous. Billions are being thrown over the bar for some unfeasible EU ideal. They're throwing money over the beam. Mr. Chairman. That's what happens with biomass. In the coming years, the government will spend as much as 11.4 billion on subsidies for biomass. Many new power stations need to be built up because it would be sustainable. No, I didn't. That's not sustainable at all. Quite the contrary. As has been shown, biomass produces more CO net from the chimney than from the old, trusted coal and gas. Then the question is again: why should you continue with this? In response to Parliamentary questions from the PVV, the Minister writes: "On the basis of international agreements, biomass combustion emissions do not count for national emissions." I repeat, therefore, we do not count the CO emissions from biomass. Yeah, well, then it's easy to talk. Then it's no different than an accounting trick. Fake climate policy. Sustainability of appearances. I thought it was about saving the Earth and fighting climate change and the like. Well, apparently not. As long as it's all on paper. Admittedly, this whole CO-obsession does not have to be ours, but we do have the many billions wasted on this madness. By 2020 alone, as much as 729 million will be spent on biomass subsidies. Stop it! Don't do that! That money has to go back to those who coughed it up through the energy bill. Last week, the PVV tabled an amendment to regulate this, but unfortunately that amendment was voted down. All these parties here, including those who are now talking loud and clear about the fact that biomass would not be good, simply voted against that amendment. What hypocrisy! Mr. Chairman. That's pretty much climate policy in a nutshell. It just has to be. We just do it, even if it doesn't really do anything. The climate as a kind of new religion, which requires us all to get rid of the gas, to drive electric, to eat less meat and to fly less. Everything you do these days is bad for the climate. People who simply want to live their lives normally are talking about climate guilt in everything they do. Meat doubt, if you'd rather eat a meatball than a salad. Showerwaver, if you want to be in the shower for 15 minutes. Flieshamed, if you take a plane on vacation once a year. Climate stress, climate panic, climate depression: it all seems to exist nowadays. It's just being talked to people. And if you suffer from that, there are even climate psychologists who give workshops on how to live climate-friendly life. It's exactly like Paul Watson, one of the founders of Greenpeace, said: it's not about what's true, it's about what people believe is true. That's exactly the hypocrisy. While there are plenty of coal-fired power stations in China, five small power stations have to be shut down in the Netherlands. While in our neighbouring countries, Germany and Belgium, people get money when they connect to gas, in the Netherlands all households have to get rid of gas, while the Netherlands is responsible for only 0.35% of total global CO emissions. When the PVV asks the Minister what exactly its climate policy has an effect on the temperature of the earth, he literally says that this is a nonsense question. He really said it. In other words, billions are being thrown over the beam, but we cannot even ask what it is all good for, because that is nonsense. He's afraid of his own answer, afraid to say that his climate policy will reduce global warming by just 0.00007°C. So that's totally negligible. The Minister said: "The extent to which we adhere to international agreements, i.e. the Paris Climate Agreement, is not determined by the size of our country." That is, of course, easy to talk about, because the Paris Climate Agreement is precisely the problem. That Agreement entered into force on 4 November 2016. According to Article 28, a country may withdraw three years after entry into force. So that's now. That is exactly what President Trump is doing. He's already started that exit procedure. He'll keep his election promises. A party like the VVD can learn something from that. So, Minister, send a letter to the UN and state that Paris Climate Agreement. Then our own climate agreement, drawn up by the Nijpels gang, can also be pulled through the shredder. Let us be honest, in the meantime, the Minister's enthusiasm for his own climate policy seems to be far from satisfactory. But yes, coalition agreement is a coalition agreement, he must think. I quote him: "Let me put it this way, I have to do it. This is my assignment." That doesn't sound very excited. That is what Minister Wiebes says, who is, in fact, a great supporter of nuclear energy, of thorium, but who does not get through to his own coalition partners. So, Minister, go take care of it: nuclear power, thorium. That's what we need. You're a big supporter of it yourself, but you're not doing it because of your own coalition partners. I'm gonna finish up, Mr. Chairman. This proves once and for all that we do not need a cabinet with unbelievable ministers and secretaries of state who are twisting themselves into all kinds of impossible turns just to stay in power. We need a cabinet that does what's right for this country. This whole climate policy, the CO-obsession, windmills, solar panels, heat pumps, electric driving, you name it, is certainly not one of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u8	Thank you very much. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Aartsen. Mr Aartsen speaks on behalf of the VVD Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me start with a service announcement. I will kick off on behalf of the VVD on the issues of economic affairs and small and medium-sized enterprises. So all your critical climate questions may be addressed to my colleague Mark Harbers. That's always nice to say and to start a debate like this, Mr President. Mr. Chairman. A while ago, my group chairman was here during the General Political Reviews. He talked there about his Eindhoven, the city where he grew up, and the Philips society he saw there. In that society there was reciprocity between business and society, where a large company was part of that same society. Fortunately he has become a bit smarter and lives in my beautiful Breda, the city where I come from and still live. In Breda we had no Philips, no big companies that built entire residential areas, where the whole city worked, or who founded their own pay football club and sponsored them themselves. The latter is probably the reason why my beloved NAC is now dangling somewhere halfway through the Kitchen Champion Division. I'll say with a wink to the Secretary of State: fortunately one place higher than FC Volendam. So Breda didn't have a major multinational that formed the city. However, we had much smaller entrepreneurs in Breda. Breda is therefore really an entrepreneurial city, a small town, where a lot of trade has been driven from the past. Apart from a number of large candy factories and a beer brewery Breda still consists mainly of small and medium-sized companies. It is not a Philips society but an SME society. Where reciprocity in large companies is a mission statement or a vision document, it is a matter of course for the local entrepreneur. It sponsors the local football club, the local sinterklaas trek or the flower corso, which offers young people cool internships. It is the local entrepreneur who just gives you that personal advice in the store and who is involved in the local fair. For example, there are many more villages and cities in the Netherlands that are an SME society. Entrepreneurs are doers, people who are in the middle of society and sticking their hands out. They are the ones who make sure that there is life in the brewery and give our country color on the cheeks. They show courage by starting for themselves, seeing opportunities and dare to stick their necks out. Entrepreneurs form the beating heart. As far as we're concerned, we should be a little more proud of that. The VVD finds that in The Hague, unfortunately, we still talk too negative about companies. My colleagues in this Chamber regularly claim that the money should go either to business or to society. I think that is a false contradiction, as if business, SMEs, were outside our society. That's bullshit. As I said just now, these local entrepreneurs are right in the middle of society. I would like to focus more on the little ones here in The Hague, rather than on the negative examples and the big companies. Because let's face it: these big examples are only 0.2% of all companies in the Netherlands. 0.2% is made up of large companies. The rest of this group is small and medium-sized enterprises. Those entrepreneurs do not deserve negative words, but gratitude. They deserve to be appreciated, because where would our country be without shopkeepers, without middlemen, without SMEs and without family businesses? As many as 71% of all employees in the Netherlands work for an SME. In total, SMEs account for 4.5 million sandwiches invested in families at home. After the nurse and the police officer, the local entrepreneur is appointed by the Dutch as the most reliable person. These local entrepreneurs do not deserve to be treated as a single sausage, to be seen as one group. Instead of putting all these entrepreneurs together, we need to apply much more tailor-made and differentiation within SMEs. We talk too often about business and SMEs, but there is no such thing as business or SMEs. You havezzp'ers, shopkeepers with a number of people in service, start-ups, scale-ups, family businesses, growth companies, middle companies and you name it all. You can't just differentiate by the number of fte or by the size of the company. One SME is not the other. An ICT programmer who wants to do a new project every year for a cool company is something quite different from a family business that sells bicycles. A baker from Dongen with five people in service is something other than a hip start-up on an Amsterdam campus with exactly the same number of employees. And so I can call many more entrepreneurs, with all their own needs and needs. And yet the government often sees them as one homogeneous group. The government too often uses a "one size fits nobody" policy as far as we are concerned. And it has to be different, so the VVD thinks. We should make a much better distinction between government-wide and far more differentiated between types of companies, based on size, type and industry. I therefore call on the cabinet to get to work on this and I would like to hear a response from the directors. Mr. Chairman. That differentiation from the government is urgently needed. The relationship between SMEs and public authorities is sometimes quite complicated. Many SMEs face regulatory pressure, especially against rules devised by the public authorities, and often with a noble purpose. But in the execution the rules look a bit like the big business. We will need to think much more from SMEs when making new legislation. How do these rules work out in practice for the average SME's? Let me give you an example. Since this year...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u10	Before proceeding, there is a question from Mr Öztürk. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u11	The average SME listener at home thinks: what has the VVD done for us over the past ten years? Last year the VVD was here for three companies: Shell, AkzoNobel and Unilever. They wanted to give 1.2 billion tax dollars to these big multinationals. Unfortunately for them, that didn't work out. It's a good thing it didn't work out. But what has the VVD brought in the last ten years? Let me give you a few examples: the government takes away the self-employed deduction in eight years, it increases energy taxation and VAT has gone from 6% to 9%.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u12	A question is brief and concise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u13	The bpm return was taken from taxi drivers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u14	Your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u15	What has the VVD been doing for that little entrepreneur for the past ten years, as you're trying to talk a little more beautifully now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u16	In recent years, corporate tax has gone down. Income tax will be substantially reduced next year. A lot of people with a one-man business, with a vulture, will benefit from that. I also refer to making the work-cost scheme more SME-friendly. There are a number of examples I can give you. The point is that we are speaking positively here about the SMEs and making positive proposals. I look forward to the DENK proposals. I will come up with a number of concrete proposals on what more we can do for small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u17	Let me give you a few more examples. According to CBS, entrepreneurial confidence went from 10.6 to 6.6 in the fourth quarter. In construction, this has fallen even more: from 20.6 to 15.3. In the ICT and telecoms sector, it has fallen from 25% to 9.5%. This is a VVD cabinet. Over the past ten years, the VVD has simply destroyed SMEs...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u18	Your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u19	...and cut off. You're sitting here telling a nice puppy story, but what have you been doing for the past ten years? Entrepreneurial confidence is just shattered.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u20	I am glad that Mr Öztürk can read another fine note that he has created, but he must take all the figures. There are a number of examples I can give you. If you take the figures, you will see that over 300,000 SMEs have joined in the last decade. Net! You can wave that away, but those are the figures that are available and indicated by the CBS. So if you could just get your figures straight, we could all turn off the list of measures in a moment. I can also turn that list off, but the facts are that 300,000 more SMEs have joined in 10 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u21	I see that the new spokesperson of the VVD does not yet fully know what has happened to SMEs and entrepreneurs over the last ten years. Let me give you another example: lending. I've been working on this for ten years with your minister, with your own cabinet. The latest figures. Bank loans to SMEs; CBS. Eurozone: worst weather. Even Greece is doing better. Things get worse every year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u22	Your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u23	Every year I hear from this cabinet and the VVD: we are going to do our best, we are going to talk to the banks, we are going to make sure that the small entrepreneur gets credit. No, the big businessman and the multinational get 99% of his loans for 1% interest. The small entrepreneur must pay interest from Qredits 8,7%. Whoo-hoo! Whoo-hoo! That's what the VVD brought.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u24	If Mr Öztürk advocates and makes good proposals to improve lending among SMEs, he will find me on his side. But he just called himself CBS figures. He should not claim here that SMEs were destroyed by this cabinet. Over the last ten years, I would like to mention this once again: 300,000 companies have joined. I can give you another list, just like you do. But I would like to say to Mr Öztürk: will we simply make a number of proposals that will benefit SMEs rather than lists that are beautifully prepared? Why don't we step on that together?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u25	Over the past ten years, the VVD has had time with their economic ministers to help SMEs, but it has not. And now you're trying to challenge me to come up with proposals? Yeah, I'm coming up with six motions right now, but that's not the point. Your own cabinet and your own minister, who had the voice of the entrepreneurs, have abandoned the entrepreneur. In the last year towards the elections, you leave the multinationals a little out of the way and try to get the small businessman. Why? That's where the voices are. So the VVD grabs the entrepreneur and when it's election time they try to trick the entrepreneur here nice stories. But the entrepreneur doesn't fall for that anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u26	Your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u27	My question is: do you dare to address this cabinet, so that the banks deal with it, so that the banks give credit to the small entrepreneurs again? Because this minister and secretary of state are afraid to deal with the banks. These banks become richer and richer and the entrepreneur becomes poorer and poorer. Do you dare?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u28	Thank you. Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u29	Absolutely. I think we will have another AO on funding in a few weeks' time. Then we'll talk to the cabinet about...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u30	Ten years!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u31	I would like to say something about that, because I think that is a silly remark. It's easy, isn't it, if you're going to scream with a few seats from the benches without dirty hands: you've been sitting for so many years. But if the criterion is that only people should stand here with good ideas for small and medium-sized enterprises who have never been in the cabinet, half of this room can go home. Perhaps that is something Mr Öztürk would like. We need to make good proposals here for SMEs. That's our job. If Mr Öztürk has a good proposal, I will certainly support him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u32	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u33	Mr. Chairman. I was talking about the way rules work out in practice for small and medium-sized enterprises. It is often a question of rules that have been devised for a noble purpose, but which turn out to be different in practice. Let me give you an example. Since this year, SMEs have been obliged to report on what we call the Environmental Management Act. We ask entrepreneurs to take sustainability measures that will return within five years. That is a noble goal, especially if they are also economically profitable. A large company will then have a proper report drawn up and will make those investments. But how does this law work out for SMEs? And is it feasible and portable for smaller entrepreneurs? Making such a report is a time-consuming and costly job for a small entrepreneur. In addition, we can call on the entrepreneur to take measures that will be profitable within five years, but what if he doesn't have that money in his account or if he can't get funding from the bank? Then it'll be over soon. I would like to hear from the directors whether they recognise these practical situations and whether they can see how they can help SMEs in this situation. The VVD therefore advocates giving these small entrepreneurs an extra financial boost, so that they can also make these investments. In this context, the amendment tabled by Agnes Mulder and Mark Harbers on behalf of the entire coalition must also be seen. In addition to the fact that the government itself comes up with rules, there are also existing government rules, existing legislation, where entrepreneurs run into them and who block them in their innovative power, or even worse, hinder them from going along with their time. Last week we received a letter of fire from many retailers in retail. One of their calls was: "Get rid of that compelling legislation. Make sure that we can focus on innovation, for example on experience in our store. Let's sell that cup of coffee. Let us pour a glass of prosecco when someone buys a beautiful wedding dress." I therefore hope that my colleagues will support the VVD's initiative law on blurring. So we can also give the retail an extra support in the back. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the role of the government itself. In some cases, the government competes directly with entrepreneurs, for example when entrepreneurs operate a marina, camping or motorhome place. They must fight and compete against unfair competition from the government. My question to the Secretary of State is: when does she expect to come up with the Market and Government Act so that we can tackle this unfair competition and thus stand before these entrepreneurs? Mr. Chairman. The world around us is changing fast. Many entrepreneurs earn their living in the wider world. The Netherlands is a strong trading country and exports many beautiful products. The Netherlands is known worldwide for its quality and innovation. It is precisely because we export so much that we also depend on free trade and the open world market. I'm starting a whole new block right now, so maybe this is the time for an interruption on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u34	Okay, thank you. Then there is a question from Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u35	I thought Mr Aartsen was at the end of his speech. I would like to come back to something he said at the beginning of his speech, namely that you should look at SMEs a little more differentiated. A report on the tourism industry has recently been published. The PBL issued that report. It has said that there should actually be much more attention from the Empire and that there should be a national vision of tourism. Tourism creates twice as many jobs as agriculture, for example. We have a whole ministry for that, while I think the Secretary of State has a few FTEs for tourism. Does Mr Aartsen share my view that such a differentiated approach to SMEs also includes a sector-specific approach to tourism?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u36	I think this is a good analysis by Mr Moorlag, because that is exactly my point. In fact, we are only now differentiated by numbers of FTE. I think that's limited. You can look at legal forms or types of companies, but also at branches and sectors. In this respect, this fits in well. I think that, and I do not think that we are so different about this, it would be better if we were to talk much more about tourism in this House with the Secretary of State, because it is an important sector where there are enormous economic opportunities, but where the knife actually cuts both sides. We can improve the quality of life in the places where we are talking about over-tourism by creating more spread. But there are also places where they are jumping for tourism, because it creates jobs and facilities. There they say, "Please let the tourists come." So I think that if we take this as a politically smart approach, we can create a thriving sector for the future that cuts both sides of the knife.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u37	I am pleased that the suggestion contained in my question falls into fertile soil and I look forward to the rest of the debate. The second question I would like to put to Mr Aartsen is the following. I was pleasantly surprised by the tone during the General Reviews of the VVD: companies are completely detached from society and need to be much more inclusive of society. From SMEs there are many complaints about unfair competition and the unequal playing field that SMEs have vis-à-vis, for example, large internet shops. They let plugs in via Schiphol Airport, they do not meet the safety requirements and there is no need to pay any VAT. Does Mr Aartsen share my view that we should remove that unequal playing field for entrepreneurs?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u38	Yeah, absolutely. I also admit to Mr Moorlag's psychic gifts, because that is the block I would go to by now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u39	Then I would say: proceed with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u40	Yes, that would be useful, Mr. Chairman, because then the answers will come. As I said earlier, precisely because we export so much, we also depend on free trade and an open world market. These are under considerable pressure from the dangers of a trade war between America and China, but also from the forthcoming Brexit. Dutch trade policy and also Dutch diplomacy should be much more focused on helping and supporting SMEs abroad. My colleague will say a little more about that. I also said that we also see other threats to entrepreneurs. This is unfair competition by Chinese Internet giants in particular, who are currently threatening the fair playing field. They do that in three ways. The Chinese do not pay VAT below €22. They have shady deals that reduce the cost of shipping and simply patch our safety requirements to their boots. The VVD has been on the back of the cabinet for a long time with entire books full of written questions to address this problem. I am glad that even under the €22, VAT will finally be levied on Chinese products, because it will simply create a fairer playing field. There is also progress at last in making the shipping costs fairer. That leaves the unsafe products that come into Europe from China. As Mr Moorlag said, we still see too many iPhone plugs burning or cosmetics products that we have to guess what the hell is in them. When is the cabinet really gonna do this? Let's hold those Chinese interracials and those platfora responsible for themselves, because if we can call them and see if they can keep their distribution center here in the Netherlands, then we can also call them to ask if they want to keep their dangerous products with them. If Dutch entrepreneurs have to follow the rules, so must Chinese. Mr. Chairman. I have just spoken about the cooperation between Philips and SMEs. Fortunately, these two often go hand in hand. We see good examples in which the large business cooperates well with small and medium-sized enterprises in order to bring together new earning models, innovations and economic growth. A company like ASML works together in Eindhoven with 2,200 SMEs on innovations for the future. Everyone benefits from that. Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, we also see less positive examples. I would like to mention some of them. We see situations where large companies abuse their dominant position and market size. We see situations in which business models are created in the knowledge that entrepreneurs are not legally going to compete against those big anonymous companies. For example, we see this in ICT strangulation contracts or too long payment periods. We have arranged it in the Netherlands in such a way that if companies disagree, they can go to court. Unfortunately, in a number of cases, this system is not working properly. An SME who has a sandwich lunch and doesn't get his money on time simply doesn't hire an expensive lawyer and then compete against an army of lawyers from such a large anonymous group. For example, there are a number of other examples. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State whether she recognizes this and also what she is prepared to do about it. Another problem between SMEs and large companies, where the VVD has been hammering out for years now, is the third year in a row, the ban on pawning that is enforced in some contracts. This leaves SMEs more than 1 billion in credits that it cannot get because they are banned in a number of contracts, which means that they cannot use these claims either. My question to the Secretary of State is where the legislation on this issue is. We have seen this coming back a number of times and we have mentioned this as a VVD a number of times, but the cabinet continues to linger on this point. We want action quickly on this point. Finally...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u41	A question from Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u42	First of all, I would like to congratulate you on the point that is being made about legal inequality. Small and medium-sized enterprises are often totally behind when it comes to taking action against large companies. But there is also another legal component to this story, namely that parties who sue against SMEs often sue with legal aid. How does the VVD feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u43	Then Mr Van Haga should be a little more specific. What type of companies, parties or individuals does he mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u44	I'm actually trying to explain something about individuals taking something away from an SME, for example a plasterer who has stumbled onto a private individual. The private individual does not pay, appears to have no money and then receives legal aid. Small and medium-sized enterprises have to incur enormous costs, while private individuals do not incur any costs at all. That is the same kind of inequality you mentioned earlier in your speech, but on the other hand. I hope that you, perhaps with me, will have a solution to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u45	I don't know if supporting individuals is necessarily the problem. As a matter of fact, I spoke to bailiffs a few weeks ago. They say that even if the judge passes a judgment, 90% of the cases are not even executed. I think that's a situation where there's a problem. If Mr Van Haga has concrete proposals or ideas on this matter, the VVD is always prepared to take a good look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u46	We're gonna work on it together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u47	Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to talk about the growth strategy that the cabinet is currently working on. It is extremely important for the VVD. Over the centuries, the Netherlands has been one of the most prosperous countries in the world and we are proud of that. That is beautiful, but returns from the past unfortunately offer no guarantees for the future; a winged statement. We see countries around us taking bigger steps and we see that the ordinary household wallet is under pressure. We must therefore get to work quickly with the middle class and the entrepreneurs. The cake simply needs to be bigger. Our earning capacity will have to rise a lot in the years to come. The VVD therefore thinks it is important that we do not wait endlessly and go back into a paper exercise. In the short term, too, we need to make additional investment possible, especially where we can make significant growth steps and growth leaps, for example when it comes to innovation or infrastructure. How's the Minister gonna take care of that? When can we, as a Chamber, expect this firm and ambitious government agenda with regard to the growth fund and our capacity for growth? The VVD would like us to have a debate on this this year, so that we do not waste any time on this issue. I'm finishing up, Mr. Chairman. Last Friday was the entrepreneur's day, a nice initiative to put many entrepreneurs in the spotlight and thank them for what they mean to our society. Our society simply cannot live without these entrepreneurs and without small and medium-sized enterprises. They are invaluable for the Netherlands. And we should be more proud of that once in a while. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u48	Thank you very much. There is a question from Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u49	I waited for Mr Aartsen to discuss the sustainable growth letter on which Mr Wiebes is working as a substantive preparation for the investment fund. Well, here's what I noticed today. Across the street, the Financial Reviews take place. The spokesperson for the VVD, Mr Wever, stated that the VVD was against debt-taking for consumer expenditure, including in relation to the investment fund. I thought that was quite remarkable. What's the VVD's status on that investment fund? How should I interpret Mr Wever's words?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u50	That last question should have been put to the colleague of GroenLinks in the First Chamber, I think. Dual as we are, I cannot speak on behalf of the First Parliamentary Group. Fortunately, I can speak on behalf of the House of Representatives. I agree with my colleague in the First Chamber that we cannot do consumer expenditure, expenditure that we should normally spend in the budget, expenditure that we should do structurally, from such a fund, and that it is not good to take loans for it. Of investments in our growth potential, occasional investments that render and ensure that our country can flourish and generate growth potential, the VVD Group in the House of Representatives is in favour.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u51	Well, that's taken. Mr Aartsen's whole speech is actually a praise to the small entrepreneur, to reduce regulatory pressure and a fair playing field. A very recognizable VVD sound. But when it comes to our future earning ability, which is necessary in view of the medium-term exploration that the CPB has published on the cost of ageing, I do not hear in any way a new interpretation of how the Netherlands will earn its money in the future. Can't you give the Minister something of a substantive direction on this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u52	Let me say two things about that. In my opinion, this growth comes from entrepreneurs. This growth must come from SMEs. If you look at how much the added value is there and if you look at how many jobs are coming from there, the growth potential will come from there. For example, let's look at family businesses. I will table a motion on this later. Some family businesses, for example, started 30 years ago. They've been able to see the growth from 10 to 20 to 50 or maybe 100 people. We need to look carefully at the current bottlenecks which may make it less easy for the current family businesses to do so. I have some examples of this, but they are too extensive to be done here. I think it is an important first step that SMEs should continue to grow. This should be able to continue to grow, for example when it comes to employership, tax regulations and transferring them to a next generation. Mr. Chairman. In my opinion, the growth agenda has been discussed a number of times in the General Political Reviews and here too. For example, I believe that we need to focus on innovation or infrastructure. I think it would be wise to wait for the letter from the cabinet before we leave the country politically. I think that's a sensible order.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u53	I find it very disappointing that the VVD in no way gives a substantive view of where future growth should come from. In his speech, Mr Aartsen denounces the unequal playing field caused by Chinese Internet companies or large tech giants from America who have just created and achieved this level of state aid. Then he must also be able to indicate what the substantive priorities in the growth letter should be about?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u54	I keep calling for innovation and infrastructure. At the moment, these are two simple words, but I think it would be wise not to say, as a political one, that if you could sponsor that project, could you do that key technology? Because when politicians do that, we know one thing for sure: that usually doesn't go well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u55	What Mr Aartsen is saying here is a nice disqualification from top sector policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u56	That's something else, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u57	Anyway, the question wasn't about that. I just wanted to go back to the trade agreements that were just sung by Mr Aartsen. I was wondering why he dropped the peasants like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u58	We're not dropping the farmers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u59	Perhaps Mr Aartsen does not know that the conclusion of trade agreements, such as CETA or Mercosur, is at the expense of farmers in the Netherlands. So my question is why Mr Aartsen is dropping the farmers so much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u60	I believe that Mr Van Raan and the VVD have a great difference of opinion on what free trade can mean for a country. I think there are a lot of agricultural entrepreneurs who export a lot. The Netherlands is the second exporter in the field of agriculture in the world. I myself have been active in trade missions in my working life, although not with farmers. But then you will see exactly how important it is, for example, that there is free trade in the field of pears in the case of India. I think that's important. With regard to CETA, I say: if we succeed as a country to not even with a country like Canada... I think some of our left-wing colleagues might have posters on the wall of the Prime Minister of Canada. But if Europe does not even manage to conclude a trade agreement with countries like Canada, then it will be very bad with our free trade.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u61	I wish Mr Aartsen every success in explaining to his own farmers what these free trade agreements mean. Here's what I'm gonna ask you. Does Mr Aartsen feel that the level playing field should be maintained, in particular in order to prevent cheap products from flooding the Netherlands thanks to Mr Aartsen's free trade agreements, what kind of CO border tax, for example, which attracts polluting products at least to the level of Dutch pricing? Do you think he feels like a CO-border tax?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u62	My first reaction would be a little negative, but I would like to refer, with your permission, to my colleague Mr Harbers, who is talking about CO policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u63	Okay. You were at the end of your speech. Thank you very much. I am happy to give the floor to Mr Harbers. Mr Harbers also speaks on behalf of the VVD Group. There is occasional reference to motions that we table later. That is not today, but it will be tomorrow, in the continuation of this debate. I call Mr Harbers. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u64	Mr. Chairman. Following the conclusion of the Climate Agreement, it is clear how much work needs to be done in the coming decades to achieve at least as prosperous a low carbon society. We can do that in the Netherlands, and more than that. At the same time, we can gain knowledge and make money from it and become a new trading centre in the energy sector. But it won't happen on its own. It starts with support. It's crucial that people know what they're up to. Everyone must be able to make the transition. It has to be manageable and affordable. You really don't have to take all the measures at once. On the contrary, that is not very easy. Municipalities are now drawing up the Regional Energy Strategies. In addition, there are municipalities and regions that think very well in what order you can make neighbourhoods gasless, but sometimes it is also a bit bumpier. Next year is the first test moment at which these strategies appear. Do they deliver together a solid plan for the whole of the Netherlands? Where can residents and companies go for good, objective information about their own situation? Where do you get accessible, without ghost images, information about the steps you can take yourself? Not only for now but above all for decisions on which you can really do a lot of time. How does the Minister see this? What happens to guide residents, entrepreneurs and municipalities in that energy transition? After the information is provided, the financial support will follow. The Heat Fund is necessary. We hope that this will be done as soon as possible and in accordance with the Climate Agreement. Mr. Chairman. The technical side, too, always raises new questions, not only about biomass......................................................................................................................................................................................... How does the Minister respond to this? It is also important to be in the same playing field as our neighbouring countries for the sake of acceptance. It is good that the new European Commission intends to take more direction, but that should be done well. For example, the money released over the next ten years through an investment plan should be spent effectively on projects that deliver the greatest value added per euro, and preferably not on countries that do not have their budgets and climate policies in order. There are also unique aspects... I'm going to a new block.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u65	Okay. A question from Mr Sienot.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u66	I heard Mr Harbers speak to my great pleasure about matters that are also of interest to me, such as great support and spending your euro as effectively as possible. I also heard him mention biomass. There are a lot of questions about the rounds. Is there enough pruning and twigwood for all those big wood stoves, where all these billions of devouring subsidies go? Isn't biomass a transition fuel? Do we really have to bring so much subsidy there? How does Mr Harbers respond to these concerns and growing discomfort?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u67	By taking on the climate agreement. That often helps with these kinds of topics. That agreement was supported by Mr Sienot and his group. Then you see that all these concerns have been recognised and that there is an answer to them. There are concerns about small biomass plants in neighborhoods. Should they all be realized in this form? The cabinet has taken it upon itself to come up with a framework for this. There are concerns about air quality, that you need to frame it. In fact, it says literally that the question is whether all these power stations should be implemented in this way. On the other hand, we can look at the standards we set in terms of biomass itself to ensure that it is indeed a residual product. Then it is in line and circular with what you intend to do with the Climate Agreement. This concerns cutting waste and waste, but also the waste from forests used for the production of wood for housing and furniture. If you deal with this in a smart way and therefore actually do exactly what is in the Climate Agreement, then I think you can overcome these concerns as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u68	We are indeed also under the climate agreement. We also see these concerns and we also see that there is an address in the Climate Agreement, of which we can follow the direction, but we do see a timing issue. This timing issue has to do with the fact that all regions are now planning and looking at biomass and the subsidy to provide their energy. We think that's vulnerable. At the same time, you mentioned a lot of directives that are contained in the Climate Agreement, which is precisely why we want to avoid excessive subsidies. Moreover, the problem of nitrogen has been added. We're in the middle of a nitrogen crisis. So my question is again: does the VVD share with us the concern that we may need to speed up here a little bit more to prevent us from asking motorists to drive 100 km/h in order to emit less nitrogen and at the same time subsidise wood stoves to emit more nitrogen?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u69	That answer is in the Climate Agreement to carry out this kind of thing. Where I have just said that the regional strategies should also produce a good plan for the Netherlands together, this can also be part of a review of how these plans are all being implemented and whether they also take into account the biomass framework that is still to come. There is one thing I must correct: it is not the case that new subsidies are being used, but the government must, of course, follow up on past commitments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u70	Mr Harbers was just talking about the basis of support. If that's what the VVD says, you're gonna have to worry about something. Recently, it has just been investigated by the SCP. It has proved quite clear that there is no support for this at all. There are people who literally say: we have to live gasless but we don't want it at all, because we're being robbed with it and it's being forced on us without asking us anything. Those are just the results of such an investigation. So how dare Mr Harbers talk about acceptance, that there is not at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u71	That is why I am in favour of developing this support. I also see some of the concerns raised by Mr Kops. But then it doesn't start to say: it doesn't have to be all of us and you don't have to do anything about it. I'm fixing two things. There is a Climate Agreement and the Netherlands participates in it. I, too, see that there is something going on with the climate on earth. That's what we put in our election program as a VVD. I shall now move into Mr Kops' thinking world. If you refuse to acknowledge that there is a climate problem, you will still have to have an answer to two other questions. Then you will have to have an answer to the question of how the Netherlands will provide its energy in the future. Now that we are right to say goodbye to the large-scale gas extraction in Groningen because of the earthquakes, we as the Netherlands will have to develop alternatives. It would be useful to make sure that this is also the alternatives of the future, because then you can earn money from it. So you have to look on the one hand at what the energy will be in the future, and on the other hand you have to have an answer for our companies about what they can make their money from in the future. Because if you're the only country in this part of the world that's so weird to say "we don't believe the rest of the world and we don't believe there's a climate problem," then it's true that our companies are being paid for. That is the same why Trump in the US says not to participate in Paris, but the companies and many states say: we will continue because we will also have to earn our money in the economy of the future, which is going to be low in CO.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u72	A very long answer. I'm just trying to sort things out. Climate crisis, says Mr Harbers. Can he explain exactly what that is? Maybe he's got some numbers on him, but I can help him out a little bit. For decades, all kinds of predictions have been made. The world would end. That still hasn't happened. At the end of the 1980s, the UN claimed that if global warming in 2000 was not brought under control almost 20 years ago, the rising sea level would wash away entire countries. It didn't happen. It was also said at the UN that whole nations could be wiped off the face of the earth by rising sea levels. That was in the 1980s, but it still hasn't happened. So can Mr Harbers explain exactly what this climate crisis is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u73	I'm glad that didn't happen. These are processes that take a lot longer. But on the day you were supposed to take action, you're decades too late. Mr Kops cannot deny that, for example, since the 1980s, which he cites, there has been massive investment in the Netherlands to arm us further against sea level increases, even because this is necessary. We need storm surges and higher dikes. All this must be done, but at some point there is an end to what you can do. But we can't make that bet. Of course, we can see if Mr Kops is right or if I am right, but when you think in 2060 or 2080 or 2100 "gosh, it's gotten a little worse," you're too late to take action. If so much research around the world points out that something is going on, if you can implement sensible policies and if you can, anyway, replace finite fuels, fossil fuels, with fuels that you enjoy for centuries, I think it's just crazy smart to do that, especially if the Netherlands can do that very well and soon with that knowledge worldwide can make an enormous amount of money.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u74	Is Mr Harbers then willing to listen to someone who knows? Recently, the Delta Commissioner, Mr Glass, gave an interview in De Telegraaf. He was literally asked: rising sea level accelerated? No. Is there a reason to panic? No. Should we be worried? No. How much does that sea level go up? About 2 millimeters a year. Harder than the last few decades? No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u75	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u76	Is Mr Harbers prepared to listen to such a person and stop the panicmongering that we are having a climate crisis? 'Cause that's just not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u77	Well, there's a little selective shopping in that newspaper article. I am very willing to listen to the Delta Commissioner, precisely because he is a wise person who makes sure that we take measures in time to arm ourselves against that risk of sea level rising.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u78	Let's start with the good news. Is Mr Harbers saying that there is a climate crisis?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u79	I would point out that there was reason for the Netherlands and also for the VVD to support the Treaty of Paris. That's what we did.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u80	That is not an answer to the question, Mr President, so I would appreciate it if you did not include the next question as a question because I repeat it. I hear Mr Harbers talking about a climate crisis. I just want to congratulate him on that, because it is, I think, the first time that a VVD person speaks the word 'climate crisis'.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u81	No. Then I'll do a little political work here: if the Party for Animals wants to ride a climate crisis in me, I'll be drawn back into measures taken by the Party for Animals. So, for the sake of safety, let me keep some distance from Mr Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u82	This is very special. I'm fine with it all. If Mr Harbers speaks to someone else in terms of a climate crisis...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u83	I said, there's something wrong with the climate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u84	Mr Harbers, Mr Van Raan has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u85	...and doesn't do that to me, that's fine with me. But it is important to mark that moment. Mr Harbers attaches great importance to cost-effectiveness. That was the issue in the context of biomass. A special species are the fermenters. This costs about €325 per tonne of CO avoided. This is much more than, for example, costs a tonne of CO in the ETS system. So that's insanely expensive for 0.09% reduction. Does Mr Harbers think this is a responsible measure? I also agree with him when he comes back to that in the second term, because it is quite detailed. After this, I have a general question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u86	No, I also read the information we received today. It does leave room to ask you that question. But then I will return to what I said to Mr Sienot: I will look at the Climate Agreement and see if those questions have already been recognised. These issues have been recognised. The Climate Agreement already states that you need to take the best applications for biomass and do cascading. That's all gonna work out. I suspect that this demand for fertilisers can be very good with that. It just wasn't done after noon, so Mr Van Raan will also have to have a little patience until all these things have been sorted out over the next two years, so that you can use biomass in the most sensible way, which you really need in the next ten or twenty years to make the transition at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u87	Now Mr Harberts tempts me to make the following statement. We don't have to wait two months for it at all, because this was already calculated by the PBL, which was already in the climate agreement pass-through. So that calculation's been there a long time. The PBL indicates that a manure fermenter with a price of €325 per avoided tonne of CO2 is by far the most expensive non-cost-efficient measure proposed in the Climate Agreement. How does Mr Harbers feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u88	That's an expensive measure. The answer I give is the same. That also has to do with transitions. There are also a few things in it that you do for a few years, which you think after a few years: it can be better. But I'm not gonna take it out one-on-one. For me, the solution to the whole issue of biomass will be to look at it in a sensible way and to do exactly what the climate agreement says, namely to come up with that framework, to come up with, for example, the emission standards for particulate matter and then to make the best possible assessment. And on the other hand, acknowledge that you really need it for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u89	Then my... Yeah, I'm gonna go right through it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u90	Yes, you're going very fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u91	According to me, I'm on a piece or three...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u92	This will be your seventh. And then I'm...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u93	...coulant. And how many do we have again?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u94	We've got eight.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u95	I'll save it for a while. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u96	Thank you. Mr. Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u97	This brings back all sorts of things to me. Then I think: shall I ask Mr Harbers about that too? But I'm not gonna do that, because then I'm gonna lose my interruptions. I hear Mr Harbers talking about support and regional energy strategies. That's what my question is about. I come quite a lot in the country and hear all my municipal groups say that these Regional Energy Strategies have to go through them so quickly, that they have to fight for a city council to get another or two months to find anything at all, let alone get to the people. The latter is, in my view, essential in order to gain some support. Sometimes it's a lot of windmills or solar panels. It's really about huge surfaces. I think everyone knows what kind of emotion that evokes. The examples of this have already been mentioned. My question is whether Mr Harbers is getting the same kind of signals. Is he also hearing that the period for municipal councils, and especially for residents, is simply too short to really gain support for these Regional Energy Strategies?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u98	Yeah, I hear sounds like that too, from one region more than from the other. So there are also regions that, I think, have organized the process smarter. But in the first place, I say to council members who appeal to me: you are a city councilman yourself; fight for a moment that is also part of politics that you will get that space. And there are happy regions where that can be done. But at the heart of the matter, if it all doesn't work out, I agree with Mr Stoffer. That space should be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u99	My second question is this. I see in many regions that it is not happening. I've had a lot of councilmen on my neck saying, "Give us some room." Would Mr Harbers also be in favour of creating that space?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u100	Yeah, but then we'll have to find out if there's a problem. That is why I have already asked questions about the Regional Energy Strategies. I would like to begin by looking forward to the Minister's answer tomorrow. I wonder how he looks at these trials. If this problem really occurs on a large scale, then you should look at it. But I didn't do that survey all over the country. At the same time, a badly organised process in such a region should not become the excuse to say: well, then we take a year longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u101	We'll keep looking tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u102	Thank you. Mr Harbers continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u103	Mr. Chairman. I would have stayed with Europe. There are also unique aspects of the Netherlands, with which we deviate from neighbouring countries. For example, we have a lot of money and little space. In some other Member States this is the opposite. In the Netherlands, space is also becoming increasingly scarce, even for sustainability projects. Think of the current nitrogen debate alone. Cooperation on renewable projects abroad can then have advantages, provided that it does not lead to poorly controlled wild-west practices where we spend money without knowing exactly what we get back. A motion has previously been adopted in this Chamber to examine how this type of cooperation can be used to achieve our goals. We're still waiting on that investigation. We would like to have the results quickly, so that we can arrive at a real balance-sheet framework on whether certain projects are worth investing. Mr. Chairman. For the sake of security of supply, it is important to focus not only on renewable energy, but also on constant energy sources, on adjustable power and on techniques that can lead to a reduction in CO emissions in the future, such as nuclear energy, CCS and hydrogen. The Climate Agreement lays down an ambitious hydrogen programme. As far as the VVD is concerned, it should be ensured that the Netherlands can actually be a frontrunner in this area. What efforts is the Minister making to this end? During the debate on the Coal Ban Act in electricity production, a motion was adopted to investigate further the possible role of nuclear energy in the future energy mix. I would like to remind the Minister as a declared fan of nuclear energy of this motion, which says that the cabinet must have completed that investigation by the end of 2019. That's a few more weeks, so the key question is, where are we on that? What you generally hear less about in the discussion is that it is necessary to maintain a buffer of adjustable power in the future energy mix. How does the Minister shape that? Mr. Chairman. When I look at the money, like more often, it's for the benefit. First, the future benefits. By clearly opting for the energy transition, the Netherlands can develop a earning model to make it an export success, but how does that take shape? How do we prevent investments from being made not in the Netherlands but elsewhere, despite the efforts announced in the Climate Agreement to properly monitor the large industrial clusters and, if necessary, to provide additional support? If this is not actively addressed, investments and jobs can leak out. I'd like to hear the Minister's response to this. For earning power, we also need the knowledge to sell elsewhere. In the Netherlands, incredibly much knowledge is being developed. I already mentioned hydrogen. I also welcome the fact that Dutch researchers are at the forefront of thorium research. In many places, for example, very good ground-breaking research is carried out. The VVD expects a lot of the agreements in the Climate Agreement to focus research and knowledge development as best as possible on future opportunities. As far as costs are concerned, I would argue that, in line with the recommendations of the General Court, we should understand when the SDE grants to be provided in 2020 will be paid out and what impact this will have on the financial scope within the SDE+ budget to provide subsidies in later years. From the outset, these grant flows will have to be transparently followable. I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u104	I hear Mr Harbers mention a number of things in relation to earning power and therefore also to the investment fund. Do I really understand Mr Harbers that he wants this cabinet to provide space for nuclear power and thorium in the letter of growth and the investment fund? Is that what he's saying here?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u105	Mr Van der Lee shoppers selectively. As far as we are concerned, a future investment fund is for those one-off investments that may not be profitable in the beginning, but which may later put the country at a great advantage. This may include a number of studies. Artificial intelligence has often been mentioned as an example. With a wink at the current discussion, I would say: look at what you can develop in low nitrogen emission methods. But I did not argue here that nuclear energy should be paid out of such a fund as well. I think there will be a huge need in the Netherlands to have nuclear power plants in the future, but the investment fund is for us what was announced on Princesday: investing in knowledge, in breakthrough technology for the next round. Thorium can certainly be part of that, especially if you see that leading researchers are also running around in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u106	I am glad to hear that for Mr Harbers nuclear power is not part of it either. At the same time, I would like to make the following point. The VVD always talks about nuclear energy and asks for a study whose results have long been known: it is extremely expensive, no commercial party wants it and construction in other countries has been delayed for many years. The VVD brings it up but is never prepared to draw a euro for it, so that just isn't coming. So let's tell the honest story about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u107	No. Sooner or later you will only have nuclear energy left, given the previous debate on biomass. In the case of nuclear energy, the question is how to ensure that the investment can be made here in the Netherlands. One of the things I am pleased to note is that in public opinion, for example, the tide for nuclear energy is really turning and that more and more Dutch people see that you also need this in the future. That is important, because it is one of the things that investors in a nuclear power plant can give certainty to enter into such a long-term commitment for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u108	At the same time, you can see that no company is reporting to develop nuclear energy here. I am also pleased that Mr Harbers says that he thinks there should be no place in such an investment fund to invest in nuclear energy. My question is this. I also hear Mr Harbers arguing that we should invest in good time. We have a minister who says he's hunting barrels. He's focused on 2030. It is very commendable that you want to reduce as many tonnes of CO as possible, but I ask Mr Harbers whether he shares my concern that there is not enough investment in the foundation of a low carbon economy that is needed in the period 2030 to 2050. Is there enough pre-sorting at that time?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u109	It's en-and. That's the beauty of it. It is November, and we have a climate agreement for five months now, so that direction, that course, is clear. This also brings out an incredible range of new initiatives. I think the best thing is that all these entrepreneurs are developing something that does not call at all on SDE subsidies or on the government. It's just said: we're going to develop this and we're going to see where we stand in a few years' time; at best, you're going to have to look somewhere in the rules to see if we're gonna get a chance. That's earning power, too. It's en-and-and. It's watching how you get from now to 2030 with your goal. It's watching you get from 2030 to 2050. Even the IPCC says Western industrialised countries like the Netherlands can't make it without nuclear power. You need to start that discussion right now. You can really do something about it for a year or so, but you have to see if you can actually realize it in the thirties. Eventually there lies the goal of 2050.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u110	When I look at the long term, I look much more at hydrogen-based...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u111	Also, too. You've just heard me praised for hydrogen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u112	Mr Moorlag has the floor. Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u113	... hydrogen-based economy and also transport modality such as hsl connections. My concern is next. If you look at the energy-intensive industry, you can see that it has investment and maintenance cycles of six, seven, eight or nine years. If you want to build an HSL line, you have a development time of ten to fifteen years. At the same time, we have a minister responsible for the economy, who has only focused on 2030. Shouldn't that tension be removed? Should there not be a much deeper agenda under the Climate Agreement for these long-term developments, in order to make our energy-intensive industry more sustainable and secure, but also to develop new transport modes, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u114	Here a contradiction is created that is not there. Mr Moorlag says that the Minister is only looking at 2030. That's just not true. There is a climate agreement with two objectives: one for 2030 and one for 2050. That road map is clear. It is also a good thing that you are not yet setting out exactly how to fill that out in the thirties and forties. You give researchers and the market a chance to come up with the best products that help to get to CO-poor. But the goal is crystal clear, and it's en-and: it's for now the tonne-hunting until 2030 and it's starting for 2050 now with what techniques and knowledge you've been doing the last bit over the last 20 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u115	You're prosecuting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u116	We're at the energy transition. This is a major operation that should lead us to a prosperous and comfortable society with clean energy in a few decades. That leads to a lot of puzzles, alignment and conversion. One of them is the power grid. There is an increasing risk that it will become overburdened in certain countries of the country. In the coming financial year, the direction should be considerably strengthened. I would also ask you to bear in mind the threat of disproportionate dominance on the part of network operators. A counterweight should be organised so that they cannot say too easily that electricity suppliers cannot be connected. Another puzzle is to clean up old oil and gas platforms in the North Sea, an operation where companies do a good job of organizing it more efficiently and cheaply through cooperation. Because the government pays for this via its share in EBN, it is also in our advantage to do so more efficiently. But then it also helps to have a transition plan in time for which infrastructure may still be needed in the future. Is that what the Secretary of State is trying to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u117	I took a moment to speak because Mr Harbers spoke about the rather unexpected but considerable network capacity problems and the direct impact that this has on renewable energy projects that have already been made available. I hear from the sector that there are 700 megawatts of projects that cannot be connected. They already have a decision, but they risk not getting the money because they are not connected. Does Mr Harbers agree with me that the Minister should extend these decisions in time?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u118	I would like to begin by asking how the Minister himself is looking at this, knowing that we, as a Chamber, are going to go much further into this next week. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, of course, network operators also have a connection obligation. I believe that renewable energy projects have taken a much larger flight than could have been expected a few years ago. So you haven't arranged the weighing of the net from one day to the next. At least you have to keep an eye on the position of consumers and, for example, you have to look carefully at what requirements you make on the network: how often can it fail or not? It is important to see whether there is not a disproportionate lack of scope for this type of project to be further integrated. That's just a suggestion: I'll wait and see what the Minister says about it before I make this all the way through. Perhaps there are ten other solutions which respond to the problem that Mr Van der Lee and I have both pointed out. Then a few words to finish. I'll dedicate it to Groningen. The improvement of the reinforcement operation and the acceleration of the settlement of claims require constant attention. It's gonna be like that for a long time. All this, in the light of a decision that was never thought of until recently, is something I would like to say here once again to the Minister, namely that within three years the extraction of gas in Groningen will almost end. For the sake of clarity, I will leave it at that, because next week we will have the opportunity to discuss this further in a general discussion for four hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u119	Thank you very much. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Van der Lee. Mr Van der Lee speaks on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u120	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "The Great Fight," the fascinating book that Jeroen Smit wrote about the passionate, often lonely, struggle of Unilever-CEO Paul Polman. A quest for the holy grail of long-term value creation. I hope both rulers have had time to read the book. It's really a case that we can learn a lot from. When Paul Polman became CEO during the 2008 financial crisis outbreak, he wanted to answer one central question: how does Unilever survive in a world that is very volatile, uncertain and complex? He then formulated a groundbreaking answer. Under his tight leadership, Unilever would double its turnover to 80 billion euros by making sustainable production and putting long-term value creation first. Against the scepticism of analysts, investors and many of his own colleagues, he broke with the focus on quarterly messages to realize the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan. It is both fascinating and disenchanting to read how the impact of Paul Polman's mission on the formulation of the SDGs, for example, has been confirmed by the UN, and how ever, it has been less and less successful in taking sustainable production steps in the hard financial reality as a company, especially in the absence of mandatory legislation and regulations. The outcome is known to you. In response to a hostile takeover attempt, Polman was forced to put the short-term shareholder interest first. He had to sell business parts, buy billions of his own shares and market them at one head office because of cost savings. And the latter he lost completely and not because of our successful opposition to abolishing the dividend tax, but because British investors and the vast majority of his own staff felt nothing for a forced move to what they used to call "Rotterdom" across the street. The big fight is a very appropriate title. It describes exactly what is going on all over the Netherlands. Our strong economy is colliding with harsh ecological boundaries. The judge and the Council of State are forcing a new administrative reality, which means that we cannot go beyond those borders. We are now in a great battle in society to secure sustainable long-term value creation, in order to pay for the rising costs of ageing, see the new medium-term review of the CPB. But we are failing to reduce the huge emissions of CO and nitrogen, so that we control climate change, improve public health and save biodiversity. The paper targets of the Climate Act and the Climate Agreement are clear and quite ambitious, but in the neoliberal reality real actions remain out. This cabinet fails when it comes to the Urgenda target of 25% reduction by 2020. Companies do not deliver the mandatory energy saving of 100 petajoules. The share of renewable energy is not rising sufficiently. The minister is a wad runner who sinks further into the blubber every step of the way, sucked into tough implementation issues because he chose the root over the stick for too long. It is therefore a gutter game that the Minister said he was relieved about the poor PBL figures. He must lead the way in this great fight and not give up. Where are the two policy packages closing the gaps of at least 5 and 9 megatons when it comes to respectively the Urgenda and Climate Agreement targets? Why doesn't the Minister take advantage of the new trend, the call for a reset of capitalism? It sounds louder and louder. And the fact that both ECB leader Christine Lagarde and IMF boss Kristalina Georgieva are promoting tackling climate change into a core activity is right and encouraging. The same applies to the Green New Deal announced by the new European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen. This Green Deal also fits in well with the absolute need for governments with more budgetary firepower to make firm investments. The IMF boss directly addressed this call to the Netherlands because of our super strong capital and loan position. Is this cabinet finally gonna follow up on this call? Above all, we need to invest more in long-term value creation. The Minister's announced letter of growth, with an investment fund, offers a new opportunity, but only if we make real choices. What lessons does this cabinet draw from Mariana Mazzucato's work and wants to operate as an entrepreneurial state, including the market interventions and the public investment that goes with it? Only if we put the biggest transitions first can we develop new earning models and secure prosperity and well-being sustainably for the future. This means more brainport and less mainport as far as GroenLinks is concerned. We need to focus our public investment on projects that take concrete steps in those major transitions, which reduce CO and nitrogen emissions, are well scalable and can also be sold in other countries. I see at least four core transitions, including, of course, the energy transition, the backbone on which all our activities rest and which must be sustainable and robust. Secondly, the modernisation of water management, the foundation of climate adaptation. Thirdly, the enormous urgency of the agricultural transition, where a necessary tilting in livestock farming can lead to many new, more plant-based alternatives. See also the success of The Vegetarian Butcher, who has been taken over by Unilever and is now also going to offer these citizens. Finally, I would like to mention the very extensive project to make our built environment both sustainable and mobile with non-fossil solutions. Through all these transitions, knowledge, innovation and new technologies play the role of catalyst. If we make the most of them and, above all, use them on the aforementioned transitions, we cannot make the Netherlands the fossil mainport but the sustainable brainport of Europe. Does the Minister want to work on that? Are the rulers prepared to focus their growth letter and investment fund on this? Will Minister Wiebes also inform Minister Hoekstra about this? With him, that quarter hasn't completely fallen. According to him, the investment fund is only intended for long-term economic growth and projects that can contribute to it. His assessment is that these will only be projects related to knowledge development, infrastructure and R&D. On the question of whether this means that productivity growth will increase the wide prosperity, Hoekstra's answer was telling, and I quote: "No, the text, every sentence in that piece, is there consciously as it says. What it doesn't say, it doesn't say either." Can the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate ensure that this fund will explicitly focus on sustainable long-term value creation? Do the leaders think that the investment agenda can consist not only of public funds or loans, but also of the savings surplus in companies? Are they prepared to impose a broader price for emissions in the economy, if necessary, and to tax companies that invest too little in sustainability? How do they see the relationship with the new Knowledge and Innovation Agreement? Doesn't this have too little focus? And isn't this all old money? In order to complete the necessary social and economic transitions in the Netherlands, create new added value and finance an ageing population, we will need both to strengthen labour productivity and to reduce the differences in employment rates between men and women. For example, 76% of women work part-time, while only 27% of men do. These percentages need to grow more towards each other. This means much better and cheaper childcare, equal pay for women and quotas for a maximum of men in top positions, but also room for men to work part-time and take care leave. Is that gonna be part of the growth letter, too? Since my input is about long-term value creation, I would like to dwell on the following questions and proposals. All parties involved in the so crucial energy transition are crying out for a national energy, transport and storage plan. The transport and storage of electrons, molecules and heat should be given a place as innovative and integral as possible in this plan, at the level of the main infrastructure as well as decentralised. I want the Minister to actively take control of this and work on it in cross-pollination with the RES's themselves. But it is not just about unlocking renewable generation on land and shaping the neighbourhood approach. It also affects other areas where renewable energy needs to be connected. Renewable on land is mainly located in places where there is little activity and electricity demand. There really is a mismatch there. I also think that the Minister should do more to ensure that the existing applications are genuinely linked to the electricity grid. I have already spoken to Mr Harbers about this. Does he want to think more out of the box at this point? In the regions, such as in Drenthe around Emmen and around Hoogeveen, does he perhaps want to make an electrolyser possible and facilitate it financially? According to GroenLinks, a large green hydrogen project is really a subject that affects all the boxes of the investment fund. Is he willing to bet heavily on that? When it comes to failing to meet the targets, the accelerated closure of coal plants is crucial. We also see in Europe that four out of five suffer losses. I have argued it before in the Coal Act, but also in order to achieve the Urgenda goal and from a nitrogen point of view it is necessary to close those coal plants more quickly. Is the Minister finally prepared to do so? This also saves a lot of biomass. On that point, I would argue that we should really introduce a moratorium. The Minister says he's reluctant to deal with this. He pointed out that only a few applications were still being submitted. Can he not promise that no biomass power plant decision will be granted until that new framework and cascading arrangements have been achieved? Furthermore, energy saving is a child that has been put at risk. 100 petajoules aren't made. I would like to call on the Minister to maintain the duty of the Environmental Management Act more firmly and to ensure that those savings are actually achieved. In addition, together with Mr Sienot, I would like to argue that we should use the roofs of companies for raising and also place them in the Environmental Management Act, with a payback period of seven years. I would also like to comment on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u121	Before you continue, there is a question from Mr Aartsen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u122	I have a question on that point about the Environmental Management Act. As I said in my speech, it is a noble goal to have all companies take action if they are economically profitable within five years. But does Mr Van der Lee agree with me that if a company cannot take this kind of action, because it has no money for it or it cannot arrange the financing, we should be a little more accommodating in it and perhaps we should help it? You were just talking about the stick and the carrot. Shouldn't we be working a little more with the root instead of the stick, which I hear Mr Van der Lee constantly pleading here?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u123	Thank you for this question, because it gives me the opportunity to reflect on the fact that the duty to save energy has existed for 25 years. Companies themselves have agreed with the previous govern ment, Mr Kamp, to achieve 100 petajoule. We see from calculations by the Plan Bureau for the Environment that in the most optimistic case we are only going to realize 80 petajoule, and 20 are not. 20 petajoule is twice the amount of windmills we have realized in recent years. It is a huge amount of energy that is not saved. I think it is now time to use the stick too, because it does not only help to stimulate. That's why I mentioned Unilever's case. Unilever-topman Polman didn't get it done because it wasn't a legal duty. If you do enter it, there is much more possible than Mr Aartsen thinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u124	You can handle the stick and beat as much as you like, with taxes and fines, but if a company doesn't have that money in its bank account, or knocks on a bank but it doesn't get funded, it won't work. If you're asking me if I can press 50 times here, I could get another 40, I could go crazy, but yeah...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u125	Don't be challenged!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u126	It wasn't an open invitation, Mr. Chairman. It wasn't an open invitation. But...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u127	We'd like to see that!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u128	... then you can say to that last 10, if I can't do it, "if you don't do the last 10, you have to do 100 right away, and if you don't, you have to do 200," but then there's no point. That's not gonna make any sense. When does GroenLinks come to the understanding that we need to help these companies, stimulate them, and start with that root instead of smashing them with a stick?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u129	This cabinet is beating itself up for the fact that the Netherlands has a super strong economy. We have the strongest economy in Europe right now. We are in the top four in the world in terms of competitiveness. We currently have the largest trade surplus in the world: 11.2%. This leads to a huge savings surplus for companies that do not invest it. It is not at all the case that companies do not have the money to make these investments. They don't spend the capital they have well, because we don't really maintain the legal pressure to achieve the savings they've promised several times in the past, but in practice we don't. It would adorn the VVD, which itself makes great commitments in the Climate Agreement but has forgotten to include its own supporters in it, to also be "a man a man" by carrying out what it itself wrote down in the government agreement, and to keep companies to obligations imposed by law, including by the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u130	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u131	I would also like to ask a question about an article in this morning's Dutch newspaper on the enormous delay in the extraction of geothermal energy. It is crucial to sustain heat demand, which is actually much greater than electricity demand. What is the Minister going to do to tackle that problem quickly? Finally, I would like to end with a compliment for the accelerated end of gas extraction in Slochteren. I also see progress in the handling of damages and am pleased that the investigation into the handling of the old cases that I initiated now seems to lead to additional compensation by the NAM. I would like to ask the Minister: should it not have been more generous and more generous? Unfortunately, we can see that the reinforcements are still going very slowly. We are going to talk about this in detail next week, but I would like to hear tomorrow how the Minister, together with his colleague from BZK, is going to achieve real acceleration. I hope that the rulers will learn the right lessons from the Unilevercase and are prepared not only to write down ambitions, but also to take the necessary steps to achieve them in practice, because the fight with which long-term value creation must be secured sustainably for our future is great. I hope you will be an ally with me in that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u132	Thank you very much. I would now like to give the floor to Mrs Agnes Mulder. Mrs Mulder speaks on behalf of the CDA Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u133	Mr President, thank you. The members of the CDA indicate that we need to be more side by side in our country and to work side by side with the Netherlands that we want to pass on to future generations. Our climate youth also make a clear appeal to us here in the Lower House: get us involved and let's get started. Thanks to the work of many, there is now a Climate Agreement. The CDA believes that it is time to start implementation; from beautiful plans to practice. In this practice, we will sometimes find that we need to be flexible, to use our healthy sense of farming and, where necessary, to adjust plans. The goal is fixed in the Climate Act, but with the way we should work together with our residents. Only then will we gain and maintain support for climate action and energy transition. Because a lot of people feel that something has to be done. Let's just activate that positive current. The CDA does not think it is wise to think that the imposition of measures will work from above. In this far-reaching change, we need to be aware of the other, and together, side by side, we need to look for solutions. Residents want to be involved in regional energy strategies. They also want jobs to remain. Especially with me in the region, the beautiful Drenthe, we know that we cannot live off nature alone. To achieve this, many local heroes are needed, in business, in municipalities and also at home. One of those heroes is Jan Deckers as far as I'm concerned. Dagblad De Limburger calls him an icon. I think that's more than right. He is an SME who invented breakthroughs for the central heating boiler in a garage in Geleen in the 1970s. Now his successor in the company is working on new hydrogen technology. The current director, Jan Janssen, says: gas is good, hydrogen is better. To continue on SMEs, the following. The CDA wants the Cabinet to make an extra effort to achieve the renewable energy target by 2020. We see that SMEs in investments in renewable energy are sometimes too small for the tablecloth and too large for the napkin, so existing arrangements are not always suitable. That is why today, together with the coalition partners, the CDA has tabled an amendment to make an investment scheme for SMEs in particular next year, so that they can get more solar panels on their roofs. We propose an additional 100 million for renewable energy for SMEs. Mr. Chairman. The CDA wants us to take on the greening of our industry quickly and take advantage of opportunities. We wonder how the Minister will support the plans for the greening of companies. Who controls the infrastructure, so that regional clusters can be stronger out of the energy transition, we can have a more sustainable climate and we can continue to finance with each other? We'd like to know how far the Minister's plans are for that. Other colleagues also brought this up today. As a CDA, we believe that a cluster approach to industry can help in this, as the ESC also advocates. The CDA has made a strong commitment to this in the Climate Agreement. Can the SDE++ funds be used to stimulate business, so that companies can make applications by 2020? If not, what options are there? 'Cause they're already paying. Mr. Chairman. The CDA sees a lot of potential in green gas and hydrogen. We are currently developing a new instrument of incentives for hydrogen, and we must do so, because the Climate Agreement has agreed that we are committed to this. However, I do not see anywhere where the companies that are already working will be able to use their hydrogen projects for the next year. What opportunities does the Minister see for investing in hydrogen projects next year? Mr. Chairman. When we talk about hydrogen, we'd like to get to green hydrogen as soon as possible. Our group then thinks directly of wind at sea. We are still getting legal treatment about this, but it would be nice if we could store the renewable energy of the mills at sea directly in our ports and use them whenever we wish. And yes, that requires a pre-investment of our society, but that probably also prevents us from needing electricity grids that we need to increase. The ports want to take the momentum together with the companies. This is what the CDA considers important for our employment. Mr. Chairman. The CDA would like the cabinet in the tenders for wind at sea to make a combination with the storage. Does the Minister agree with us?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u134	Before you proceed, first Mr. Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u135	I have a question for Mrs Mulder about green hydrogen. I have also made a plea myself to make that part of the investment fund growth letter. Does she agree with me that that is a better route than to finance it from the SDE? 'Cause it's gonna take you a while to realize that and save CO. If you fund it via the other route, you'll probably reach a number of goals faster, without preventing money from being spent on green hydrogen when implementing the Climate Agreement. 'Cause it's gonna take so much time before that's really gonna work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u136	As far as we are concerned, there are several routes open, but it is important that it happens now, because there is momentum. We heard Mr Birol last Thursday. I think Mr Van der Lee was there too. He is from the organization International Energy Agency in Paris and indicated in a technical briefing that they hear from all countries that they are willing to use hydrogen. Then I think: we can be at the forefront of development or we can be at the back of development, but then we no longer have a competitive advantage. I'd rather be out front with our country. I think that Mr Van der Lee of GroenLinks and the CDA can agree with each other. We need to see what's the most convenient route. This seemed like a handy route to me. Mr Van der Lee indicates another route. I won't say no to that in advance. I wonder what the Minister will say about that. Let's see how we can get out together. If we have to invest because otherwise we will have to increase our nets and that bill will also reach the inhabitants, we better make sure that we do so in a smart and future way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u137	I am looking in the direction of Mr Van der Lee. This will be your last question. No? Mrs. Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u138	I want to talk about another subject. I heard Mrs Mulder speak very nicely about support and that this is very important for climate policy. Last week, the news came out that 650,000 Dutch people are in energy poverty. This number is likely to double, and this is due, among other things, to climate policy. First of all, I would like to know from Mrs Mulder whether she also thinks that it is really scandalous that in a rich country like the Netherlands 650,000 people are unable or hardly able to pay their energy bills. What does she want to do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u139	That is why, in my view, measures have been taken for the tax rebate, namely to do this €100. That's gonna work eventually. I hope for the best. I hope Mrs Beckerman sees that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u140	I'm a little disappointed. I expected a little more answers. I think that tax discount is a little... If you look at the restaurant here, I always call that restaurant "The State grape," but that's not what it's called "Of course," then you can see that a cup of coffee costs €1,50. Suppose we raise that to €8 tomorrow and make it €5 again the day after tomorrow. Are you happy because it has become cheaper, or do you say: but that is still much more expensive than it was before? That is exactly what is happening with the energy bill. People are still going to pay more than in 2018. A lot of people have nothing to do with that reduction, because you're increasing the gas price. I think it's really skinny. I would like to ask Mrs Mulder again: do you really think this is enough? Don't you want to do much more?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u141	A few weeks ago, we had the figures for climate and energy exploration. It says that the new measures that have been taken will ultimately be more beneficial in 2030, especially for those who are less able to carry it. It also seems to me entirely justified to do so in this way, because otherwise you will find those who are relatively hardest hit, because they will of course spend a greater share of their income on energy. I understand what Mrs Beckerman is trying to say, but measures are being taken to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u142	Can I hear it right? Does Mrs Mulder say that by 2030 it will be beneficial? In addition, these transfers show that the lowest incomes will still pay relatively the most. The lowest incomes pay the most. I think we are discussing the budget today and we can do a lot today. The CDA itself frees up 100 million for SMEs, but why not also for those low incomes? There is €0 in the budget for the sustainability of social housing. We can make that energy bill even more equitable. We can ensure that people with a lower average income go ahead with climate policy. Why not, I would like to ask again, if 650,000 people are unable to pay the energy bill already?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u143	I believe that we have taken measures for this tax rebate. They're pretty sturdy. Mrs Beckerman pretends that she is not, but I find that a bit strange.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u144	Mrs Mulder mentioned support. I think she also said: people do not want rules to be imposed from above. My question is: how are the citizens involved in this terrible climate agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u145	Many parties have sat at the table, all of whom have spoken on behalf of locals. In addition, we ourselves have been working on this issue in the Chamber. The inhabitants were not in favour of the energy agreement. That has surprised all of us and irritated us, I can tell you. That's why there's been a special route. I can't make anything else out of it. It was also used by residents. They could get rid of the ideas at the ESC, no matter what they've done. That's also involved in the plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u146	Look at the decisions to remove all homes from the gas. What have the citizens had to say about this? The land is flooded with windmills and solar panels. What have the citizens had to say about this? Nothing at all. Because when the Climate Agreement was concluded, all kinds of green, hippie organisations were at the table, except for the citizens themselves. It is surprising that the citizens are now experiencing the consequences of this. See the rising energy bill. 650,000 people just can't afford it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u147	Your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u148	The conclusion is that the citizens are not involved at all, but they must pay big money for it now. People are literally in the cold. And then the cabinet promises €100 discount on the energy bill, while it has first been increased by more than €300. And then people should be happy...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u149	Your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u150	...when they're literally in the cold? So once again, the citizens are not asked anything at all. It's just being imposed on them. They have to pay for it. And that support, there isn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u151	This is a well-known argument that is always held by the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u152	However, acceptance of climate action requires the maintenance of public support. The energy bill is really a very sharp pebble in the shoe. I also know that in the course of dealing with the Tax Plan, the way in which the energy tax is now distributed has been poured into concrete. But my question to Mrs Mulder is whether she can still see some room to sharpen away some sharp edges. I am thinking, for example, of the users of the heat grids, who are also being stimulated by an increase in the energy tax to get rid of natural gas, even though they are already off natural gas. I am also thinking of the users of the heat grids who sometimes have inexplicably high energy bills. Are we going to organise a form of dispute resolution for this? For the tenants, we do the same for the Rent Committee. It must be a low-threshold dispute resolution so that their concerns, as well as their objections to the level of the energy bill, can be handled carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u153	I have devoted a whole paragraph to this later on in my speech. If the answer to the question is insufficient, I would like to come back to it. Then I hope the chairman will be supportive of this question by Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u154	We're about to. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u155	Mr. Chairman. Hydrogen. We want the Minister to link this to the tenders at sea and to make a combination with the storage. Does the Minister agree with us? Mr. Chairman. The CDA wants us to achieve our goals. This requires support. Not everyone's hooked up yet. That's what I'm worried about. At the same time, it can also offer opportunities. Work is currently under way on the Regional Energy Strategy and Heat Visions. Experience has shown that the windmills in Drenthe have really been mishandled. That's what's threatening to happen in Brabant, near Den Bosch. What have we learned from the wrong examples, and why should things be better now? Are strategies and visions being drawn up on what we need in terms of energy? And if it isn't, how are we going to accomplish that extra task? Are scenarios taken into account? Are they being tested by experts, and who exactly are talking to them? I think it is fair that we are already saying that we expect bandwidths to be taken into account. The regions must make a final offer in the long term. This must be approved by municipalities and provinces. But who has the ownership of that bid and the responsibility to gain acceptance for it? Mr. Chairman. So we have a lot of questions about how regional industrial clusters are going, for example in Zeeland, and how that is related to the further economy. I see a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u156	I hear Mrs Mulder talking about the RES, the Regional Energy Strategies, the 30 plans for the energy regions. My question to Mrs Mulder is actually the same as the one I just asked Mr Harbers. There are a lot of concerns about biomass. Does she also see the challenge of not allowing an exuberant use of biomass to take place in these plans, while at the same time establishing a stricter biomass framework?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u157	Yes, that is one of the reasons why I asked questions to the Minister together with colleagues Sienot and Dik-Faber. We would also like to hear from the Minister how he stands in this situation, because in the end we want our money to be spent in such a way that in a few years' time we will not regret what we are doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u158	Exactly. That's what my next question is about. We once paid a lot of money for dirty diesels. That didn't turn out to be such a good idea. We all want to prevent that from happening with biomass. What opportunities does Mrs Mulder see for investing as little as possible in this transition fuel and just as much as possible in the real envelope, such as insulation and solar panels? Could she reflect on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u159	I think we need everything. We just can't afford to say that we don't like that biomass, so we don't want to do anything about it. I think biomass can work fine, for example if it's waste from wood that you don't otherwise use and if it comes from a cycle close to where you burn it and therefore turn it into energy. Then I have no problem with that at all. I've been to Ede. The way they do it there, it's totally fine. It comes straight from the woods and warms the houses. I really don't have a problem with that. In recent years, we have considerably tightened up all the sustainability criteria. So it's not like we didn't do anything extra in the Netherlands. Especially if you compare it with the rest of Europe, we are at the forefront of additional measures in the field of biomass. So the story that we are not doing anything about it is, by definition, wrong, because I have been here for years talking about this subject. No, it's true. I think we should be honest with everyone that we will need that biomass very much...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u160	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u161	...to meet our targets for 2020 in the field of renewable energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u162	Your point is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u163	Well, I'm glad it's clear. Mr. Chairman. We should also be able to use local networks, the CDA believes. Is the Minister also willing to look at energy hubs, as in the province of Drenthe? And does the Minister also see this as a possible model for the rest of the Netherlands? Mr. Chairman. In order to create the right framework conditions and to stimulate new developments that are important for our entire society, the government must take charge of the infrastructure. The capacity of networks is a major problem and makes people cynical, because they seem to be unachievable. The Minister's working on it. Our question to the Minister is: are there any solutions that he can put forward at the moment? Mr. Chairman. The CDA considers that the call for large heat grids to freeze their tariffs has not been taken up sufficiently. In reply to the factual questions, the Minister also states that my adopted motion is not being implemented and that he does not intend to implement the amendment of the Heat Act until 1 January 2022. Why is this taking so much time, while we have been talking about this matter for years, I ask the Minister. I also ask whether it is possible for next year to temporarily freeze the rates pending the amendment of the law. Is it possible for the ACM to set tariffs lower than the gas reference and also to vary according to the size and lifetime of the heat grid? I hope that I have answered Mr Moorlag's question as well. The CDA stands for a healthy green energy mix to achieve the CO2 reduction target by 2050. We see a shine roller for hydrogen, including CCS and CCU. Let's take those opportunities and start investing now. That's how we build together the country we want to pass on. Finally, Mr President. With the reduction of gas extraction from the Groningen field to zero, a historic decision has been made. It is very important that this cabinet has taken this step, even though we are not there at the moment. Unfortunately, the settlement of damages remains a concern and the strengthening of housing is downright problematic. The reason for this is a lack of capacity. Is it possible for the government to send its own engineers, if they are present in the ministries or in fellow governments, to Groningen at a special rate? Are there really no other options, I ask the Minister. It is not only the strengthening of housing which was already known to be in need of strengthening that is not progressing; on the basis of the sample of the National Coordinator Groningen, it also seems that housing that is not on these lists of high-risk buildings should be strengthened. It could make you feel brave. We also welcome the fact that the NCG has taken the request of the Lower House seriously and has actually tested the principles on paper against the practice. This makes it clear that the reinforcement according to the municipal plans, tested by the State surveillance of the Mines, must now really get going and be controlled by us as well. We'd like to hear from the Minister how he's going to get that gear going. I can imagine that he might be doing so next week, but I think this is such an important subject that I wanted to include it in the budget on behalf of my club, the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u164	Thank you. I think there is another question from Mr Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u165	It's nice and good to hear that the CDA is optimistic about the transition. That's what my questions are about. For 2020, 2030 and 2050, with the knowledge we have now, we are not achieving the goals. That's a statement. The second observation is that in the world view of the CDA it is still true that economic growth brings more CO. The third observation and my first question is: does the CDA do with that economic growth and not achieving those goals................................................................................................................................................................... That's question one: aren't we at the same risk, the PAS dilemma?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u166	Mr Van Raan has established all sorts of things. I will leave that on Mr Van Raan's behalf. Those are his findings. I disagree. What we as CDA are looking for is actually going to take those steps with our residents. That's what the CDA wants. It would be even better if we could do so in an international context, because we are not only able to do so on our island of the Netherlands. Mr Van Raan knows that, too. That is why I fight for higher goals in Europe and to see if we can get Mrs Von der Leyen into those higher goals. That's what I'm committed to from the CDA. If we do that together, I'm sure we can make it, but wishful thinking hasn't built a house yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u167	The last question, Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u168	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I agree with what Mrs Mulder says on behalf of the CDA. Of course, this is not something Mr Van Raan says. You can leave it on my account, but I'm just quoting the PBL or the IPCC. It would be nice for Mrs Mulder to be aware of this. I'd like to ask her the following question. Is the CDA on the basis of that optimism, perhaps also from that collective that we are striving for and in the awareness that we are not yet there and that we are, as you might say, living on the puff, ready to let go of, for example, in the light of 2020 and the Urgenda objectives, the pinching four rules on the basis of which the Minister takes his measures? These are: cost-efficient, supportive, no leaks, and it should be in the Climate Agreement. To what extent is there room at the CDA to look at those conditions to see if we can accelerate?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u169	Really none, because this is wishful thinking at the top. You're not gonna get anything out of this. This is also: telling people something that's never gonna work. So I find this really incomprehensible from the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u170	Thank you. You were at the end of your speech. This means that I would like to give Mr Amhaouch the floor for his contribution, also on behalf of the CDA. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u171	Mr. Chairman. When I think of Mr. Aartsen and 40 push-ups, I have to go back 30 years in time. That's not what I'm doing to him right now. Mr. Chairman. Economic Affairs. Last Friday, the entrepreneur's day, a day to express appreciation for SME entrepreneurs, was quite right. I myself visited Van Tilburg Energy Design in Horst aan de Maas, a modern family business that designs, builds and manages sustainable and future-proof climate installations. Wonderful to see how much passion there is to contribute to our transition challenges with innovative solutions. Mr. Chairman. The CDA stands for a fair future economy, an economy that is competitive and sustainable, in which we make products with high added value and decent profit margins that flow back to innovation. This is the only way as a small country to maintain a lead over other large countries or emerging economies. The world doesn't stand still. For the CDA, it does not matter whether a company has 10, 500 or thousands of employees. Small SMEs are as valuable to us as world leaders as KLM, Shell, AkzoNobel or Philips. Thousands of families make their living in all these companies. In an honest economy they go hand in hand. In today's contribution, they both come back: SMEs in the region and the manufacturing industry. Mr. Chairman. As far as SMEs are concerned, the starting point for the CDA is that SMEs are the standard in the implementation of laws and regulations. An economic policy is regional policy as far as the CDA is concerned. The government's SME action plan must be implemented in the region, as close as possible to entrepreneurs. The regional development companies, the ROMs, have a major role to play in this. The ROMs know the regions and the companies and do a proven good job there. They're rooted there. As CDA, we want to strengthen the position of the ROMs, so that their services not only reach the frontrunners, but also the broad SMEs, the peloton in cycling terms. The aim is to enable more SMEs to work with, for example, robotisation, automation and digitalisation in order to increase labour productivity. As a CDA, together with D66, we are tabling an amendment to make additional resources available for this purpose. Mr. Chairman. Access to finance is essential for an entrepreneur to be able to undertake. We have an extensive financial instrument in the Netherlands. However, two thirds of SMEs do not know how to find these public offices according to the Financing Monitor 2018. Many SMEs lack the knowledge and experience to make good applications for funding. That's a matter of concern. We think it is important that we take steps to improve access to finance. I'd like a reflection from the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. Then the safety of SMEs, also important for a good business environment. Entrepreneurs also sigh under undermining crime or are the victims of fraudsters and crooks. Now there's the Fraud Help Desk. This will encourage entrepreneurs to start their own work on preventing crime. That is a good initiative, but next year EZK will cancel the annual contribution of 0.25 million. We are getting the signal that the funds committed in 2019 have not yet been paid out. Is that right? Is the Secretary of State prepared to work with JenV's colleague to find a workable solution to the Fraud Help Desk? Mr. Chairman. My Van den Berg College has been working hard for a long time to protect our vital sectors, such as telecommunications or companies with vital knowledge, which we do not want to fall into the wrong hands. Legislation is long overdue. Can the Minister and the Secretary of State indicate what we can expect from this government and what we can't and when?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u172	A question from Mr Öztürk. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u173	The CDA stood for family, the cornerstone of society. The CDA stood for family businesses, father to son, mother to daughter. The CDA stood for the farmers. And what do I hear from this CDA spokesperson? We also stand for Shell, which pays almost no tax. We are also faced with multinationals, which are supposed to be giving people jobs. The CDA no longer stands for the farmers. The CDA no longer stands for small SMEs. The CDA no longer stands for the family businesses.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u174	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u175	My question. Also this year, Mr Amhaouch asks the Secretary of State: can you give our entrepreneurs some more information so that they can do credit applications better? Last year we had a discussion together. You said to me: let the Secretary of State go to work for a year and we will see if these small entrepreneurs get money. I'm curious about the results.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u176	First of all, about the big companies. You could have expected this question, but I do not want to set up small businesses against large companies, nor do I want to set up a family business against multinationals. If things go wrong with multinationals, we have to name them. But we have to have this in mind. KLM has 33,000 employees. Shell has 84,000 employees. Akzo has 34,000 employees. Philips has 10,000 employees in the Netherlands. And so on and so on. For the employees who work there, we cannot create in this Chamber the climate that they are crooks, that they do not work in a decent company, or that they greenwash things, as we call them. If people don't act well, we should just talk to those people, whether they're in the top or somewhere else. But I want to stand up here for all the companies in the Netherlands that make bread come on the shelf. Then we come to a bit of funding. That's a big problem. Mr Öztürk did indeed mention this last time. We also ask the Secretary of State to arrange access for those two thirds who cannot find the counters. But there are also solutions. Qredits has recently been extended for the small entrepreneur. The Ministry has made funds available again for four or five years. And so on and so on. There are several possibilities. And one important thing for today, November 19, 2019. Actually, box-K should be giving pie today. I understand that the proposal on Invest-NL, which contains EUR 1.8 billion for economic development, was adopted today in the First Chamber. That's a compliment to this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u177	Mr Öztürk for a follow-up question. I would ask you to keep the questions brief and concise. The same goes for the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u178	Shell doesn't pay taxes or taxes. KLM gets all the support from this cabinet. It's going to buy shares. But what do the farmers get? What do the family businesses get? What does SMEs get? Nothing! Extra charges. That was my question. And two, again, the entrepreneurs would get even more information to find a window. They won't find the window. They don't get credit from the banks. You should be ashamed of the usury interest of Qredits: 8.7% for the small entrepreneur who asks for a loan of €30,000 or €40,000, while Shell gets 1% billions!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u179	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u180	Where's the CDA from back in the day that stood up for the farmers, stood up for the entrepreneur, stood up for family businesses?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u181	If there is one party that is still standing up for the farmers, there are more in the Chamber; I do not want to take the monopoly, it is our group, with Mr Geurts. But there are others who stand up for the farmers. Like I said, I don't want to take the monopoly. We know what is going on in the farming world, in the regions, in all these provinces. We have said that there will be no compulsory restructuring in the farming sector. We are in favour of these farmers being able to take action. There are also farmers who strengthen the ecosystems in the Netherlands. The food industry cooperates with farmers and exports internationally. Let me put it this way: I am proud that the Netherlands is the world's second exporter in the field of agrofood. We will always stand for those farmers to keep it up. The farmers can count on me. They can count on the CDA and our agricultural spokesmen, Mr Geurts and Mr von Martels.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u182	Your one-after-last question, Mr. Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u183	If the CDA, which is now in the cabinet, were to stand up for the farmers, the Limburg farmers would not have to drive their tractors to The Hague to defend their rights. Then the CDA Chamber members and Secretary of State and Ministers in the Cabinet would have arranged everything for them. Because the CDA could not arrange this, the farmers from Limburg, from Roermond, from Stein, from Maastricht, had to come to The Hague with their tractors. So stop it: we stand up for farmers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u184	Your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u185	My question. Business confidence has fallen from 10.6% to 6.6% under your cabinet. Beautiful stories about VDL and ASML, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u186	Your question!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u187	... entrepreneurs don't trust you. What have you done in recent years to restore the confidence of entrepreneurs?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u188	We always say that SMEs are the norm. I think we are also coming up with solutions. We have established legislation in recent years to ensure that SMEs get their invoices paid to the large business and the government on time, within 30 days instead of 120 days. We tell SMEs that the profit tax, the Vpb, is going down. We say to SMEs that the percentage at the Wbso is being corrected. SMEs are also innovative. So I can continue with a whole list until the celebration we are celebrating today: Invest-NL 1.8 billion! And of this too, SMEs in the Netherlands have said that the 1.8 billion must be released as soon as possible, so that we can invest in the Netherlands and also benefit the baker and the butcher. I am glad to hear that Mr Öztürk is also standing up for the farmers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u189	Mr Öztürk's last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u190	Then why does entrepreneurial confidence go from 25 to 9.6 and in the construction of 20.6 to 15.3 and in general from 10.6 to 6.6? Why? You have to ask yourself that question. Why can't this Secretary of State and the Minister arrange loans for the small businessman? Why have we been the worst lender in Europe for years? How can it be that the CDA doesn't stand up for the little entrepreneur who wants a credit and doesn't get it? How is that possible? Why has the CDA more or less sold its skin to the multinationals? Why?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u191	I'm glad the farmers have been here on the Malieveld. I am also glad that the construction workers have been here on the Malieveld to show us, also for us in the Chamber.... and we are with a wide selection in this Chamber... how important that is. I am also pleased that last week the cabinet took measures to detach the construction for all those contractors. There are a lot of family businesses and SMEs in this. I understand the construction companies are worried about that. You're right. Then they're gonna ask questions, too. What's the next move? That's what we're dealing with, in this room, too. The Council of State has made a statement and we are trying to find a solution to it as soon as possible, so that all these construction companies can start building.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u192	Thank you. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u193	Mr. Chairman. The SME test is there to get SME entrepreneurs to talk about new laws and rules at an early stage, so that we know their impact on SMEs at an early stage. There is also a motion by Mrs Yeşilgöz and Mr Heerma, Mr Segers, Mr Jetten and Mr Stoffer. This motion was therefore submitted by the CDA and invites the government to involve SMEs in the development of climate plans, to take into account the specific position of SMEs in the implementation of climate plans and to inform, together with SME organisations, how SMEs can effectively and efficiently implement the relevant elements of an agreement. The CDA is very curious about the implementation of this motion. Are the SME test and this motion, together, sufficient guarantees that a build-up of all these climate and sustainability rules is not going to kill entrepreneurs, but will therefore improve the competitiveness of the entrepreneur? Mr. Chairman. Another problem facing many SMEs is the lack of physical space for growth. Mr Geurts mentioned this in the recent debate on the problem of nitrogen. Industrial sites are filled with large logistics business halls. In some places, this leads to undesirable effects, such as the numbing of the landscape, the degradation of the quality of life and the displacement of other local SMEs. Such situations force us to make choices about this logistical numbness. Logistics that contributes to the manufacturing industry and provides a great added value for the regional ecosystem is fine for us. But on logistics that builds on thousands of hectares of agricultural land with little added value in a regional ecosystem and that puts a high pressure on our infrastructure, we can put the brakes on it. Does the Secretary of State agree with the CDA that we should make clear choices? Can I have a reflection on that? Mr. Chairman. Next is the internationalisation of SMEs, an advance on next week's External Trade budget. The international competitiveness of Dutch entrepreneurs must be strengthened in our view. Globalisation offers economic opportunities, but a level playing field and reciprocity are important preconditions. Now, via the platform economy, goods are being offered from countries far away. Because no import duties are levied and our high European standards are not being met, many platform companies manage to keep prices low. How do we prevent these players from competing away our own Dutch entrepreneurs? Then I have a question about trade missions. These are important for our business to bring in contracts. How are or are SMEs involved in the Dutch trade missions abroad? Mr. Chairman. We have around 280,000 SME family businesses in the Netherlands. Despite this impressive number, national but limited data are kept on family businesses, so we cannot follow their development properly and lack targeted policies. As far as the CDA is concerned, the unique nature of family businesses with often long-term objectives and great social commitment justifies us gathering more information about this type of business. How does the Secretary of State view the family business climate in the Netherlands? What are we doing right and where is it pinching? Mr. Chairman. The coalition agreement states that the cabinet is working to remove barriers experienced by people in border regions, for example with regard to infrastructure, social affairs and employment. What's the status of this? The CDA believes that a good cross-border infrastructure for people and goods should also be given a higher priority from an economic point of view and knowledge development. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. Then there is tourism, a sector where many SME entrepreneurs work. This sector is growing rapidly because the number of domestic and foreign tourists is also increasing rapidly. In order to reduce pressure on the well-known places and allow as many regions as possible to take advantage of the economic opportunities, the government has a distribution strategy that we embrace as CDA. We therefore support an amendment by the VVD to steer tourism flows with more and better data. We ourselves have a proposal to tempt tourists to come to the region. Mr. Chairman. Then industrial policy 2.0, the manufacturing industry in the Netherlands. Industry is a major sector in the Netherlands. In 2018, the sector included 64,000 companies that accounted for a small 800,000 employees' jobs. Over the past four years, industry's production has increased to 82 billion in 2018, but now the industrial sector is under pressure, as yesterday's Tata Steel coverage made painfully clear. The expectations for 2019 and 2020 are that production growth will decrease and job growth will remain limited as a result of the decreased growth of world trade and international uncertainties. Mr. Chairman. As a CDA, we want to kick off today for an orientation on our modern manufacturing industry policy. How are we going to shape the manufacturing industry policy for the future? France and Germany presented a manifesto for a European industrial policy earlier this year. The core: to prevent industries from leaving Europe by promoting the formation of European champions and to better protect European companies from foreign competition. How does the government view this manifesto and what is the Dutch strategy? In other words, how do we ensure that the manufacturing industry that traditionally characterizes the Netherlands remains in the Netherlands? The manufacturing industry provides employment at all levels, from the golden hands on the workplace to the good-looking headlines in the laboratories, which also benefits SMEs, such as the baker and the butcher. Soon we will still be a manufacturing country but focussed on high-quality, sustainable and knowledge-intensive products rather than just mass production and how do we ensure that? This in the first term, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u194	Thank you, but Mr Graus has another question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u195	I already mentioned it in my term and Jacoba Antonia Maria Joanna van den Berg, a colleague of Mr Amhaouch, has also tabled a motion on it: the false competition by the CBS. There are many more companies that are financed by the State which cause false competition compared to normal companies, the unfunded ones. Well, that's sad, of course. As has already been said, Mrs van den Berg has tabled a motion on this subject, which you were also enthusiastic about. That was for the protection of a Limburg company. We as PVV have also supported it. There's a director of the CDA in section K now. Next Thursday a discussion will take place with the Expertise Centre for Marketing, Research and Analysis, MOA, and the Association for Policy Research. These are very cool people from the business community who would like to have dinner with Mr Wiebes, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate, and Mrs Mona Keijzer, the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs and Climate. But they're not gonna get that chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u196	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u197	No, but this is an important point and you won't be bothered by any of my interruptions right now, but this is outrageous. I hope that Mr Amhaouch, in particular on behalf of Mrs Van den Berg, will also make sure that this meeting with the government on Thursday will take place so that those people can join the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u198	I'm not a handover, secretary or secretary of the minister or secretary of state. The question is, if you quote that question here. Entrepreneurs should be given the opportunity to do so. We have a lot of entrepreneurs to talk to, but I would like to leave the relevance to professional K.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u199	Mr. Graus, the interruptions add up. You know that, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u200	Yes. This is only my second.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u201	Added up, it's the seventh.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u202	I'll take a look at my colleague Kops. Anything else you want to ask me? No? Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u203	Go ahead, Mr. Graus. I see you're getting permission from Mr Kops.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u204	I'll swallow it. I'll do a little bilaterally, because we'll keep that interruption. Then we have two more reserves. Is that okay, Mr. Kops? Oh, yeah, yeah,
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u205	Good. Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Aartsen for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u206	I'm glad to hear the CDA was talking about innovation. It doesn't matter how big your business is; innovation is also very important for small businesses. I've been talking a lot to retailers in the last few weeks, with shopkeepers. They have it pretty spicy, especially when they're in a shopping street with a lot of empty space. They too must come; they too will have to innovate. Then they run into a problem. For example, they want to innovate through blurring. That is a difficult word, but that refers, for example, to the situation that you have a bookstore, that you have a book presentation in the evening and that you want to give a glass of wine. But the government won't let that happen. We would like to change that as a VVD. Can we expect the support of the CDA, and not just us, but also those entrepreneurs, if we table a legislative proposal to make blurring possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u207	I know that blurring is also being discussed in other areas and that it is also being discussed at the edges of the Prevention Agreement, to put it bluntly. The CDA is not in favour of adding points where alcohol can be obtained. A cozy evening in a bookstore with a book presentation can also be with non-alcoholic drinks. In this case, we agree with Mr Aartsen, but we are very reluctant to increase the number of outlets for alcohol in these cases; I think we are even opposed to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u208	I am not satisfied with this answer, because this is precisely the problem. Mr Amhaouch says: we are in favour of innovation. Now those shopkeepers are gonna innovate, but then the government gets in the way. I understand that in the context of prevention, the CDA says that people should be careful not to pour too much alcohol, but I have never owned myself at the barber shop and I don't think people who want a cozy party go to a bookstore. So when it comes to prevention, the CDA is completely wrong here. Whether the CDA says it stands for the entrepreneurs and that blurring should be made possible, or it should not say it is for innovation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u209	I can understand that Mr Aartsen is not in the barber's chair for very long and cannot be drunk there. I think that will be done very quickly. But the CDA dares to make choices. Within the framework of SMEs and the Prevention Agreement, we have had a huge number of e-mails, especially Mr Anne Kuik. How to deal with small shops, such as cigar shops and those selling cigarettes, is also difficult for us. They are also SMEs and they must also earn an income. And yet, as a CDA, we make the choice to cut it down and reduce it, in the context of the health of our children and other people. That's why we make that choice. On other points, SMEs across the Netherlands can find the CDA on their side.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u210	I liked the argument, but I'm missing a few elements. For example, I am missing something about the Market and Government Act, because a lot of entrepreneurs face competition from municipalities and other public authorities, sometimes also ministries, which are actually competing with traditional SMEs. That's what's bothering these entrepreneurs. There is hard work, by both cabinet and VVD and D66, on legislation to change that. How does the CDA feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u211	We also had this discussion with, for example, the Chamber of Commerce. The Chamber of Commerce has a legal obligation to provide information to people. At the same time, they need to enter the market in order to earn certain revenues. Then you're going to see what the general, public interest is and where the competition shouldn't go too far. The same applies to the CBS. That was Mr Graus' first-term point about data collection. There are also market players who can collect this information, but the CBS does. We therefore ask the Secretary of State to sit down with the market parties and the CBS. What is the general interest, what is so important that it has to be done by the CBS, and where can a market player have added value? Think, for example, of collecting telecom data.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u212	I think that this point will be taken further by my colleague Graus. I just want to take a little trip to another point, which I also missed a little bit. I know Mr Amhaouch as a man with an ASML past, as someone from the Eindhoven region, at least from Brabant, knows a lot about it and always stands first when it comes to innovation and innovation. I have hardly heard him talk about artificial intelligence and key technologies, about everything that has to do with future growth. I heard a lot about traditional manufacturing companies, but I didn't hear anything about future manufacturing companies, about the industry where we, as the Netherlands, will have to get the special, distinct competitive position in the coming years. What has prompted Mr Amhaouch to say so little about this? I'm just so curious about his view of that part. Could he go into that a little bit more?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u213	I have choices to make. I think that is a very important and right point. If you talk about the future economy, if you want to make high-quality products, with decent margins and with great added value, you can't avoid using key technologies. We also supported that in the coalition agreement. There's a map of photonics. Mr Verhoeven raised AI himself. We fully support that. We would like to work with D66 to firmly position the AI agenda. So that's part of the future industry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u214	Du bis mich unne sjoene, Mustafa, dao had veer ut sjus euver, het CBS. Mr President, I made it clear in my own language that I was talking about the CBS. There will be a meeting on Thursday. It's about that fake competition from the CBS. That's what my interruption was about a few minutes ago. I would like the Minister and the Secretary of State to sit down with the companies I mentioned, which are falsely competing with the CBS. You don't have to do that next Thursday. Without calling my esteemed colleague from Limburg a secretary, I don't want to say that, but I do know what it's like. When we were tolerating partners, we could also tap everything bilaterally. That's how it goes. And that's certainly how it works as a coalition partner. So just make sure those people come to the table with the Secretary of State and the Secretary of State. That's all I'm asking. And then those companies were helped. Then all have done a good deed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u215	Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u216	Then Mr Graus oach just needs normal kal proate, because then I woa z't euver höbs. Yeah? Okay. But I'm not kidding. When you talk about false competition in relation to the CBS, you take a biased position. I agree with you. We are indeed asking the Secretary of State to sit down with those parties, including the CBS. Look what that role of the CBS should be and see where the added value of those companies is. That is what we can support. But we are not going to say now, until the Secretary of State has spoken to parties at all, that it is all false competition. So there's a difference in nuance. I just heard on my left that it's the minister who needs to talk to parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u217	Thank you. We have just recorded that in the report. You were at the end of your speech. Thank you very much. I would now like to give Mrs Beckerman the floor. It speaks on behalf of the SP Group. I propose that Mr Futselaar be given the floor very briefly afterwards. He is not on the list of speakers, but he has asked and received permission to do so. Then I'd like to suspend for dinner break. I call Mrs Beckerman on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u218	Thank you. One and a half to two degrees. When I say that here, Mr President, people here probably think about the Paris Agreement and about climate change. That has been discussed a lot here and a great concern. But I meant something else: -1.5 to 2 ̊C; it was so cold last night. And we don't talk about that much here. Maybe we'll say cold in the coffee, huh? Maybe we have some concerns about our beautiful clothes getting wet. Many people are concerned about the expected rise in temperature due to climate change. Many people are concerned that bad climate policy is not achieving climate goals. But more and more people are also worried about the -1.5 to 2 ̊C it was last night. Energy poverty. More than 650,000 Dutch people are unable or barely able to pay their energy bill. One and a half to two degrees frost is an acute problem for them today. Sometimes it is literally the choice: cooking or stoking? I find that scandalous in a rich country like the Netherlands. Moreover, it is scandalous because it is the result of political choices. The energy bill has increased considerably in recent years by increasing taxes. In the name of climate policy, the taxation of gas will be increased. The idea is that that's an incentive to step off the gas, but most people can't do that right now. It really doesn't help the climate, but we are pushing people into poverty. After great social and political pressure, the cabinet made a promise to lower the energy bill next year, but the bill is still much higher than in 2018 and will continue to increase in the coming years. Some people will not notice the promised reduction next year either. As a result, 1.5 million Dutch people will live in energy poverty by 2030. Mr. Chairman. Growing energy poverty is a painful symbol of the failing climate policy that the Netherlands has. We don't meet the 1.5°C-2°C target and we conduct policies that make people poorer and make them very worried if it's now -1.5°C to 2°C. This symbolises something bigger: failing climate policy that represents more inequality. The latest accounting also shows the weather: we are not achieving the main climate targets, not the 2020 target, not the 2030 target. That's because we're trying to make it up to the wrong people. There will be two major debates this month, but it will not help to postpone it for us. Today, we can take major steps to address energy poverty and meet climate goals. Mr. Chairman. High-income people consume twice as much power, devoid of 50% more gas, drive 14 times as many kilometres and buy seven times more household products. But it is the low-income people who have to pay the highest bill from this cabinet. The most recent passing-through shows this: the lowest incomes are the ones that are the most declining. And why, the polluter pays? It's getting a lot shaky when we look at the distribution between companies and households. 80% of emissions come from companies, 10 large companies are responsible for 50% of these emissions, but the energy bill continues: the more you consume, the less you pay. Mr. Chairman. It is good that the government now wants to add a larger share of the storage bill to the companies, but it does not do so by really tackling the polluters, but by giving SMEs, schools and hospitals a significantly higher energy bill. That's not fair, is it? The first option to tackle energy poverty is to reduce the energy bill for people with a lower average income, for example by increasing the part you don't pay taxes on. Is the Minister prepared to do so? Is the Minister prepared to ensure a fair energy bill, in which people with low incomes, schools, hospitals and SMEs, but really large consumers bear the heavy burden? Mr. Chairman. We also stop energy poverty by isolating and improving bad homes. But for the sustainability of social housing, the cabinet will have exactly €0 available for the coming year; €0, nothing at all. The self-appointed greenest cabinet has concluded the scheme for the sustainability of social housing until at least 2021. Urgenda has made 40 proposals to the government to comply with the judge's ruling. It is not for nothing that the sustainability of social housing is one thing. One in three children in the Netherlands grows up in an unhealthy home. More and more rental houses have mold: in Haarlem 40% of the social rental homes, in the regions of Amsterdam, Noord-Friesland, Groningen, The Hague and Rotterdam more than 30%. The Minister for Living said it himself: if we make these poor social housing more sustainable, we'll hit two birds with one stone. People get a better home and we get climate goals. But why does the cabinet only have €0 available for it? The SP makes you a proposal. Now households are going to pay a third of the storage of renewable energy. The SP proposes to give them a third of the proceeds in structural terms and to invest this in the sustainability of housing. Begin the bad and moldy homes first. Then you book five times a profit: people get a better house, people get a lower energy bill, we get climate goals, the gas tap can close faster and we create jobs. You can't be against this, I'll ask the cabinet. To combat energy poverty, we need to give people more power over energy. When politics decided to turn energy into a market, a promise was a lower energy bill and more transparency. It didn't work out. Or does the Minister see this differently? The energy market has become a fighting market. Last year, two energy companies went bankrupt. Thousands of people were duped, often people who already had little money, because that was the target group that these two energy companies had. Over the last few months, it has been raining complaints about energy companies that put energy contracts on people with deception, and sometimes even completely illegal. You are lured with nice discounts and gifts, but a lot of people end up paying more and getting stuck. The cabinet is right to restrict the sale of energy contracts by telephone. Earlier, a motion from me was adopted to ensure that consumers are better protected. With the end of the telephone sale of energy contracts, more contracts will be sold at the door. In England this is already forbidden in many places. Is the Minister prepared to do the same in the Netherlands? Energy is an important provision for all of us. Market forces have not made this better, but worse. Partly as a result, energy poverty is increasing. Public energy companies are being set up on a large scale in the countries around us. Why not also in the Netherlands? The next year, 700 million will be allocated to biomass, and 11.4 billion in the coming years. It is quite unclear exactly how sustainable that is. It is quite a stark contrast: €0 for the sustainability of social rents, as much as 11.4 billion for biomass. I would like to ask the Minister: why not suspend the subsidy for biomass for next year? Invest those 700 million in collective solar panels on rooftops and choose people with low and medium income. Make it public business. This is how we combat energy poverty, give people control over their energy, achieve climate goals and create jobs. Why not? I'd like to ask the Cabinet. The polluter pays. It's supposed to be the lead, but it's not. As energy poverty increases, the real polluters still do not pay their fair share. We were really proud of the Beckerman c.s. motion. was adopted to ensure that industry pays for its own sustainability and that it is not passed on to households. But how is the cabinet really going to implement this motion? Mr. Chairman. Our conclusion is that current climate policy is failing. We're not achieving climate targets. Now the Minister is thinking about pulling some kind of trick. In order to achieve the climate goal, we are going to give money to countries that have achieved their goal. Our climate money goes abroad. We are afraid of a repeat of the nitrogen crisis. The government lets this go on for years, just as long as it really can't. Then we're gonna start moaning about judges and we're gonna have a little bit of a left-wing moan. The government pushes it out again, and then suddenly draconian measures have to be taken. Mr. Chairman. We're way too late. There's a lot we can do today. I have made several suggestions that are good for achieving climate goals, and which ensure that both people with lower average income are making progress and creating jobs with them. Mr President, then Groningen. Today it is 323 of the year of implementation promised by the Minister. What does the Minister himself think of these words afterwards? Does he still call this the year of execution? Or does he admit it was another empty promise? What's he gonna do about that? The Ombudsman said it strikingly: the government has become a machine. For millions of Dutch people, the government is not behind them, but against them. The Ombudsman pointed out how this machine not only crushed Groningers, but also, for example, the people who are deeply in debt due to errors in the Tax Office with the childcare allowance. A rake parallel. Wantedly and knowingly, people are distrusted and put up as frauds. If they don't turn out to be, they still have to fight for years. That machine still crushes Groningen every day. A lot of people do not notice anything about the promised year of implementation and it is completely unclear whether anything will change next year. Already 417 billion the state earned from gas extraction. Since the earthquake at Huizinge 49.5 billion. Now it is often pretended that Groningen has become a cost. But nothing could be further from the truth. If we look at next year's budget, we can see that five times more is still being earned from gas extraction than is spent on repairing damage, strengthening and all the other costs that are being incurred. Between the first and second term of this debate, another 3 million will be made from gas extraction. But how much is going to Groningen? How much is going to end up with the duped? That is also unclear in this budget. Yes, there are amounts reserved for the reinforcement of unsafe houses. But when, in the written round prior to this debate, we asked how many homes the Minister actually intends to strengthen in 2020, there was no answer. So let me ask you again: how many homes are you planning to strengthen by 2020? Where's the plan? When the minister started, he said that he felt that there was government failure of non-Dutch proportions in Groningen. Do you acknowledge that this is still going on? That the government failure of Groningen has become known proportions? By which I mean first of all the reinforcements. Immediately after the Minister's announcement that the gas tap would close much faster, in the spring of 2018, it was said that this would also make fewer houses unsafe. This would be demonstrated by a secret computer model of the NAM, the so-called HRA model. A kind of Lourdes van Groningen: as magic, houses were safe again. Although the region and we strongly oppose the pause of the reinforcement and the choice of a computer model of the NAM as the basis for the new reinforcement, the Minister continued to do so. Soon it appeared that the magical computer model with which homes could be declared safe was not working. Half of a two-under-one house turned out to be safe, the other half wasn't. But the Minister went on knowingly and knowingly. Now we're a year and a half away. Few unsafe homes have been reinforced. Research has been done by inspecting homes that come out of the magical computer model as safe. Turns out what? 127 of the 127 homes examined still appear to be unsafe. So we were right: the magical computer model of the NAM is not working. But what good are we if we don't get right? Those 127 homes had reinforcements a year and a half ago. These people are therefore waiting for a year and a half. Another year and a half lost. What do all those Groningers waiting in an unsafe house have to be right about? Can you imagine what that feels like? What's the Minister gonna do now? Is he quitting the HRA model right now? How is he going to make sure that unsafe homes are really safe as soon as possible? Then there's the damage settlement. There are still more claims coming in than there are being handled. Not all old damages from the period 2012 to 2017 have still been dealt with. People are still fighting with the arbitrator or judge or have taken their losses. When the damage settlement became public and 6,000 old damages were still open, the Minister decided that the NAM should handle them. On several occasions, we tabled a motion in this Chamber not to do so. After all, the NAM cannot do this. Groningen is right about this too. But again, what are we right about? Research carried out by this Chamber shows that two thirds of the people with old damages who accepted the bid did not receive enough money. On average, €9,000 had to be added. What do you mean, generous? Why did you let this happen, Minister? I thought you were gonna follow me to see if these people were gonna get justice. We must do justice to these people. Does the Minister agree? Last week, my SP colleague in the Provincial States of Groningen was promised that there would still be a compensation for these victims. That's a nice step we've had to fight for for two years. But is it enough? Is it going to be another window where the victims themselves have to come up with evidence? What influence will the NAM have in this? Why would that go well this time? These victims have been fighting for years and have not been given their rights unjustly. Why don't we take care of this as a government ourselves? For example, it is an option to provide a fixed compensation of €10,000. Furthermore, we can arrange for people to be able to submit their documents when more is needed. Today we decide how much money we're going to reserve next year for the injured. Today is the time to do justice to the wrongdoers who have been wronged for so many years. Finally. "The government has become a machine." I think that is really very striking words from the Ombudsman. And that machine was rolled over my Groningen. Over 10,000 Groningers are sick because of the way they handled them. The emotional damage has been compensated for by almost no one and that emotional damage is increasing every day. Mr. Chairman. It is high time for the promised parliamentary survey on gas extraction. I hope the Chamber agrees with that. Start now! But it is also high time to stop government failure. That can and must be done today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u219	Thank you very much. Then I give the floor to Mr Futselaar and Mr Futselaar also speaks on behalf of the SP Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u220	Mr President, I did not intend to speak, but I would like to say a few words about the situation at Tata Steel, as it became known last night and today. 1,650 jobs are at risk, and that is terrible news, potential for those workers, for families and for the region. It is all the more painful because Tata Steel in IJmuiden is basically a profitable company. This company has made a profit year after year, even in a period of a non-functioning European steel market. On the work floor, the story is that this is done deliberately to polish the company, so that Tata Steel could possibly be put up for sale on the international market and, for example, go to an investment company. This leads to two questions from my side of the cabinet. The first one's pretty practical. What are you doing right now to try to keep the jobs as much as possible? I understand that not everything can be said in public, but I am sure you can make a suggestion on that. My second question is more general. Is it not time to ensure that we can protect larger companies, which are economic pillars in the Netherlands, from the whims of the capital market and from outside investors who are no longer in any way connected with Dutch society? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u221	Thank you very much. Then I suggest we suspend for dinner break now. I'd say I'll see you back here at 7:45.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u222	We will continue with the budget of Economic Affairs and Climate. I am happy to give the floor to Mr Sienot. He is speaking on behalf of the D66 Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u223	Mr. Chairman. For a year, I've been a spokesman for climate and energy, and what kind of year. With the Climate Act, we established legally ambitious climate targets, and thanks to the Climate Agreement, we are taking a major step towards achieving the goals, together with other parties, from Shell to Nature & Environment. That is, of course, because it is urgently needed in the fight against dangerous heating of the earth. We simply cannot explain it to our children if we do nothing. We also live in a time when we can do something about it. The technique is moving fast. Worldwide, twenty solar panels are added every second. Every five seconds one is added to the Netherlands. We make cars that run on solar energy, we build neighborhoods that produce energy. Now we have to make sure that everyone can take advantage of these green opportunities. Because we understand very well that there are very realistic concerns among households and entrepreneurs. The previous speakers have already mentioned this. While we already feel the effects of climate change in our country, we often feel the effects of increasing energy bills just as much. It is also far from easy for everyone to heat your home comfortably, sustainably and affordably. D66 wants everyone to be able to make something of their life, including a greener life. If you run into a gray wall because it's expensive and difficult, we want to tear down that gray wall. We want it to be cheap and easy, because no one wants expensive and difficult. But if you make clean energy at home and at work easy and cheap, you'll really bring something. Mr. Chairman. First of all, I'm looking at heat grids. The plan is to have three times as many households connected to a heat grid in ten years' time, but then we have to make this more attractive than gas, otherwise you'll just come and take something. As we have now organized heat grids, a heat grid often leads to a chat between the municipality and the heat company and the consumer pays the bill. It's gotta be different soon. The consumer must be on one. That is why I ask the Minister: please come quickly with the Heat Act 2.0, in which we are finally done with this outdated link to the gas price and in which we are committed to clean heat with low temperature networks. Then we can use a lot more green heat sources, like surface water. And as long as consumers have to wait for a well-functioning heat bill, I would once again call on the Minister to freeze heat prices and see what can be done. Because the link with gas prices, on which a motion has already been discussed three times here in the House of Representatives, continues to cause consumers to see their bill increase unnecessarily. That's how you punish people who are already off the gas instead of rewarding them at a lower price. In particular, I am now calling for attention to be paid to those who receive heat from a collective WCO system, which stands for 'heat-cold storage'. They now have to settle for 12 degrees of water, while the Heat Act requires consumers to be able to count on water to take a shower. Can the Minister promise that he will wait for the new heat regime to come into effect until the judge has ruled on this case and the Court has debated the new scheme? Mr. Chairman. We also make it cheaper and easier for people when we bring down the energy bill by helping them isolate. But in practice, we are doing this very differently now. Large collective wood stoves are chosen. The heat supply is central to this, while individual heat demand often forms the final part in the built environment. These wood stoves then run on the much discussed transition fuel biomass. Like mushrooms, they shoot out of the ground. But as often with mushrooms: there's a smell on it. The plants emit much more CO, nitrogen and particulate matter than a gas plant. Now we can start a discussion about the short or long carbon cycle. Colleagues may ask me whether I choose gas or biomass, but I say: let us mainly bring our subsidies to really clean techniques and to insulation. After all, there is simply too little residual wood, branch waste, and the nitrogen emissions from central wood stoves are simply too large to continue with all those plans for wood burning.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u224	Have you completed this part of the subject?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u225	There's gonna be a few more pieces.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u226	Mr Van der Lee, your last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u227	Yes, thank you. In fact, I would like to put a question to Mr Sienot about biomass. He has recently made a number of firm statements about this. Now the Minister has written a letter and answered parliamentary questions indicating that he is reluctant to deal with them. He pointed out that in the rounds of the SDE only a limited number of decisions were taken and even limited applications were made, but I am not sure what that word means. Mr Sienot asked that no steps should be taken until something has happened in the case of heat. Does he agree with me to ask the Minister to introduce a moratorium on biomass decisions, so that no new decisions will be taken until we have discussed the new sustainability framework and the corresponding cascading arrangements here in the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u228	I think that is a very understandable question, but I have already understood that, of course, I have also informed you that this is not really possible. For me, it is important that we take the climate agreement as a starting point. That's a guide. It is important to me that we do not allow communities to take advantage of the subsidy pot and do not allow them to make plans for biomass plants which subsequently do not comply with the biomass framework. I therefore believe that the biomass framework should be clear and developed well before the delivery of regional energy strategies. I think it is important that now that nitrogen and particulate emissions are so clearly and rightly under a magnifying glass, we ensure that they are subject to very strict standards. And I think it is important that we call on municipalities to take particular account of the fact that biomass is only an appropriate last resort. 'Cause if we're gonna follow all these plans, there's too much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u229	Mr Sienot began his speech very nicely.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u230	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u231	He said everyone should be able to participate, the energy bill is too high for people who are now, for example, sitting on a heat grid. I was thinking: I can go along with the question of what you are going to do for the 365,000 people who are now in energy poverty, who are often unable to get rid of the gas themselves and who are also paying the high gas price.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u232	This cabinet is very much in favour of taking these concerns extremely seriously. Mrs Mulder of the CDA has also said that there will be this shift, that reduction of €100 in the energy bill in the next year. I think that's important to mention. I think it is important to mention that a lot of money goes into the built environment, precisely to take advantage of the opportunities offered by the ever cheaper solar panels and the ever cheaper insulation. The Climate Agreement has agreed that half a billion extra per year will go to the built environment. A large part is also for social tenants. In addition, Mrs Kajsa Ollongren, together with the Cabinet, recently arranged an extra 1 billion for the built environment, a large part of which is also intended for housing corporations to build new, energy-efficient housing for social tenants.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u233	That pot for the sustainability of social rent is empty for next year. You just pointed out that we are not at all sure about this biomass and that it is still under investigation. Then why wouldn't you say the following? It's very nice for people to hear, you know: half a billion here, half a billion there over the coming years. But people are now in energy poverty, can't pay their energy bills right now. Yes, that €100 is nice, but that's still a few hundred euros higher than two years ago. That doesn't help people. You have doubts about biomass, so why shouldn't you be now? It can free up money today to make sure that people who are now living in energy poverty, get a lower energy bill and a better home?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u234	That all sounds very good. The point is, it can't be done. The government also has agreements on its subsidy rules. You can't just deviate from that over and over again, no matter how much I'd like it to be. In the case of biomass, I agree with you. And I'd like to say something else. I also brought up heat grids. That is an important reason for this energy poverty. That has nothing to do with the Climate Agreement and climate policy. This has to do with the conditions we create as a government that enable companies to charge higher and higher prices. That's something I'm really up against. I have just said: freeze those heat prices. Stop it. Stop making that link with the gas price every time. There is much more to the problem of energy poverty.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u235	So, if I understand correctly, Mr Sienot does worry, but then he simply says: yes, he can't. What if you don't want to pay for that from that biomass pot? I'd hate to do that, but let's say it is. With your coalition partners, you're making up up to 100 million dollars for SMEs. Why not free up money for people in energy poverty? It's nice that you do that for people on the heat grid. Totally agree. Absolutely. Very nice, but why not also for the people who can't get rid of the gas at the moment, for example because they are in a rental house that gets a high energy bill partly because of your policy? You're releasing 100 million for SMEs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u236	Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u237	Why don't you do the same for the other people?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u238	I like doing things in the right order. We now find that there is a progressive understanding of biomass, which makes us all more critical. I think we should be very careful doing a gray out of that pot. On the basis of the research that the PBL is currently working on, based on the sustainable biomass framework, it is clear where to use biomass and where not, you can also talk about the plans that Mrs Beckerman is talking about. Because I totally agree: we need to take advantage of everything we can to help people who are now having trouble paying their energy bills, by letting them take advantage of clean energy at home that they can use cheaply and easily. I'm committed to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u239	The First Chamber has said by majority: make a pass on biomass; set a moratorium. On the other hand, the minister is hunting barrels. You can save tons of CO by generating sustainable energy. Biomass has become more controversial. You can also save tons of CO by effectively isolating homes. Wouldn't it be a good idea to make a good social cost-benefit analysis to see what the social CO yield is from a more intensive housing insulation programme, compared to biomass?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u240	I think that is a very understandable and justified thought. That is why I would like to call on the Minister to ensure, above all, that municipalities not only focus on biomass as a source, but also, above all, think about alternatives and are challenged to look for them. Because, in the end, every euro invested in insulation and cheap solar panels is, I have just said, profit, pure profit for the climate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u241	Good. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u242	Madam President. We also need the sustainable biomass, which has already been mentioned here, as a raw material in industry and as a biofuel for heavy transport. It is not for nothing that the Climate Agreement has agreed to establish a sustainable biomass framework. That's what we've been through. My question to the Minister is: how does the Minister prevent municipalities from using biomass on a massive scale in their energy plans, whereas these plans do not comply with the new biomass framework at all in the spring? Does the Minister agree with us that all the central wood-burning plants, including those up to 15 MW, need to be properly understood: with 14.9 MW you can provide about 12,000 households with heat, so that's a bit about heaters and heaters and quickly get emission standards? The nitrogen crisis is serious enough. Madam President. D66 not only wants everyone to benefit from green opportunities, but also that everyone can talk about the energy plans in their region. How does the Minister ensure this when drawing up regional energy strategies? Of course, this can be done with a classic walk-in evening where for- and opponents get together for a cup of coffee, but it works much better with forms of digital consultation, involving the silent majority. For example, TU Delft developed the so-called participatory value evaluation. That is a tool with which you really involve people and make sensible things to say in decision-making. Is the Minister prepared to discuss this model and other forms of digital consultation with the regions? Mr. Chairman. The growth of solar panels can and must be much harder. 90% of the company roofs are empty. No solar panel in sight. D66 therefore wants to help small and medium-sized enterprises with solar panels to have a lower energy bill. Salderen is not enough for them now and they're fishing behind the grid at the SDE. That is why I am very pleased that I, together with Mrs Agnes Mulder and the other coalition partners, can table an amendment to allow small entrepreneurs to take advantage of the power of the sun. I am very curious to hear a response from the Minister. In addition, I would like to ask the Minister: can we also include energy generation in the Environmental Management Act, Mr Van der Lee, in addition to energy saving? That was an agreement in the climate agreement. If we do, we can immediately see how, with a payback period of seven years, we can get a lot more solar panels on those rooftops. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the following subject: green hydrogen. From Greenpeace to Vattenfall, from Nouryon to TU Delft: they've all been calling the bell. Those aren't the least of the parties. In five years, the green hydrogen sector wants to scale up by a factor of 500, from 1 megawatt to 500. Without the support of the Empire, that won't work. The Netherlands can become the heart of Europe's green hydrogen region. But the parties are right to look at the Empire for a roadmap and sufficient resources. I would very much like to hear a response from the Minister to the call from the Hydrogen Coalition, signed by 27 organisations. Mr. Chairman. That brings me briefly to the subject of Groningen. It has been recalled before that this would be the year of damage recovery and reinforcement. Yes, steps have been taken forward, but I think we all agree that we are far from there. We can tell that in different keys, but it's just true. When will Groningers just get an answer to that simple question: when will something happen to my house? I would like to ask the Minister how he and BZK are going to streamline the cooperation between damage recovery and enhancement. A brief example. Now people sometimes receive damage recovery reports and advice when they already have a demolition-new building advice. Let's avoid duplication. Before I leave my colleague Kees Verhoeven............................................................................................................................................................................................ Oh, look. Kees Verhoeven is Mr. Big Data and I'm Mr. Data. Data centres are designated as heat sources in the Bosatlas of sustainability. They don't get that appreciation in the rules. Rest heat from data centers is simply not labeled green, so the residual heat is not green either. How is the Minister going to make sure we use this residual heat instead of blowing it up? Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u243	Thank you very much. Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Verhoeven, a.k.a. Mr Data, from his colleague. The floor is yours, Mr Verhoeven. You too speak on behalf of the D66 Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u244	Aligning in the coalition is important, but aligning in your own party how the announcement is made is also important. And my time is running, Mr. Chairman. After the sustainable contribution of my colleague Sienot, my input is mainly about digitisation and retailing. Digitisation and data fiction are among the greatest challenges of our time. I talk about that a lot. Hence my introduction. It's changed society. Above all, it has brought many improvements. It helps us to cure all kinds of diseases and facilitate communication. The Netherlands also benefits from it with a lot of fast-growing companies, such as Adyen, Elastic, The Next Web and Booking.com. So it's a positive thing. But the Internet was actually a bigger promise. It would open the world, connect humanity, divide prosperity better, strengthen democracies and make individuals more free. That was the original promise of the Internet. That promise didn't come true. Under the line, the influence of digitisation is still positive, but if we do not adjust, limit and slow down, the balance is going the wrong way. Everyone knows the many abuses we've been reading a lot about lately. These abuses are related to data hunger and data greed, privacy scandals and data leaks, abuse of market power, unfair competition and also manipulation of elections. But my input today is not about those abuses, no matter how important they are, because it is much more fundamental than that. My input is about power and the fact that digitisation and data create changing power relations. My input is about the changing power relationship between companies, governments and people, and the need for counterpower and a new balance of power. Because the growing power of tech-christians makes us less free. Technology not only connects, but also pushes people apart. She's also causing polarization. Social media companies have also become platforms of disinformation. In a free, democratic rule of law, power and counterpower are indispensable. Without control, power quickly degenerates into abuse and misconduct. It's not for nothing that we have a separation of powers. It is not for nothing that we consider the media so important to control democracy. And it's not for nothing that we have regulators to control tech companies. In recent years, power has shifted as a result of digitalisation. That is why we have today launched a pamphlet entitled Digital Revolution. I'd like to offer it to both regiments. It goes through the messenger, I think. Thank you. Of course, there is also a copy available for Members of Parliament. We just printed it so you can read it quietly. With the title Digital Revolution, we try to emphasise that there is a serious problem, namely the shift of power. During this budget debate, I will deal with the shift of power towards companies, and tomorrow I will also address the JenV budget on the power that governments have appropriated by controlling and monitoring more and more citizens. Mr. Chairman. Digitisation is of course driven by data, by data collections. We collect incredible amounts of data from people: name and address data, internet and search history, Facebook likes, medical data and location data. All that data is stored, linked and analyzed. That puts companies in a huge position of power. It gives them a dominant position in the field of data, as I said before, but also in the field of media. They also have media power. They decide what people see. And they also have huge market power, because they can simply eliminate competitors because they are more powerful, because they know more. These three forms of power, data power, media power and market power together represent a threat to our economy, a threat to our freedom and a threat to our democracy. I'll start with data power. We need to stop the data hunger. This can be done by better enforcing the European privacy law, for example through websites that have cookies without calling a no-button. Because according to the GDPR, you can't have a cookie hour without a no-button. You also need to have as a default setting that you don't share your data. This has not been settled in practice either. The GDPR is therefore not properly maintained. The Personal Data Authority should do so, but it does not have sufficient resources to do so. Does the Secretary of State see that problem? Secondly, the media force. Companies like Facebook simply say: we are a kind of neutral platform; we are innocent of all content found on our site. But of course they are not neutral pass-through shutters; they are powerful platforms that have a lot of influence. They must therefore be much more open and transparent about their algorithms. That must also be enforced, otherwise you will get all the news reports about low vaccination rates, Russian trolls and fake news factories. Tech companies will therefore need to be more transparent. Like other media companies, they should also set up an independent editorial board that makes decisions and is also clear about how the content is created on the platforms. They have to answer to society. Mr. Chairman. Finally, there is market power. In a few weeks' time, we will be discussing a D66 initiative paper in the Chamber. We have already argued in favour of adapting competition rules to ensure that mergers with emerging competitors, for example, as Facebook has done, can be banned. However, steps should also be taken, as is the case in the United States, in the area of mandatory data sharing, the taking of your data and the so-called interoperability, that other services can break into those powerful platforms and offer their own service there. Is the Secretary of State prepared to investigate interoperability? For, according to Elizabeth Warren, for example, in the United States, that is the way to reduce those big christmas. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. There are also a number of other points. I want to ask you about artificial intelligence. In fact, the Secretary of State has presented a splendid action plan, but it has promised funds which will only become clear afterwards or which it will decide in the near future how they will be achieved. I can't control that as a Member of Parliament. I can't control that and I can't see it. I would therefore like to ask the Secretary of State if she wishes to ensure that the House of Representatives is given much more insight into how these funds are made available for artificial intelligence, so that we can also check that as a Chamber. Another issue on innovation policy is the relationship between public and private investment. Usually they're fifty-fifty, about the same, but with the key technologies, you can see that there's been a crooked relationship. Private parties spend almost EUR 600 million and public parties only spend EUR 100 million, whereas these key technologies are just as important, as I said to Mr Amhaouch. Does the Secretary of State therefore want to try to release more public investment for key technologies? And then my final point, the retail trade. Mr Aartsen of the VVD has already spoken about this. Of course, retailing is not just a sector. Retailing is part of our society and makes shopping streets, village centers and inner cities more attractive. Retailers, which are classic companies, suffer from platforms, but also from high parking rates, shop crime, vacant position, rental problems, obstructive regulation, competitive governments and so on. Last week they sent a kind of fire letter to the House of Representatives in which they actually said: "Be a little careful with the retail trade." I think that is a very right call, because shops colour our streets, villages and cities. Entrepreneurs create jobs and experiences. Small and medium-sized enterprises are the heart of our society. Is the Secretary of State prepared to take targeted action in the retail sector, for example by setting up a retail task force? I heard that proposal coming along recently, and I thought that was a good thing. Mr President, one last question about the Song Festival. There are problems getting the money together. It is of course also very important for the Dutch promotion. It's a huge contribution to that. My request would therefore be whether the Secretary of State would like to see whether there are opportunities to do something from the tourism budget, the Dutch promotion, to cover the costs of the Song Festival. Mr President, so much for my contribution. I see I've used exactly eight minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u245	Yeah, it's good timing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u246	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u247	Thank you very much. A question from Mr Graus. Go ahead. This is your last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u248	I have a question about the parking rates, which Mr Verhoeven also mentioned. I have been proposing for years to do a test, the Secretary of State should do so in collaboration with the Association of Dutch Municipalities - to raise €1 per hour in inner cities for a while, so that everyone can pay it, including Jan with the hat. Because those people can't pay €30 or €40 in parking money in one day. You can't do that. They'll have to run their groceries with that. Would Mr Verhoeven support me in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u249	The history of the Chamber shows that I have always given a great deal of support to Mr Graus' plans in recent years. We have also built together in many areas, but I cannot simply say that I agree with this, because we are very much in favour of local democracy. Parking rates are set based on the local situation. Local situations can vary enormously. There are of course a lot of places in the Netherlands where you have to pay €0 to park and there are places in the Netherlands where you sometimes have to pay something like €7.50. I see someone nodding who, in my opinion, has to park for that amount because he lives there. So there is a huge variety of rates. That is actually an example that shows that you should not deal with these matters at national or European level, but really locally. As a PVV, you can campaign on that at local level.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u250	Mr Graus, you are already at your maximum number of interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u251	Certainly, Madam President, but Mr Verhoeven has just asked for a task force for retail. That's what he's asking the national government.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u252	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u253	This means that the drains in the inner cities and the parking charges must really be coordinated nationwide, because the municipalities are not able to do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u254	Your point is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u255	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u256	Very briefly, Mr President, because this is a bit in Mr Graus' time of injury in this debate. He's the only one who gets a ninth interruption, but I'm willing to give it to him, because I think this is a fair question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u257	This was half an interruption. Now half an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u258	This task force must be a national initiative, which, of course, looks at what needs to be done in relation to these coherent problems that are coming from all sides. But you shouldn't say that you're going to tackle all the problems at national level. But you have to try to coordinate nationally. That's what I meant.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u259	Actually, I don't know who was first. I think Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u260	I am pleased that Mr Verhoeven is addressing the problem of retailing, because I am pleased to see that this is a public interest at stake. It is about the viability of centres of cities and of regional shopping centres. We need a task force. I very much agree with that. But if you have that task force, that army, then...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u261	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u262	What kind of armament does that get? What kind of budget should be available? Should there be a follow-up to the Retail Agenda? How does Mr Verhoeven see that? How's he gonna materialize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u263	Look, that task force needs to do a few things as far as I'm concerned. They should first try to identify the major problems that are being dealt with at the same time in the retail sector. I have just mentioned a number of them, but there are others. The retail trade is facing a real challenge. She's very much loved. Everyone always complains when, for example, the bakery disappears from the neighborhood. Everyone will say: 'Shame the baker goes away!' But when you ask how many times someone has been there lately, the answer is that they often went to the supermarket just as quickly. The retail sector has to do with higher parking rates, poor accessibility, shop crime, rental right, real estate owners who are tightening up their belts and unfair competition by governments and tech platforms. So it's an inventory issue. As far as I am concerned, the task force should start by trying to identify what the retail sector is doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u264	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u265	And, Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u266	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u267	Yes, because that was only the first part of my answer. In addition, we need to look at what you are going to do financially and in the area of regulation in order to get some room in that sector. That's really a question for the Secretary of State, so I'm directing your question to the Secretary of State. But I fully agree with Mr Moorlag: it is a public sector, it is not an industry. It's part of our society.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u268	You'd already reported that. A question from Mr Amhaouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u269	Mr Verhoeven quite rightly appoints the retail, the shopkeepers, the SMEs in the streets. Does Mr Verhoeven know that the previous Minister for Economic Affairs, Mr Kamp, had set up a Retail Agenda and that he had concluded a Retail Deal with 31 municipalities?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u270	Sure. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u271	Does Mr Verhoeven therefore agree that we need to evaluate it before a new task force is set up? I would like to see what came out of it before we set up a new task force. We've made plans. What went well and what could be better? Does Mr Verhoeven agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u272	I think that's a little cautious. I think it is good in itself to evaluate the Retail Agenda, but I also think there are a number of problems that you should see, because they cause the water to run out of the retail sector. I don't know if you got them in your mailbox, but I really got a lot of angry e-mails from retailers, when I never get so many angry e-mails from people. They say that the water is on their lips: until here and no further; we can no longer; save the retail; stop the balding. And I can go on like this for a while. It was really an incredibly firm call. I think you should be careful when you say as a Member of Parliament, let's start evaluating and see what we're gonna do in two years' time. There are already a number of companies on the bottle. So I really want to en-and. Evaluating is fine. There's nothing wrong with evaluation. We can do that. But in the meantime, I'd like to tell the Secretary of State. This task force can then continue a number of ongoing actions from the Retail Agenda, as some of them are simply proven to be successful. A number of things must also be added. It has to be done at the same time and not at the same time, because then companies just break down.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u273	Mr Verhoeven confirms my great concern. In 2016 or 2017, Minister Kamp said that we would start a Retail Agenda and solve the problems. But now we're back here two years later and apparently the problems haven't been solved. I agree with you that we do not have to wait long with this task force, but let us do the evaluation very quickly and then start the task force before we create false expectations at retail. The retail is a bit done creating expectations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u274	I never like to create false expectations. Mr Aartsen has just made a point of it, and I am doing so. Mr Graus is also in favour of a task force. You, too, say we should do a task force. Mr Moorlag says that we must do a task force. The Secretary of State was just nodding that there should be a task force. So there's just gonna be a task force. I think we've all said that almost Chamberwide today. That's good. Then we will look at a sensible design, the evaluation of existing policies and what new actions are needed. But I think today we can just say that there will be a task force to try to push the retail trade in the back. That's not generating false expectations. This task force is not going to save all the shopkeepers, but it can make sure that a number of long-term problems are broken loose. That would be a nice return today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u275	Thank you. You were at the end of your speech. This means that I am happy to give the floor to Mr Moorlag for his contribution. Mr Moorlag speaks on behalf of the Labour Party. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u276	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I want to start with the imminent job loss at Tata Steel. There is a real threat of a massive discharge. I think that the Minister should really use all his influence to maintain employment for that company. This is not just a conservative approach to employment. If there's one steel company in Europe that's capable of really making it more sustainable, we had the HIsarna project there, then it's Tata Steel. I think we should do everything we can to make this industry a leap towards a more sustainable business. This is of great social importance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u277	I like the fact that this plea is being made. I like to hear that the PvdA is passionate. That's how I know the PvdA. Isn't it also a component that this is one of the companies taken over by an external party, a foreign party? Isn't that our fear at the KLM, too? And so we can list a number of organisations. Should we not look at that too, or should these ministers not look at it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u278	I don't know if you can make a causal connection. For example, let's look at the V&D group in the Netherlands. In fact, V&D has unfortunately fallen on a national scale. There were also foreign investors behind this, but I don't know if you have a better starting position by definition if you have everything in national hands. For these workers, it is very unsatisfactory that they feel that they are being ruled over and over in a very far-distant boardroom. This does strengthen the feeling that companies, including corporate governance, are loosely sung and do not have the Philips feeling, which the VVD group spoke about earlier today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u279	Is this not a misconception of one of the problems and of one of the concerns that many workers are struggling with? They say: we are taken over by a foreign company and what is the guarantee for the future? Are we sure that company doesn't think: we're moving the whole trade to India, because there it's cheaper? The question is whether the Netherlands should not put a policy on that too. How do we ensure employment here in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u280	I think that we in the Netherlands should primarily create the conditions for establishment so that we can maintain this type of activity. This type of business, energy-intensive companies, we need to be able to make a leap towards sustainable business operations. The products simply remain in demand, so it is better to produce them in a sustainable way in this country. Hoogovens................................................................................................................................................................................. I think there is now a double interest involved. On the one hand, it is a question of maintaining employment and, on the other hand, it was a starting point for achieving sustainability. We should just cherish and preserve that for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u281	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u282	We must help the old economy to become more sustainable. There is also a new economy that is much more driven by the Internet. Mr Verhoeven spoke about this. But how sustainable is this economy? I am referring to one part of the platform economy, namely the part that delivers goods to the home. That's easy as hell. I'll do it myself. It's a quick search on your phone, select, click and pay, and the next day the delivery guy's at the door. That's very comfortable. But there's also a downside to it. I spent a day on the road earlier this year with a delivery guy: delivering 160 packages in one eight-hour shift. And then you think, "Hm, that's 20 packs an hour and one package every three minutes." Actually, it's even more, because the delivery guy's been packing his car for two hours alone. Mr. Chairman. More and more vans are tearing through the neighborhoods and streets. This is accompanied by emissions, with emissions. This is accompanied by a threat to road safety. And how often do we not experience that we get a very large package at home that contains only a very small part that you ordered? Stuff isn't just double-packed, but often triple-packed. What does that mean about raw materials consumption? What does that mean about environmental pollution? I'm not even talking about the return flow. Really great stuff, but it takes too much effort to repack them, check them or offer them for sale again. That stuff just goes into the dumpster unused. How sustainable is this new economy? How sustainable is it in social terms? The delivery guy just works way too hard. The person I was on the road with was in good shape. He said he was very fit and lost weight. But he also talked about colleagues who carry bags of dog food and cat grit to four-hulls. That's just really heavy stuff. It's top-notch sports. Those people can't do that. Higher up in the supply chain, you can see that it's also wrong. Recently a book has been published by a reporter of the Volkskrant. He worked undercover for several weeks in a distribution center of Bol.com. You just have to find that working conditions and working conditions are not good there. I also spoke to the boss of that delivery guy, who works as a subcontractor for PostNL. He said that he suffers incredibly much from competitors who take a walk with the conditions of employment and do not apply a collective agreement. He is therefore experiencing unfair competition. He also said: "PostNL is the boss of the data. My delivery guys collect all that data, but I don't have access to it myself." Mr Verhoeven spoke of power and counterpower. Well, even here, power just isn't properly distributed. The PvdA Group considers this to be a market failure. You say it's bad, but as bad as it is here, you don't have to. That ease of delivery has a really uncomfortable downside. My question to the Secretary of State is whether she would like to do an exploration, an investigation, and take steps to achieve a better organization of the market that would reduce all those excesses. Consultation with the social partners on how to achieve better organisation, including in the context of working conditions. The Secretary of State has not hesitated in the past to finger a postal company like Sandd. I am not concerned about the fact that companies are being tapped on their fingers, but I am concerned about the need for a level playing field on working conditions. In case of market failure, there is a need for a market master or market masteress, whoever is hired for it. I understand that the Secretary of State is very busy, but one might think of a phenomenon such as the Oudeman Committee, which is going to do a good job of peeling off this whole issue. In my opinion, there is a much better balance to be struck between social justice and economic efficiency on the one hand. It is also a question of improving the ecological balance. A new balance must be sought here. Will the Secretary of State undertake to do so? Does she really want to go to a more Rhineland-Palatinate business?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u283	Does the PvdA Group take into account that you can also look at very different concepts in the area of mobility? I was on a job visit with Drentea. They will see if they can develop cabinets that you can just place at companies, if necessary with cooling systems in them, so that you can deliver everything to the company already. This also saves a lot of transport flows. I know they're also looking here in South Holland to see if you can put that kind of system at certain bus stops, so you can reduce all those extra CO emissions. Does the PvdA ask the Secretary of State? Otherwise, you look at this issue very unilaterally, in my opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u284	That is my intention very strongly. I have also referred in my contribution to road safety and emissions from all these transport movements. You might be able to create another distribution system that is more optimal, where each company has its own distribution system, maybe a different arrangement can be made for the burden mile, municipalities also have control over whether concession models are used. I have all the ideas about it, but as a politician, you can't operate too instrumental. But if the Secretary of State calls in someone, I'd be happy to provide input. Perhaps we could also organise a round table on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u285	Yeah, I can feel another one coming. We often do that together, but my question is whether the PvdA also wants to leave room for the market to just develop things for itself. Otherwise it becomes another "government lays on that" and then you get everything regulated from above. Personally, I'm not really waiting for that. I don't want us to eject too much either. In that balance, does the PvdA want to think along?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u286	Yeah, sure. I'm definitely not in a line reflex here either. So, as far as I am concerned, this is also going to be a co-creative process, in which we are also talking to business. Let's face it, business is also in the middle of the door. Return flows are also a huge burden for those companies. You have to compete with each other. Then: now ordered, deliver the next day. This generates an incredible amount of night work, but also peaks and falls in business operations. I would very much like an approach to be adopted, in which there is a strong dialogue with the companies, but also with the workers' organisations, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u287	Now a bit is being pretended to happen to the consumer, but of course the consumer is also actively contributing to it. I've always learned not to buy what you're being offered elsewhere. Of course, that also helps to maintain those stores. It's okay to tell ourselves that mirror.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u288	I agree. We may be able to point our finger at the individual, but I think it is better to systematically redesign it. This economy exists, but it needs to be better regulated to my liking, also in order to balance the level playing field with the regular retail sector better.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u289	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u290	Tourism has already been mentioned a number of times. Tourism generates twice as much employment as agriculture. For agriculture, we have a complete ministry. By the way, how many FTEs are involved in the tourism policy area within the Ministry? The Environment and Infrastructure Council has delivered an extremely interesting opinion. The Council has indicated that there is a very good legitimacy, a very good title to develop policies and a vision at a rich level, and to provide resources for the great challenge facing tourism. Too much tourist pressure in one place and too little spread to the other attractive places in the Netherlands. Is the Secretary of State prepared to take over the core of that opinion? Is it also prepared to facilitate innovatively a number of pilot projects to spread this tourism pressure? Then there are two places in direct view. The first is Amsterdam and the other is Giethoorn, which has a tourist stream that is relatively larger than that in Amsterdam. We come to talk a lot about Groningen. My colleague, Mr Nijboer, will then speak on natural gas. Gas extraction is reduced and reduced, but the question is whether confidence is growing. It is painful, however, that confidence does not grow, simply because the resolution of damage is still not going well. If you report damage, you get a letter back that you have to wait at least 15 months or that the chance is real. The reinforcement operation is really a long, painful trip on the bare knees over the coconut mat. If it was the Minister's trip over that coconut mat, you could say: that's the risk of the trade. But unfortunately, it's the Groningen for whom it's a painful operation. We are going to talk about it in debates, but my question to the Minister is: how is he going to restore the broken trust? How's he gonna erase that shame stain in Groningen? I come to my conclusion: the Climate Agreement. The climate agreement is there, but I do note that the climate agreement has some rough edges. What about the commitment of all the parties that have participated? Did they commit to the agreement? I know that there are organisations that consult their supporters on this. How can we be sure that the parties that have participated not only make agreements, but also act according to the "amen" principle? "Amen" is then the abbreviation of: making and fulfilling agreements. That needs to be better secured. I also have concerns about the RES's. They are very based on consensus. What will happen if there is no regional consensus? What will happen if an energy mix comes out that is 100% solar? We know that solar panels don't pay much these months. So is there a good energy mix out of that? The heat grids are also such a painful pebble in the shoe. I'm looking at the clock with an oblique eye. Let me ask the question a little... My point has been that a transition like this will only succeed if people experience it as an improvement and a progress. If there is another image on it and on parts it is so: the energy poverty, the problems with the heat grids and much more.And if the energy transition is perceived as a deterioration or threat, we have all the ingredients for a runner. What is the Minister's trusted approach to preventing it from being polite and promoting it as an improvement and progress? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u291	Thank you very much. I see that Mr Sienot has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u292	I promised I'd keep it short. I heard Mr Moorlag speak earlier about some sort of dispute committee on heat grids. We share those concerns. That's what I just said. So I am very curious about this dispute committee: what does it mean and what should it look like in your opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u293	I did suggest that in the hallway. I think we need to look closely at an easily accessible dispute settlement. I understand that there is already a form of dispute resolution, but let me use Mr Sienot's interruption to ask the Minister how effective this dispute resolution is. Because the experience of users of heat grids is that, from the point of view of power and counterpower, they have an unpowerful position vis-à-vis their heat supplier.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u294	Thank you. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Bruins, and Mr Bruins speaks on behalf of the Christian Union Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u295	Mr. Chairman. What is a good economy, what is a good market? That is at least one that is not just about gross national product, always more, which is not based on maximum exploitation of people or exhaustion of creation. A good economy contributes to the thriving of creation and to the development of people. Growth is a means, or even better: it is a fruit of creativity, inspiration and hard work. But growth is never an end in itself. What about the government? As Mr Moorlag said, a good market needs a market master, a strict market master. That market master offers space and creates frameworks for this market. Economy is never value-free. She is deeply concerned with your vision of society and your vision of the good life. It is from this point of view on the economy and government that the Christian Union has enthusiastically taken note of the government's intention to create a growth agenda for the future of our country. It is important to ensure that our economy and market will also contribute to the prosperity of our country in the 21st century. Over the past 75 years, we have become an exceptionally stable and prosperous corner of the world. This is to be thankful for a little while, and after that also to continue unspoiled with ora et labora. Mr. Chairman. As far as my group is concerned, the agreements on knowledge and innovation are a good example of how this country is strong through cooperation at the interface between government and industry. The collaboration between public knowledge institutions and business has been very intensive in the Netherlands for decades, especially in physics, chemistry and technology. However, this requires that public authorities continue to invest in science relevant to economic growth. Mr Verhoeven has already mentioned that there are concerns about the extent to which we invest in key technologies in the public domain. This is very little compared to the amount of high-tech business life in the Netherlands. What's the Minister gonna do about this? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to emphasise the importance of entrepreneurs, particularly social entrepreneurs. These are people whose hearts are beating to tackle societal challenges through entrepreneurship, with an eye for their staff and their ideals. It's the plasterer who teaches young people a craft. It's the restaurant owner who works with food that would otherwise be thrown away. It's the app developer who helps people with debt to regain control over their spending. It is this kind of enterprise that I had on the retina when I wrote last year's initiative paper "Entrepreneurship with a social mission." I look forward to seeing the Secretary of State in a little less than two weeks' time. Mr. Chairman. I'd like to draw attention to family businesses. Mr Aartsen also mentioned this issue. By definition, they are long-term focus companies. They have an eye for the employees, they are a community within themselves, a community in which the company is rooted. Family businesses often fall between shore and ship in policy and regulation. By definition, they are not always small and medium-sized enterprises, but they are not necessarily a listed multinational. As a result, the government often has no interest in them, while family businesses provide half of the employment in the Netherlands and half of the gross national product. I am therefore asking whether it is possible to define, recognise, frame family businesses, so that they become visible in the government statements, as SMEs are always listed as a separate category now. Speaking of SMEs, can the Secretary of State provide an overview of progress on the measures in the government agreement aimed at SMEs? Can it indicate how it works for larger family businesses? And how would the SME test, as announced, work out for family businesses? Mr. Chairman. If an entrepreneur attaches to the whole healthy principle of resting one day a week, then this entrepreneur must also know the government by his side. Retailers are also entitled to rest. In that context, I expressed concerns about the forced relocation of shopkeepers to a shopping mall in Dordrecht. Does existing and announced regulations adequately protect them in the event of forced relocation? Can the Secretary of State guarantee that shopkeepers who are forced to move within the same mall will retain the right not to open their shop on Sundays if they do not want to? Mr. Chairman. I'd like to dedicate a few words to craftsmanship. This is crucial for growth and prosperity in our country. We have a great deal of common form, so-called highly educated people in our country. But who's gonna be able to make stuff, fix it, maintain it? How do we keep this country running? Professionals, Mr. Chairman. That is why I have taken my action plan on craftsmanship, which I presented earlier in the discussion of the OCW budget, into account in this budget debate. I have copies for the rulers, which are very well bound up, and for the colleagues in the Chamber, the last with a staple. There must be a difference! I would like to mention two points in this action plan. First of all, learning through should not mean that you can only continue learning for manager or policy officer. Learning is also specialization, mastery, becoming the very best in your profession, making a career by exceling in practical skills. For this purpose, I propose, together with the colleague of the CDA, a master's programme, a master's programme at mbo-5-level at vocational schools in this country. Secondly, there must be as many learning rights for everyone, even after your initial training, during your career, to train, to school or to teach as a side-intromer in the specialization in which you have gained work experience as a professional or professional. The latter requires an extension of the Wbso, so that, in addition to technical research and development, technical education given by industry professionals can be promoted by tax. I call it "WBTO." Do I understand correctly that the Secretary of State is now coming forward with a response to this point? Mr. Chairman. All that craftsmanship and all that technology are based on one thing: calibration, calibration. How do you know your scale, your voltmeter, your thermometer is accurate? They're calibrated. This is done at calibration institutes, which in turn have their standards calibrated by our national metrology institute, the Van Swinden Laboratory in Delft. This VSL, including all its unique measurement infrastructure, has recently been sold to a commercial investor. How can that be, I ask the Secretary of State, while this laboratory is still part of the vital infrastructure for the Dutch high-tech industry as far as the Christian Union is concerned? The Christian Union is concerned that the quality of metrological work becomes less important than profitability. In addition, there is a risk that the specialist scientists working at the VSL will leave. Technical companies and institutes have shared their concerns with me in large numbers via phone and e-mail. The VSL threatens to be unable to carry out its independent task and the smartest people, with years of unique experience, are at risk of running away. The VSL, as an internationally respected metrology institute, is in danger. I have therefore read with approval the letter from the Secretary of State of, I believe, yesterday or the day before yesterday it will have been yesterday about the substantial measures it is taking towards the VSL. But I also call on the Secretary of State to come forward as soon as possible with a plan for controlling the vital infrastructure within this institute. The political responsibility laid down in the Metrology Act must also be strengthened in practice. Mr. Chairman. I would like to make a few comments on energy and climate. The transition to a sustainable economy is now really taking shape and the path to a greener future is becoming more and more concrete. It is all the more amazing that financial institutions such as banks, pension funds and insurers still invest massively in fossil energy. Following the Paris Agreement, APB has started to invest even more in fossil energy companies. Fortunately, good steps are also being taken. However, all this cannot be achieved without concrete actions to achieve the climate goals. What can the Minister do to encourage the financial sector to make much more green investments? Mr. Chairman. The gas crane in Groningen has already been mentioned: it can and will close faster than expected. This is an important decision, but the problems in Groningen are still great, physical but also spiritual. The Christian Union has always insisted on adequate mental care, and fortunately money has now been made available for this. The Minister would discuss this with the region, because much more is needed. What's the result of that? And is he in contact with his colleague from VWS about this? Mr. Chairman. Biomass is in full political interest. That is good, because a large part of our energy supply depends on it. But biomass must meet solid criteria. The Christian Union has always been critical of the use of woody biomass, pellets, which, moreover, often does not come from our country. Work is now under way on a biomass sustainability framework, which will be ready in the first quarter of next year. Cascading is also important: no biomass burning when more high-quality application is possible. If hundreds of grant decisions are now issued for biomass plants, we will create our own problems for the near future. How does the Minister intend to prevent this? Mr. Chairman. I will conclude my contribution with a special announcement, namely the announcement that this year I am not proposing an amendment for innovative and sustainable shipbuilding. "What?!', is said here from box-K. No, I'm not tabling an amendment. It may not seem like news, but it is, because in 2012, 2013, 2016, 2017 and 2018 the Christian Union tabled an amendment to ensure the fair competitive position of our innovative sustainable shipbuilding industry. But last summer the Secretary of State announced on his own initiative that the SDS scheme for sustainable shipbuilding would be extended by three years. I would like to thank her very much for this. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u296	Thank you very much for your input. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Van Raan. Mr Van Raan speaks on behalf of the Animal Party. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u297	Thank you, Mr President. Thanks also to Mr Bruins for the action plan for craftsmanship; I will read it with great interest. The cabinet is working against its own climate goals and is still passing the problems on to future generations. That is the theme of our contribution. Time and again, it appears that the climate crisis is unfolding faster than ever thought possible and that the consequences are greater than expected. Scientists warned us that the world's population will face unprecedented suffering if we do not radically change the helm. No sign of this urgency in Dutch policy. Steps, as they are often called. Steps are taken in the right direction, but no further sign of urgency. Mr. Chairman. To start with the goal that we have to achieve next year: Urgenda. We can see that the government's approach is failing. First of all, the self-chosen criteria of this cabinet, by which it throws away the climate plans that have been presented. The judge just said: "Objectives for 2030 and beyond cannot eliminate the danger of a dangerous situation requiring intervention now. In addition to the risks, social costs are important in this context. Later on, the carbon budget is decreasing and, at that later stage, much more stringent measures are needed." Does the Minister recognise that the four criteria of the cabinet, which we mentioned earlier, are contrary to the judge's ruling? And is the Minister prepared to abandon these misplaced criteria and thus actually make the extreme effort required by the 2020 target? A second example of why the Cabinet fails by 2020: the Minister takes the middle of the ranges provided by the PBL, while the Urgenda ruling is at a minimum of 25% CO reduction. Why doesn't the Cabinet take care to fulfil its duty of care, as the judge demands? Does the Minister think that this government's delay will only reduce the cost-efficiency of climate policy? Next week we will be discussing Urgenda extensively, but we would like to have an answer to the questions asked. Mr. Chairman. Then the look at 2030. This cabinet likes to call itself a European frontrunner, but it is the opposite. Earlier, I asked the Minister to look into the Danish climate plans. He didn't want to. Denmark is on its way to a 70% CO reduction target by 2030 which, unlike the butter-soft Dutch Climate Act, should be legally enforceable. The non-enforceable Dutch aim of 49% stands out in favour of this. The Danes also came with the goal of being a zero-emission society in 2040. In short, a higher acceleration to keep the target of 1.5°C in sight. Shouldn't that also be the commitment to the next climate summit in Madrid? Does the Minister intend to be informed of the advantages and disadvantages of the ambitious Danish plans? Does the Minister recognise that it is time to strengthen the Dutch 2030 target as well? I am considering a motion which instructs the government to take speed of reduction as a starting point. Mr. Chairman. The agricultural plans also contradict this Minister's climate policy. Over the past year, it has become painfully clear where the fight for the unsustainable livestock and meat sector will lead: a nitrogen crisis that is holding the country in its grip, farmers who are crying out for clarity about their future, and yet more animals that died in barn fires, with the greetings of the CDA and the VVD. Mr. Chairman. Our livestock sector has exceeded all climate, nature, environmental and animal welfare limits. We're gonna need a cover. But this cabinet keeps coming up with patch tools, to keep everything as much as possible to the old. Technical measures should reduce emissions from livestock farming. Immaculate hope, which has been blinded for decades. After all, we now know that the government is counting on this and that it is going to bring farmers into bankruptcy. Five farmers a month. I see there's been an interruption, Mr. Chairman, but maybe I should finish it? The CBS found this month that environmental techniques in livestock farming do not work or work badly. Yet again hundreds of millions more are invested, as in manure digesters, where billions of euros have already gone over the past decade. Why does the Minister suddenly put aside all his principles and spend so much money on measures that are not going to work? Where is the cost-effectiveness here? I'd like an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u298	The ease with which the Party for Animals here indicates that it would be the farmers' fault that they have barn fires and all the insinuations of the Party for Animals that the CDA is behind the barn fires: I find it really weird what Mr Van Raan is putting forward here. I have a real problem with that, because of course it doesn't make any sense at all, as Mr Van Raan himself knows. It's not the first time he's brought up total bullshit here today either. But I am just having trouble with this and perhaps Mr Van Raan can come back to it and say that he may not have meant it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u299	This is a misunderstanding. I do not so much blame the farmers, but rather the policy of all these years of the CDA and the VVD that the farmers are in that situation. And I also blame the CDA for not paying attention to the urgency of the problems we are in. It would be a good idea for the CDA to take that into account. When we look at the wide prosperity, things are going well in the here and now. But in later and elsewhere, it really is a mess. You're responsible for that. So before you call it all chatter... I'm fine with that, and you can attack me. It's not my personal opinion. All you have to do is open up a scientific report and it screams murder and fire.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u300	Thank you. Mrs. Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u301	Mr. Van Raan wipes everything in one heap for his convenience, and with that he does a lot of people short. That is a pity, because farmers stand up every day for dew and want to take care of a healthy and honest sandwich for all the people in our country. That they are treated in this way and that then with the permission of the Party for Animals all people enter their company to occupy stables and so on, is too crazy for words.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u302	I'm tasting some kind of pedagogic anger at the CDA, as if the Party for Animals allowed it. That's not true at all. I challenge Mrs Mulder to make that happen. But she's gonna sit down now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u303	No, no, no, we're not gonna challenge each other. I didn't really hear a question. You responded to it briefly. I would therefore like to ask you to continue with your speech. I think it would be wiser.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u304	Yeah, but it's a personal fact. It's really not good what's going on here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u305	You disagree. You also disagree on this point. We are dealing with the EZK, Economic Affairs and Climate budget, so I would ask you to continue with your input.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u306	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I will. Thank you. The same goes for the key to animal feed: a powder here for less methane and an enzyme there for less nitrogen. Revenues for the multinational DSM: many millions of euros. Cost to taxpayers: tens of millions of euros. A reduction in the number of animals in livestock farming is inevitable, both in the climate and in the nitrogen dossier. Would the Minister for Climate be clear about this to the Minister for Agriculture, in order to avoid high costs for both society and individual livestock farmers? The aviation plans also contradict this Minister's climate policy. After all, the ink of the Climate Agreement was not yet dry or the cabinet already came up with a growth plan for Schiphol. Also, the cabinet has not yet established a line by Lelystad Airport, the fata morgana of the fossil daydreamers of our cabinet. While all signals are green for a shrinkage in aviation, a sector that is not even a serious part of the climate plans. When will the Minister of Climate call the Minister of Aviation to order? Is he putting an end to the sacred houses of aviation from a climate perspective? Mr. Chairman. Then the biomass. We need to talk about it. The cabinet's biomass plans are counterproductive. In the nitrogen crisis, the government has no idea at all of the nitrogen emissions that the many hundreds of biomass plants will produce. Can the Minister inform the Chamber about the expected emissions and how he intends to find room for them? Which sectors are going to have to pay for this? What's his best available estimate right now? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. In addition to nitrogen, the Minister also ignores the many times higher CO emissions from woody biomass, because he does not think that they need to be counted according to EU rules. In doing so, he immediately counters his own tonne-hunting, because what will he do when the EU comes to its senses and decides that biomass no longer counts as sustainable or as half-sustainable? I'd like a response. Now that even science explicitly warns and a collection of European scientists indicates that biomass policy is counterproductive and is therefore a waste of community money, the climate minister responds at once with the statement that they are all climate scientists claiming all kinds of things. In a short note he calls it an opinion piece no less than eighteen times and he thus positions himself dangerously close to the climate explorers. And that's something he certainly doesn't want to be associated with, I suppose. It is not just the science that is defending this policy. In society, too, resistance is growing and even from abroad, the Netherlands is increasingly being called upon to finance the natural destruction that it finances there. The First Chamber also recently spoke out against new subsidies on wood aid through a motion by the Party for Animals and indicated that it no longer believed in the so-called climate gains it would offer. And today, this Chamber took the next step by indicating that it really does not consider it desirable to grow wildly. So when does the Minister stop supposedly saving the climate at the expense of the climate? And how much available grant can he get back? Have any subsidies been granted to projects that the nitrogen crisis will not allow to continue? Is that going to cost us money again and, if so, how much? How will he prevent new subsidies from being granted? The question is, then, when will the Minister review his biomass policy? I'm considering a motion on this point. Mr. Chairman. The Animal Party warned this government on a regular basis that it is on its way to commit ecocide, conscious damage and degradation of our ecosystems resulting in disruption. Agriculture, aviation and industry: climate, living environment and, in some cases, safety are the victims. Klaas van Egmond said so: "It is still not understood that in a finite world it is not possible to grow endlessly." Does the Minister share the view that nature also represents a value in itself? Is the Minister prepared to have an inventory carried out on the concept of "ecocide"? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Finally. The court ruled that the State is violating his duty of care. Young people have acted massively against the failing climate policy and will continue to do so as long as political leadership remains out. The cabinet also came up with a budget for 2020 that is not in line with the agreed climate targets. Last year, the Animal Party voted against the entire state budget because it cannot take responsibility for a post-flood policy. And this year the same question is on the table again, albeit with an even higher urgency. If the Cabinet does not drastically adjust its climate plans, the Animal Party will also have to vote against the 2020 budget. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u307	Thank you very much. I see another question from Mr Sienot.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u308	Me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u309	That's my last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u310	Your last one, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u311	Well, that's great, because that...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u312	Shortly, because I also look at the clock.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u313	... I'd like to devote myself to this brief question. I hear the Party for Animals constantly telling me that they want to meet the climate goals and then they shout out what is not possible. I can't hear them telling me exactly what they want. I think it is a pity that they are really failing the Dutch innovative power, the Dutch entrepreneurship and the Dutch ingenuity. Tell all these people how the Party for Animals wants to achieve these climate goals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u314	Thank you. Mr. Van Raan, please give me a brief answer, because there will be another debate after this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u315	I am not going to read out our party programme, which contains 550 measures that do what we have to do in proportion to fair-share in order to limit the rise in temperature to 1.5oC. But Mr Sienot knows better than anyone that we make regular proposals, such as shrinking aviation. That is a good goal. We're talking about the shrinkage of livestock. We talked about the energy tax. It's actually based on output. How do you do that? Is it gas or electricity? So don't you have to turn it into an input tax? That is a very important measure. We have proposed to adapt the declining tax system for energy. Numerous proposals!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u316	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u317	I see Mr Sienot looking a little surprised...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u318	No, no, no, no, no, no. Mr Sienot will certainly read your election programme again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u319	That's what I'm assuming. Thank you for that promise, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u320	Thank you. I would now like to give the floor to Mrs Van Brenn. She speaks on behalf of the 50PLUS Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u321	Mr. Chairman. I stand here instead of my colleague Gerrit Jan van Otterloo, who cannot be here because of sad personal circumstances. Mr. Chairman. We live in extraordinary times, in several ways. Our country is under the spell of climate, nitrogen and pfas. People are afraid that their all kinds of pricey sustainability measures are being pushed down the throat. The whole country's locked up because of a legal ruling on nitrogen. Construction's almost shut down. And as if the crisis in the housing market without all this was not big enough! There is a banging on farmers' permits for emissions, and then the pfas are still on top of this pile. Each of these three cases would cause a lot of unrest, but now all three are happening at the same time. Yes, these are extraordinary times, turbulent times. There are risks of bankruptcy of construction companies and dredging companies. Meanwhile, the public hears that the adjustment of his home may cost tens of thousands of euros. Do you find it strange that the Malieveld flooded several weeks in a row with troubled farmers and builders? The rack's gonna come out soon. All this requires a reliable government that takes consistent, effective and efficient measures. I would just like to refer to Article 3.1 of the Compatibility Act. Feasible and affordable for everyone and a fair sharing of burdens remain the starting point, but that is where things are not always going well. Think, for example, of the impact on older citizens. Yes, we have argued before that everyone should do their part, but in proportion. There is no indexing and possibly even a reduction in pensions, and certainly the elderly no longer have the opportunity to compensate for this. The gas load's going up. A lot of older people are at home and aren't very mobile. They must therefore raise their stove. In the course of the examination of the Tax Plan, 50PLUS referred this to the Secretary of State for Finance. This may be difficult to set up, but we really want to find a way to compensate these elderly people. Will this Minister continue to think with us about this? Moreover, the sustainability loans for many municipalities through the Stimuleringsfonds Volkshuizing (Stimuleringsfonds) apply an age limit of 75 years. 50PLUS has already mentioned this and wants this limit to be abolished. No, not all the elderly are so rich that they can afford it themselves. Even though many of you would like to believe this, it is not so. Why do you have to give a 26-year-old and not a 76-year-old? For each application granted, the applicant may walk under the bus the following day. Each application should include a provision regulating how the debt is paid off should the applicant die earlier. This limit is arbitrary and really smells like age discrimination. So let me ask you again: is the Minister prepared to drop this limit? Help the citizen, therefore, is our call. Of course, it is nice that the adjustment of the storage of renewable energy accounts for a large part of companies and we also understand that companies are being subsidised for a larger amount, especially because there are major steps to be taken. However, we also know that increased costs are usually reflected in the price of products, and that is the way to end up on the citizens' plate. So help the citizen to bear the burden of the aforementioned sustainability loans, by actively pointing out all possibilities to individuals and by citizens. And do something about the high-energy bill. Colleagues have already made the point that 650,000 people are no longer able to pay the bills. The share of taxes in the energy account is 50%. With the adjustments, it's falling slightly, but it's still very much. How is the government going to ensure that these people do not drown in these burdens? The government says it's looking for support, but that's not gonna work. People who are unable to pay their bills are at risk of being shut down and have to report to debt relief. They must make payment arrangements there. There may be additional costs for letters of formal notice, bailiffs and so on. So it's just getting up. This only increases the problem. 50PLUS is against people who can't afford it being thrown into one pile with fraudsters. That is completely unjustified. 50PLUS wants the government to ensure that people who really can't afford it, but who go through all these steps in the notification of debt relief, should at least not have to pay any additional costs. In this way, they are also the quickest to emerge from the problems. We would like a response from the Minister. Speaking of policy effectiveness, last week we received a petition from the greenhouse growers on the ODE. The increased ODE leads for them to make the payment so high that it is difficult for many to bear. That does not encourage them to switch from natural gas to electricity. In this way, the policy is counterproductive. Can the Minister respond to this? 'Cause if it happens here, it probably happens in other places, too. This is also due to a well-known problem that other colleagues have already mentioned: the overload of electricity transport infrastructure. The Minister is aware of this problem, because it is now clear that there will be a national programme of main energy structures. The start note will come in early 2020. In the summer of the same year there will also be an opinion for the regions. That's fine, but there's still a question for me. For years it has been clear that there will be full deployment on electrification. Of course, it is not ready from today to tomorrow, but how can it only start now, that the ministry is only starting to take the direction and that the start note and the advice are still waiting for a long time? So it's gonna be a long time before something really co-ordinates. Does the Minister see an opportunity to speed this up? Last week, the Plan Bureau for the Environment and the Centraal Planbureau announced that there was a need for an extra boost on climate action, otherwise the target will be out of sight in 2030. Does this lead to additional efforts or investments? The Court states that it is not clear where and how the additional resources from the Spring Paper and the climate envelope are being used. Can the Minister clarify this? Speaking of policy effectiveness, are the most efficient and effective measures usually taken? What are we putting money into? Then what are you getting out of it? The Minister, as a responsible and coordinating executive, really has the direction. It must be clear in order to ensure this in the short and medium term. It should also be used on every scale to prevent unnecessary use. So savings. Now there is already an obligation for companies to save. Can we also turn to consumers and make people more aware of their consumption? Old refrigerators, unnecessary lighting, chargers but also terrace heaters all cost a lot of energy. Does the Minister see a role for himself there? Finally, on this point, I would like to draw attention to obstructive regulation in the field of innovation. At this time, new developments in the context of sustainability are emerging. For example, we have already heard in committee the example of the producer of CO-neutral asphalt. He can't participate in infrastructure procurement because he's the only one. Yeah, that's how we shoot ourselves in the foot, of course. In what way is attention paid to this problem? Are the rulers prepared to tackle this bottleneck? Then there's something else. Other colleagues have already said it, and I think it is a very broad point of this committee: the decay of the shopping streets, the emptiness of shopping premises and their consequences for livingability. Retailers are pulling a massive bell. It is indeed a big problem. And yes, the government can't help that you can buy anything from the Alibabas of this world on the Internet at ridiculously low prices. There is no question of competing, but what many people consider important, especially older people, is the viability of the areas where they live. That means something must be done. I just heard comments from colleagues about a task force. I think that's a good idea. We will certainly support that, but the government can also take the space to change the destination of these buildings, for example for catering or for housing. Make sure it stays liveable there. Does the Secretary of State see opportunities to encourage and facilitate municipalities for this purpose? Mr. Chairman. In budgetary treatment, Groningen cannot remain unnamed. Yeah, a lot's going on. The gas tap is closing and pretty fast. And the NAM gets out in the middle of the damage settlement. Fine. The temporary committee has been operational for a while now. A scheme has been set up to deal with the reservoir of claims within an orderly period of time. Still, it's still pinching. There's still a lot of dissatisfaction. What about the lead times of repairing damage? The information on the TCMG website suggests that it could be even better. More than 17,000 damage reports are open, overalls. What about the builder's variant? At the moment eleven contractors have been found fit. Well, that's nice, but it doesn't seem like enough to make quick meters. Any sign of anything else? We would like to hear the Minister's views on this. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u322	Thank you. I should now like to give the floor to Mr Stoffer. Mr Stoffer spoke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u323	Mr. Chairman. I say to the cabinet: do not lose sight of business. Because the reduction in corporate tax is being postponed. Construction and earthmoving companies struggle with unworkable pfas policies. Why didn't the Department of Control stop this? Then I'm talking about the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Companies in the food industry and greenhouse horticulture are facing enormous burdens by increasing energy taxes. In short, where is the government's commitment to our business? Because it's still the case: no jobs without companies. Mr. Chairman. Many companies have to deal with procurement policies. Very often unreasonable conditions are imposed or procedures are not properly followed. Most procurement services do have a complaint counter, but that very often does not work well. Many entrepreneurs do not dare to complain because they are afraid to miss follow-up assignments. If they do, there is a good chance that they will not respond until the tender has been completed. Businesses argue for better legal protection in the form of a procurement authority, for example under the wings of the competition authority ACM. The Secretary of State has not yet given any thought to this, but I would ask her to move on in this area. Mr. Chairman. As I have just said, the SGP is concerned about the impact of energy taxes on companies. I note that the burden increases are mainly on the shoulders of greenhouse farms and other non-industrial large consumers, and on the shoulders of smaller industrial companies. I tabled an amendment to the Tax Plan last week. Unfortunately that was only supported by the PVV, but who knows there will be new insights. The Dutch food industry, for example, pays five times more ODE tax per tonne of CO than I call a company called Shell's refinery. Large industrial companies are exempt from energy taxation through voluntary agreements; the smaller ones are not. The cabinet is now shielding with extra money from the SDE++ for industry, but what are the chances that large industrial companies will run away with the money? Where is the previously promised SME test under the Climate Agreement? My question to the Minister is whether he is prepared to identify what all these increases mean for the different sectors. The real question is: is there still fair burden-sharing? Mr. Chairman. From local authorities we get a lot of signals that the speed with which regional energy strategies are nurtured will be at the expense of gaining support and at the expense of democratic decision-making. I indicated that in the event of an interruption towards the VVD. At least there's no time for residents' meetings. That while it has a huge impact on people's living environment. The expression is still: runners are killers. I would like to say: care above speed. Mr. Chairman. The municipality of Groningen is at the forefront of the designation of natural gas-free districts. I can imagine that there, too. But the municipality is now putting plans in the refrigerator because it lacks 3 million euros for its implementation capacity. If you calculate that on the back of a beer skin, you'd say we're talking roughly 1 billion, which is 3 million times 355 municipalities. I admit that this is a very rough calculation. In the Municipal Fund, EUR 70 million have now been made available once for the RES route and the natural gas-free neighbourhoods. According to the Climate Agreement, the municipality should receive at least 150 million. My question is: how about that? And above all: how is the cabinet going to ensure that municipalities are able to fulfil their heroic role? Mr. Chairman. Then there is the energy saving. As a SGP, we have been committed to this for years. I note that the RES pathways focus on renewable energy production. Of course, that is very good in itself, but energy saving remains rather underexposed, while I think there is a lot of potential in it. Several regions are struggling with these sustainable energy challenges. I would say: give them room to use extra energy savings instead of extra wind farms. In the built environment, so-called Energy Service Companies, in plain Dutch, can play an important role, not only for households but also for entrepreneurs. But there is one problem: the lack of proper guarantee schemes. My question to the Minister is whether he cannot ensure that these energy service providers can also use the SME guarantee credit. Mr. Chairman. I can see the Minister's eyes. He's thinking, "When's he gonna come up with it?" But it's coming. The electricity grid is under great pressure. Several renewable energy projects cannot be connected while we are only at the beginning of the energy transition. Network management tariffs will increase significantly in this respect. And here he comes, here he comes: we have argued earlier for the stress tests for the energy system. My question is: when are they really coming? Look! I made the Minister happy. Now he can formulate a very sharp answer to that. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet also struggles with nitrogen and CO. That's what we're struggling with all over the country. In this respect, unorthodox measures are not shy. I think so, too. But I would like to add one more, namely to reduce the number of Sunday shopping days. More and more municipalities allow shopkeepers the free rein, at the expense of Sunday rest, small shopkeepers and employees. Emissions of an estimated 1 megaton of CO and nitrogen are also at the expense of the environment. Mr. Chairman. I say, let Sunday be a day of reflection and family instead of a day of commerce. As my colleague Mr Bruins said earlier, the beautiful gift of free Sunday is in several respects very good for everyone in our society. My question to the Minister is therefore whether he will at least look at what the possible elimination of Sunday shopping could bring in environmental gains. If you want to take the remaining Urgenda quote of 2 megatons of CO seriously, look at these kinds of measures. Mr. Chairman. I'm a little disappointed by my colleague from D66, who's gone now. Last year he talked a lot about the Sunday shop opening obligation. Anyway, we tabled a fine motion on that at the time. I'm actually waiting a lot for the law against mandatory shopping on Sundays. My question to the Secretary of State is when that law comes to the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Finally, climate ambitions. I'm gonna go over my time with that, but I'm not gonna do a second term tomorrow, so I'm gonna use that last minute. The SGP believes that the cabinet is too distracted by all kinds of predictions and climate objectives. Yeah, I really do. There will be a new set of measures to reach exactly 25% next year instead of 23% CO reduction. The cabinet also wants extra action because we are about to miss 14% of renewable energy production by 2020. The Minister also writes that the cabinet is determined.I understand that in order to achieve the 49% CO2 reduction by 2030, and also that the challenges of the Climate Agreement will have to be increased if market fluctuations are to change estimates. I fear that this mop policy will be at the expense of consistency and support. So I would say less strife and more realism. 'Cause you better have one sunboiler in the attic than ten on paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u324	Thank you very much. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Öztürk. He is speaking on behalf of the DENK Group. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u325	Mr. Chairman. Mr Stoffer of the SGP wants Sunday rest. That would be good for the climate. That is what I would say: well, then let us rest on Fridays or Saturdays; then we have given most of the believers among us the peace and reflection they would like. Perhaps we could table another motion together to introduce Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays rest. Mr. Chairman. Let me start with the economic affairs budget. Today I want to talk about the economy and the entrepreneurs. The economy is carried by a lot of different players. We have consumers and savers. We have employees and employers. We have business and government. But today I would like to draw attention to the entrepreneur. The entrepreneur makes new products and services. The entrepreneur invests and sets up new companies. The entrepreneur provides work and provides jobs. The entrepreneur is one of the most important parts of our economy. This applies in particular to small and medium-sized enterprises. They account for 71% of employment and 62% of value added. It's about barbers, bakers, shopkeepers, painters and so on. They carry our economy. DENK believes that these entrepreneurs deserve appreciation. DENK believes that these entrepreneurs should be given room. DENK believes that these entrepreneurs deserve support. By removing bottlenecks and not introducing unnecessary rules. By not burdening small and medium-sized enterprises unnecessarily. By offering entrepreneurs a level playing field. But what are the entrepreneurs getting from the Rutte cabinet? Here it comes. The government is taking away the self-employed deduction. They go down from €7.280 to €5,000 in eight years. The government increases the energy tax and the ODE tax for small entrepreneurs. The government increases VAT from 6% to 9%. The government abolishes the bpm refund for taxi drivers. The government creates small entrepreneurs with a financing problem with a usury interest rate of credits. The government is doing far too little to solve the problems with the payment of wages in the event of illness. Mr. Chairman. Then, of course, it is not weird that entrepreneurial confidence has fallen again. According to CBS, entrepreneurial confidence went from 10.6% to 6.6% in the fourth quarter. In construction, entrepreneurial confidence fell even harder. In construction, this confidence decreased from 20.6% to 15.3%. In the ICT and telecoms sector, entrepreneurial confidence went from 25% to 9.5%. That's weird, right? And then there are a few business parties in the government. How can it be? What does the Minister think of the decline in entrepreneurial confidence? What is the role of his policy in this? And what's he gonna do to reverse this tide? Mr. Chairman. The Rutte cabinet does not seem to understand entrepreneurs. The Rutte cabinet is in an ivory tower in The Hague. The Rutte cabinet is working on multinationals: Shell, Unilever, AkzoNobel. Let them come! Give them the dividend tax! But they're not dealing with SMEs, yes, with words. Their spokesmen sit here and tell nice stories about SMEs and entrepreneurs. Meanwhile, the government is shifting all that money to multinationals. And that Shell barely pays taxes, they're all fine with it. According to a survey by Het Financieele Dagblad, 41% of entrepreneurs are awake to the staff shortage. What does the Cabinet do about this? Far too little. Whether they are re-enterers or migrant workers, the cabinet is completely passive. In health care and other sectors, there is and remains a large shortage of people. The cabinet has no real solutions to this. DENK believes that the government should embrace migration. To help with our economy, to share the costs of ageing, to help with care, to ensure that we continue to grow, the Netherlands needs extra hands and talents. Does the Minister share the view of DENK that we need to make more work of labour migration for our economy? Does the Minister share the view that we should be less afraid of diversity and embrace diversity? Mr. Chairman. Entrepreneurs are also concerned about getting credit. Credit is important, especially for SMEs, but in practice SMEs lack credit. It is scandalous that the large business receives credit in 99% of the cases, while SMEs are refused 10% to 20% of the credit applications according to the CBS Financing Monitor. A good, live-in bank can make a business; a bad bank can break a business. The latter happens too often. Enough companies have gone bankrupt in the time of the crisis. And what did we do as a government? Banks saved. And now the banks are only there for the big entrepreneurs. That's crazy! Small entrepreneurs are now being shipped off by the government with Qredits. The big parties are proud: "We have Qredits!" But what do they ask for interest from the small entrepreneur who wants to borrow €10,000, €20,000, €30,000 or €40,000? 8.75%! That's just an interest rate on usury. That's just breaking down entrepreneurs. Does the Minister share the view that this does not resolve the financing problem for small entrepreneurs? Does the Minister share the view that it is unfair that small entrepreneurs should pay so much interest, while large entrepreneurs receive a 1% loan or even less than 1%? That's weird, right? The government's policy is: the weakest shoulders bear the toughest burdens. That is the policy of VVD, CDA, D66 and Christian Union. Mr. Chairman. DENK has a solution for this. Maybe the government can help from the EUR 50 billion investment fund, if that fund gets there. This was announced on Prince's Day. It should sustainably strengthen the Dutch economy. There would also be a growth letter setting out which sectors should be strengthened. I may have missed it, but I haven't seen anything yet. Where is the growth letter and where is the investment fund? The DENK Group believes that, if the cabinet decides to do so, the investment fund should not focus solely on innovation and science. The investment fund also needs to be there to help SMEs more easily access credit. As far as DENK is concerned, Qredits is dissolved as a self-employed organisation and is part of the investment fund. The investment fund can borrow 0% on the capital market. Then why is this low interest rate not passed on to the start-ups? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. I am considering a motion on this point. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands, of course, already has a kind of investment fund, which is much larger than the EUR 50 billion mentioned, namely the pension funds, which we all contribute to every month. The pension funds together have EUR 1,600 billion in assets; EUR 1,600 billion in assets! And our little entrepreneur can't get credit! If he does, there's an interest rate of 8.75%. An embarrassing display in a rich country. But why do they invest 88% of their assets abroad? Pension funds should invest much more than 12% in the Netherlands. Not that long ago, this was 50%. I am considering a motion on this point. The pension funds could do this through the investment fund, to which they can entrust their money, but also through the Volksbank or ABN AMRO. These government banks will then have to remain in the hands of the government for 100% and 56%. I'd like to get a reaction to this. Mr. Chairman. Another concern for entrepreneurs is the second year of the Disease Act. As a result of the payment of wages in case of sickness, many small entrepreneurs cannot take the risk of hiring staff. This leads society to lose jobs and entrepreneurs cannot grow. According to the government agreement, the government would accept this risk in order to relieve small SME entrepreneurs. At a later date it became known that private insurers would offer absenteeism policies for the second year of illness. This would start in 2020. The SME entrepreneurs in construction have complained that they do not know where they stand. How's that going? When will the exact offer of the insurers be known with the coverage and the costs? DENK wishes to reiterate the plea that the government should ensure affordable insurance for sickness pay for small entrepreneurs. I'd like a response. DENK also wants to lance for the franchise entrepreneurs. They are often heavily exploited by franchisees, large companies. Where is the special law announced to better protect franchisees? Mr. Chairman. Entrepreneurs also face discrimination. We've been through the whole racism story again this weekend. I've been advocating an entrepreneurial investigation for years. Discrimination on the entrepreneurial market is pretty big. It is now denied, but I hope that one day it will be recognised and that we will take action. In 2017, DENK already wrote that it is necessary to examine whether the FIOD and the Tax Administration extra control and harassment of migrants' families based on ethnicity. At that time, we were scorned by the Minister, but the fact that the Tax Administration may discriminate has now proved to be the result of the monitoring of the childcare allowance. The Tax Administration appears to use data on citizens' nationalities in its controls. I would like to ask the Minister whether he is finally prepared to investigate whether entrepreneurs are discriminated against by the Tax Office and the FIOD. I'd like a response. I am also considering a motion on this point. Finally, Mr President. I would also like to ask the Minister whether there may be discrimination in procurement and in the use of entrepreneurs among themselves. The DENK Group wants this to be investigated. DENK wants to see how and in what way entrepreneurs may be discriminated against, and how this can be tackled. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. I am also considering a motion on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u326	Thank you very much. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Van Haga on behalf of Mr Van Haga. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u327	Mr. Chairman. We live in a beautiful country, a stable and enterprising country, a country built by entrepreneurs, who have turned our country into the sixteenth economy of the world. We are a trading country par excellence, where it has to be noted that two thirds of our income is earned in the Netherlands and one third abroad. According to the World Economic Forum's global competitive index, the Netherlands is Europe's most competitive economy. We should be very proud of that. For a small country we do very well, but we have to be very careful. When the crisis started in 2008, Dutch business has had a very hard time. Until 2014, things were downright bad and entrepreneurs had to work hard to keep their heads above water. Things have been getting better for a few years, but things aren't going on their own. Economic growth in the Netherlands will weaken again. Recent CPB figures show that growth is even falling to 0% in 2022. There are enormous challenges ahead. Therefore, it is very important that the Dutch entrepreneur can rely on a small, efficient and serving government. I wonder if this is still the case. In recent years there has been a collective antipathy against entrepreneurs. That's dangerous. For most hardworking middlemen andzzp'ers the money doesn't mess around at all, quite the contrary. Let's review some of the issues that the government has invented for the Dutch entrepreneur in recent years. This is not only from this ministry, on the contrary, but the sum total of all these measures is an enormous increase in the life of the entrepreneur. Each individual measure may not seem substantial, but the accumulation of these measures is a major problem. My colleague Öztürk already had the same kind of story. A number of things come from the Ministry of Finance, for example in the Tax Plan. Profit tax will increase from 25% to 26.9% on 1 January 2020. And then the dga tax: I didn't know what I heard when I saw this measure come along. An entrepreneur builds up his business with blood, sweat and tears, then can borrow money on business terms to the owner himself, the neighbor or a stranger, all of which doesn't matter, but then suddenly the cabinet comes with a limit of €500,000. So you can borrow another million of your own money to the neighbor, but not to yourself anymore. I really do not understand what the ratio behind this measure is, because any significant interest charge was already set by the Tax Administration in the case of consumer credit. This is a typical example of bullying entrepreneurs; a lot of work, no result. The self-employed deduction will be reduced from €7.280 to €5,000 per year in 2028. This makes it deliberately more unattractive to work as a self-employed person. Why? That really escapes me. Mr. Chairman. Michael P. doesn't come up with his picture or his last name in the paper. But via the UBO register, every entrepreneur with name, address and property will be fully represented. Criminals get a free grab database from the Dutch government. Where everyone has their mouths full of privacy, that does not seem to apply to the entrepreneur. How is the Minister going to ensure that the entrepreneur's privacy remains guaranteed? We've got the AVG. I suppose that also applies to entrepreneurs. Mr. Chairman. The revision of box 3 that is in the scaffolding is perhaps still the biggest hold in the entrepreneur's savings. Officials see their pensions regulated by the ABP, but entrepreneurs often have to take care of them themselves. The shopkeeper owns his own shop and a few properties up there. After 40 years of squatting, that is immediately his or her pension. Savers are spared and have to pay virtually nothing more. With low interest rates and the judge's ruling in mind, that is, of course, justified. But why does this have to be paid for by the box 3 caller? Why is this stolen from the entrepreneur's own pension fund? Why is it not simply taxing the actual return? Why are you being punished twice if you have funding on these investments? If this continues, I predict that some 600,000 entrepreneurs have lost a large part of their pension. And no, in case anyone wonders: bigger investors don't suffer from this at all, because they're all happy in box 2. Then we have the VAT increase from 6% to 9%. And let me add another irritation, namely the VAR declaration forzzp'ers. The system worked fine, but had to be changed somehow. Why? How much time have we all spent on pointless model contracts that were in the Tax Office for months? And it's still unsolved. Clients still run the risk of employing azzp'er and the gross payment suddenly becomes a net wage payment on which no contributions and levies have been paid. An unacceptable situation! My question is when we can look at a simple and clear solution to this self-created problem. Then there's the next problem. That was mentioned earlier by my colleague Öztürk. The government agreement states: "In order to promote the return of SMEs to (permanent) employment, the wage pay period for small employers (up to 25 employees) is reduced from two to one year." That's a very nice line. Over the last two years, I have spoken to many entrepreneurs and said: this is going to happen. For small businesses, the burden of two years' pay in case of illness is far too heavy. But it won't happen. It's off. This cabinet has written this in the coalition agreement, but it is not going to happen. This lead burden therefore remains on the shoulders of the entrepreneurs and that is bad. If we all agree that someone who is sick should be paid for, I'm fine with that. But let's carry that burden together, collectively. Mr. Chairman. I'm not going to hold whole papers about the UWV, but I know from experience that the fastest way to get into a burn-out as an entrepreneur is to have an employee who ended up in a burn-out. A lady who had a snack bar in Haarlem happened to. Her only employee sat at home with a burn-out. The owner himself, the dga thus, had to pay the employee's salary for two years plus all the services of this employee himself. In addition, she had to implement the re-integration obligations imposed by the UWV and organise conversations, reports and all other messing around. The result: a burn-out of the owner in combination with her bankruptcy. But the paperwork was in order and we all know that the UWV works very badly and is bureaucratic. I know that this actually belongs to another ministry, but I would like to know from the Minister whether an attempt can still be made to see whether companies up to 25 employees can somehow be spared from this burden. Mr. Chairman. The extension of maternity leave is in the same quadrant. That is a fine arrangement, but why are the burdens entirely borne by the entrepreneur? Mr. Chairman. Then I come to a point that Mr Aartsen has already mentioned. I would like to talk briefly about China and the Dutch retail trade. China is not only dangling over Africa, but is now also rattling at the gate of the Netherlands. In fact, via e-commerce there is a tough battle with our own SMEs, with our own shopkeepers. Let me be clear: if entrepreneurs in other countries can do things smarter, more innovative and cheaper, we must, of course, put our hands into our own hands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u328	I see a very short question from Mr Amhaouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u329	Mr Van Haga mentions a whole range of measures that are not good. He also mentioned the Vpb. He even said it would go up. I think he's got that on paper. Can you confirm that again?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u330	Well, you're asking the question...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u331	I think it's important to name it anyway...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u332	No, no, no. Before I give the floor to Mr Van Haga, I must say that I have heard a whole list of measures. It is not part of this budget process. A part is Finance and a part is SZW, so I heard. I therefore give Mr Van Haga the opportunity to reply briefly to your question. Then you have one brief follow-up question, but then I really want to get back to the subject tonight. It is up to the directors whether or not they will answer the questions tomorrow, but I hope that they will refer to the other budgets for what is not covered by the EZK budget. Mr Van Haga, a brief response to Mr Amhaouch. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u333	I understand that I am a little out of line, but I am concerned with the accumulation of measures coming from all kinds of different ministries. Maybe it's part of this ministry, but if you look at all the ministries together, that stacking is pretty bad. The Vpb goes down first, of course. She went down a little less and goes up again at some point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u334	Both rates go down. The first rate goes from 19% to 16.5%. The second rate goes from 25% in 2021 to 21.7%. I think it is important that we give the right figures here. Otherwise we will get a totally distorted picture of the entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u335	I'm moving on to China. There is something else going on with China: there is no level playing field. China does not comply with WTO rules, nor with OECD standards. It's not a member either. Chinese companies can simply buy Dutch companies, but they can't buy Dutch companies. With us, state aid is prohibited, but the Chinese government sponsors Chinese companies without scruples. There is a large-scale violation of patents and intellectual property, which means that the development costs lie with us and turnover and profits flow to China. Marks are forged to your heart's content. Fire-threatening counterfeit products are offered for a fraction of the price on Alibaba. Chinese fake cables are currently being installed in our homes, which are extremely dangerous. A lot of Chinese electronics are unsafe, so our data can be stolen. Chinese do not pay VAT if the value is less than €22. No import duties are paid under the €150. I think that's weird. In addition, there is also the question of who controls this? Who controls the value indicated? I don't think our Customs is capable of checking all that anymore. And finally, within the Postal Convention, China states that it is a developing country. That's why it hardly pays transport costs. When are we gonna do something about this? I would like to hear from the Minister specifically in this area what we are going to do about these transport costs in the short term. Haste is necessary, because the Dutch retail trade is going to be over the top. There is no level playing field in any way, because the Chinese simply do not follow the rules. Mr. Chairman. In addition to all the misery that entrepreneurs experience from the national government, they also have to deal with the rules from the municipalities. I mention a number of things that come from the local left-wing tubes: extremely high parking rates or even parking bans and endlessly long permit routes. Whether it's a building permit or a hospitality permit, there's usually a reason to say no. The trajectories sometimes last for years and are incredibly expensive. Instead of hunting down drug criminals and street thugs, fines are handed out to entrepreneurs who, for example, blurring. My colleague Aartsen said this as well. Indeed, a hairdresser who, for example, pours a glass of wine, or a café where you can buy the paintings on the wall. Minister, do you agree with me that these priorities are wrong? Shouldn't the criminals who rob shops be caught before we free up money, time and people to harass entrepreneurs? What can this ministry contribute to this? Mr. Chairman. We debated nitrogen for a long time last week. Without thinking about the consequences, the government has identified 166 sites as Natura 2000 sites and introduced an unfeasible nitrogenoma. Based on unmeasured nitrogen depositions and a rattling model, the problem is then passed on to the farmers, the builders, the dredgers and other entrepreneurs. Nature in the Netherlands has no nitrogen problems. We have an administrative problem. If you deal with business in this way, you'll be bankrupt in a few years. Why can't you actually compensate the construction phase for the old use phase? I understand that the old use phase may be wound up with the new use phase, but why not the construction phase? It seems to go wrong in the model. I'd like a response. As of 1 October, the government introduced a new standard for pfas of 1 microgram per kilogram of earth without prior impact analysis. I am very pleased that my motion was adopted this afternoon and that we are therefore going to do better in future. We're going to do an impact analysis for every policy change in the future. Then I read this morning in The Financial Daily that permits for geothermal energy, thus geothermal heat, are only issued after six months. Can the Minister explain why this is so slow and whether it is not possible simply to issue a permit within the six-week period? I have always been very much in favour of sustainability, but in a technical and economical way. Electric driving because it reduces emissions and just drives finer and cheaper. An isolated house because it's just more pleasant and good for the wallet. Solar panels on the roof because the return, even without a subsidy, is higher than on a savings account. That's how I'm gonna go. But now I get the feeling that we are dealing with a kind of climate religion. Without any technical justification, we grant subsidies on biomass while we know that this leads to more CO emissions. The alleged profit is compensation in the future. This is bullshit, and we need to stop this as soon as possible. Without any technical justification, we will get rid of natural gas as quickly as possible, knowing that methane is the cleanest fossil fuel. And we possess it in abundance. As a transition fuel, natural gas is indispensable and we should also nurture and maintain our gas infrastructure while it is still uncertain what will become the energy carrier of the future. I've heard a lot about hydrogen. Compliments also for all the signals that we are going to do something in that direction. That'd be great. Without any technical justification, we fill meadows with solar panels while the roofs are still empty. And I can do better than that. Unfortunately, here too, the government has made a bunch of rules that make it all go wrong. Postal code roses, netting schemes and subsidy schemes, while it's so simple. The government is often well-intentioned in the way of progress. One final comment on the sustainability of housing and then specifically on monuments. That's virtually impossible right now. 62.000 national monuments and about 60,000 municipal monuments are almost unsustainable because of the role of the government. Double glass is not allowed. Roof insulation, solar panels, front walls, it's not allowed. The municipalities are after the music here and I think we want monuments, in fact all houses but also monuments to be preserved. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether there is anything to be done about this at national level, for example a kind of delta plan for monuments. What should be the role of the government now? Normally, I'd argue for as little government as possible. The government is often the biggest enemy of the entrepreneur. Too many rules, too much interference and often unreliable because the rules change over and over again and often without transitional arrangements. But we can't without government, but we'd like a small, efficient and serving government. A government that protects the entrepreneur from injustice and does not harass him with idle rules. A government that respects existing situations and therefore does not introduce cases without transitional arrangements. A government that respects the fact that entrepreneurs keep their own pants, carry their own risks, pay a lot of taxes and arrange their own pensions. Unfortunately, I have to conclude that the entrepreneur in the Netherlands is currently in heavy weather. I hope this Minister will take my cry for help. This cabinet is taking enormous risks with Dutch entrepreneurs, farmers, builders, middlemen,zzp'ers, small self-employed, shopkeepers and other people who have liberal professions. As far as I am concerned, we have reached a turning point and if this continues, enterprising Netherlands will soon be home with a burn-out. I wonder who will pay the salaries of the state, county and municipal officials. My last question is this. Can you give an overview of all the measures taken by all ministries in the last two years that have affected Dutch entrepreneurs in a positive and negative sense? I think that this would be a useful exercise and I think that we would all be very shocked, because the various ministries have all taken a great deal of measures that have affected the entrepreneurs. Mr. Chairman. This was my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u336	Thank you very much. That brings us to the end of the first term of office. This debate will continue tomorrow, on 20 November. According to the schedule, it will be around the clock tomorrow night at 7 p.m., but keep an eye on the schedule, because there are a number of debates ahead of it. For now, I'm suspending the debate. We'll continue tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-tweedekamer-17.u337	I will suspend the sitting for a few moments, then we will continue with the Social Affairs and Employment Collection Act.
