ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u1	Welcome, also to the people in the public gallery. The next item is the debate on child care payments that have been wrongly recovered. I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Finance. I give the floor to Mr Omtzigt as the first speaker on behalf of the CDA. Speaking time is seven minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. It's impressive to hear from parents what effect stopping supplements, not knowing what you're up to, on individual lives. "Package Day" sounds abstract, but not when it happens to you year after year. These people indicated that because they were labelled a fraud, they had problems with job applications and couldn't give their children anything for years because they were below the social minimum. For two years, that has made a profound impression on me in the conversations I have with these parents. Because your world is standing still. You lose faith when you hear from the Tax Administration, which you trust in itself, one day that your host parent is no good, that the host company is no good and that you sometimes have to pay back tens of thousands of euros without knowing what's going on. Can the IRS just stop the surcharge? Year after year the problems of the parents accumulated. Even if they objected, it took them years to hear a result. By appealing to the courts and to the Council of State, which recently corrected some of its own judgments. For years, these people's lives have stood still. It is now clear that a group of parents who have been dealt with in the CAF cases, but also the host parents and host parents, have done nothing wrong. But trust in the tax administration, government and politics has been severely damaged by this affair. After years of struggle from these people a little light is now coming at the end of the tunnel. The Donner Committee has examined the first of the 170 CAF cases, namely CAF 11, an office from Eindhoven, and concluded that the Tax Administration has acted from a tunnel vision for many years and proposes a compensation scheme. This will bring relief to many families. Hopefully they will be able to put the problems with the Tax Administration behind them. However, there are also families that have major follow-up damage. They lost their homes, their partner couldn't work and they couldn't make any more income. Relationships have broken down, people have been in debt restructuring for years and haven't come out yet, because debts don't expire after three years if you've been called a fraud by the IRS. What can the Secretary of State do to give them easy access to the right to appropriate compensation? That will not be the standard compensation scheme. The Donner Committee is now going to look at the other 169 CAF cases. That's a huge job, because it's very varied. In all honesty, among the 169 CAF cases there are, of course, cases of fraud, because it was a fraud team and sometimes they have responded to totally wrong signals, but they will also sometimes have responded to the right signals. That's all gonna have to be figured out. The quality of reporting to the Tax Administration is very moderate. What's the time frame before all those parents sitting here who aren't under CAF 11 see the light that's starting to shine before CAF 11? The Council of State has ruled that if you say €100 wrong, you no longer have to pay back €10,000, but that it has to be proportional. Within six months, the government will have to come up with new policies, but can I assume that in the meantime no one will have to repay the whole supplement because it is €50 or €100 wrong? Maybe €50 or €100 or maybe €150 with a small increase, but not €10,000. When is this new policy coming? In order to prevent the tax authorities' checks from causing major problems for families again in the future, I would like to zoom in on a few aspects in the CAF 11 case. In 2015, the CAF 11 cases were evaluated. At that time it was considered that the conduct was not continued, but it was decided to proceed against the parents rather than stop what happened. Then why was in February 2015 when those people couldn't have decided to drop the case against the bureau and thus against the parents? The objections lodged by the parents after the cessation were not given to the opposition teams until the summer of 2017. What closet have they been in? Who has decided that your objections will be held for a year, with great consequences for these parents? Were the parents on lockdown lists? In other words, is it really true that they could not apply for childcare allowance again? Could the employees of Supplements change cases in their file? Can the parents also know that they were on that exclusion list? Is the Secretary of State prepared to investigate this? Can parents who are unable to apply for fees due to an ongoing study be informed by regular means, so that they have an action perspective? Mr. Chairman. Many tax officials, too, are doing a great deal of work and some of them are sitting in the gallery today, as I know, have had difficulty with this way of working and have also told their leaders. How come this hasn't led to change? How is the Secretary of State going to ensure that the Tax Administration intervenes sooner if a mistake is made? We would like the Council of Europe directive on whistleblowers to be fully implemented. When exactly did the Tax Administration not comply with what law? That is, of course, at the heart of what has happened here. The Secretary of State and the Committee write about the Awir, but when was it about the Awb and the KOT and in what part? Mr. Chairman. Public services are there for citizens. They have powerful power resources that are enormous for citizens and families. It is precisely for this reason that these resources should only be used in accordance with the law, and only when they are proportionate. A tax administration, which has the task of enforcing the laws, cannot escape the law. This undermines citizens' confidence in this service, in government and in the rule of law. Since March, there has been a motion from me on a separate investigation into the relationship between citizen and tax administration and the rights of the taxpayer, which is now falling apart on difficult questions at the Tax Telephone. Can we expect the proposal that an eminent former judge or an ex-Ombudsman should make an authoritative proposal on how to shape this? Could you, for example, look at the Taxpayer Advocate, a sort of Ombudsman? That's how things work in the U.S. when things really go wrong. Mr. Chairman. What's going to happen to people within the Tax Office who knowingly failed to comply with the law? Is that gonna be sorted out? Can that be figured out? We are not dealing here with personnel policy, but it cannot be that only the whistleblowers are affected. Finally, Mr President. These cases show that the surcharge system is not sustainable as it is today. The combination of an undetermined income and the ex post checking of the hours and of the individual host parents makes control difficult and creates an enormous amount of recovery. The CDA would like to look at adjustments to the surcharges, such as: based on a fixed income or a good safety net scheme. We are therefore very interested in the so-called inter-departmental policy investigations that are being carried out to see how this can be done better, because a new system will also have to be set up properly. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u3	Indeed, Mr Omtzigt says that the situations in which people have gotten involved are not going to put you in the cold. It was like tears, too, at the petition offer. And that makes sense. Well, not all the people sitting here or watching this have been part of a CAF investigation. The method of labeling people as fraud is from before and from then on. Does the CDA think that these people, who have been treated the same as the people under the fraud investigation teams, should also get their money back and get compensation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u4	I would ask the government to put this question to the Donner Committee as well: has there been any proper action? That needs to be investigated. So the answer is yes. I think there should be that possibility. However, I believe that the assessment of individual dossiers should not be carried out here, but with the Donner Committee or the Tax Administration.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u5	It is obvious that we cannot look at individual files...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u6	No, I'm not saying that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u7	...if only because we don't have the data and the parents don't get their data. To this day, they don't get their files. If they request it from the IRS, they'll be intimidated. "Why do you want that? What do you want to know?" They just want to know why they're suspected of fraud, because then they can find out if it's true, if they made a mistake and where it's in him. It's about me getting zoomed in on these fraud teams over and over again. But it's from before those fraud teams and after that. If we are to put this great disgrace right now only for the victims of these fraud teams, we are not going to solve this major problem as a whole. And that would be a shame, I say to the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u8	A few points. As Mrs Leijten has seen, I have not only looked at the CAF teams but also at the ruling of the Council of State. A relatively small error led to huge recoveries. I want to know how many people it's about and how many years it's going back. I want us to make that right. I'm asking how that's handled. That's a question I'm putting to the Secretary of State. I assume that this question is also included, namely how we deal with people and with the issue of intent or gross guilt. And rightly so, I went a little slow at the beginning because those parents made a big impression. Insight into the file is the key question here, and not just because of the GDPR. Everyone has a right of access. You have a right to see, when you're talking to the IRS, what the IRS has on you. How can the Secretary of State ensure that the Tax Administration gives easy access to the entire file, especially when it has significant legal effects for people?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u9	A question to colleague Omtzigt. The committee has been working for years to get information through questions. I'm talking about the Finance Committee. I saw Mr Omtzigt looking at me strangely. The Finance Committee has been trying for years to find out through questions, motions and hearings what has happened, specifically in the CAF 11 case but also wider. This is about, for example, working instructions that can't get loose. That's about: who exactly came up with this? That's about versions of approach, 0.2, 0.3, et cetera. I have the feeling, and many with me, that the bottom stone is not yet above it. Would Mr Omtzigt support the call for a parliamentary questioning on this issue?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u10	I get that question. I asked myself about it once or ten times, just like Mrs Leijten. Mrs Lodders and Mr Azarkan have also asked a single question in this dossier. But at the end of the day, the information in this file has come out. Slightly slower than I had hoped, but that information is there. I must say that the work of the Donner Committee went rather smoothly. We in the Chamber have asked for the ADR to be investigated in which the facts are simply established, because they are not quite there yet. Who made the decision? How did it happen? I ask the Secretary of State if we are going to deal with these precise points when has there been unlawful action? In addition to that ADR study. I find it strange to start a parliamentary questioning at the moment, while the ADR and the Donner Committee are still carrying out further investigations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u11	But the Donner Committee really does not like what Mr Omtzigt says. He's not very busy reconstructing what exactly happened there. In the interim report, she has, in particular, come up with a generous regulation, which, I think, does justice to a great deal of suffering at once, so that people do not have to go there individually, et cetera. But the answer given by the Secretary of State and the Committee remains exactly away from this point. I have good hopes for the study of the ADR, but I also have a feeling for Mr Voermans' suggestion yesterday. With a parliamentary questioning, a sort of parliamentary survey light, you can of course hear officials.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u12	The ADR has received a specific assignment. This specific task includes, for example, the question of when who took a decision and when the official summit and the political summit were aware of these decisions. These seem to me to be key questions that could also be raised at your proposed hearing. That is why I think it makes sense to wait for the ADR at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u13	Finally, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u14	This was one of the questions asked, also in the last series, and that's what the Secretary of State is all about. I am referring to this particular question: when did the political leadership know and when did the administration know about it? He just stays away from that. We can't get an answer to that. I would like to believe that the ADR is investigating it, but I think it is much more sensible that it should go through parliamentary questioning. Then we can just really put that question to the relevant officials.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u15	These questions can also be addressed in the debate today. I was told about a number of CAF 11 cases: we do not give them because they are not so relevant. This while it now seems that last year they were also mentioned in memos from the Tax Administration that were at the top. So I'm very curious when that was known. But to be perfectly honest, after everything that's happened, I'm here today first and foremost to see if we can find a solution for those many parents. Instead of asking here only the question of responsibility who knew when what, I think that compensation for parents who have been wronged is very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u16	That's a fair point. I think that the committee members agree with all of them: first, to do justice to the suffering. The second point, however. These people have been wrongly labeled as fraud for years. And these questions are also relevant to this right: can officials at the Tax Office just do this? Can officials responsible for the Secretary of State and for which a Member of Parliament can question the responsible Secretary of State get away with this? That is also satisfaction, Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u17	That is true, but I have just asked whether a hotline can be set up with people who are somewhat looser from the Tax Administration, where signals can be posted from inside and outside the Tax Administration about people who have not complied with the law, so that it is up to the Secretary of State or the administration to take action against individual officials. The big problem with a parliamentary questioning here is that it would then be the parliament that blames individual civil servants. And I'm very fond of that, I can assure you. So I'm gonna ask that those signals go somewhere and something gets done with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u18	There were a lot of questions in the CDA's contribution. And so we know Mr Omtzigt in recent years: asking a lot of questions. We have also received a lot of answers, partly thanks to him, but those answers clearly show that not the parents were wrong, but the Tax Office. Just in his speech, Mr Omtzigt asked a little bit about whether measures could be taken towards civil servants. But then my question is: who is the boss of this whole service, who is ultimately responsible?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u19	The final representatives of a service are the Minister and the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u20	Does Mr Omtzigt therefore think that if so much has gone wrong, the final person responsible should take political responsibility for what has happened?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u21	It must take political responsibility for the solution. We asked the government for a number of things in July. We've asked to find out what happened. Furthermore, we have given an order to the ADR. We said, "Come up with a compensation arrangement." And the Donner Commission came up with a compensation scheme. The files are being searched right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u22	The CDA says that the Secretary of State must take political responsibility for the solution, but I have also heard Mr Omtzigt say earlier that we should look precisely at what has happened and that we should also be accountable. Why should the Secretary of State not take political responsibility for the past few years in which he was ultimately responsible?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u23	He takes the political responsibility for this, by taking action now. Mr. Chairman. There's got to be something wrong with me. I've been asking questions about this for two years. I've been constantly attacked in the AO's by a number of colleagues: why are you doing this? I'm looking at some right now. There are colleagues who have already tabled one motion of censure. They are now threatening a second, after asking zero questions about how they want to solve this file. They kept asking me what I was doing. I see it as my job as a parliamentarians to continue working until 1 p.m. or 2 p.m., to see what has gone wrong and how I can correct it. That concerns me more than just the question: can we table a motion on something else?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u24	I think it is important in today's debate to look back at what has happened. But I also very much appreciate the fact that Mr Omtzigt also points out that today, too, we must focus on what solutions we are going to offer to the parents and to all those people who are now sitting in the gallery. Mr Omtzig referred to the ruling of the Council of State on 23 October. I think that is a very fundamental statement. He asked some general questions about this to the Secretary of State. How quickly should Mr Omtzigt's statement by the Council of State have implications for the Tax Administration, for implementation and for legislation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u25	This must have an immediate impact on the current policy, i.e. on cases where a whole supplement is recovered on the basis of relatively small errors. You don't have to do that anymore. Furthermore, in my opinion, the Council of State has given 26 weeks to adopt new policies. The Council of State has said that it is up to the tax authorities. I would like to ask the government if it can do this a little faster. However, if I ask for a law to be made within a day, I'm sure it's going to be careless. It must be done quickly and carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u26	That gives more colour to the general remarks made by Mr Omtzigt. I agree with Mr Omtzigt. I do not know whether the policy of the Tax Administration can be changed in one day, but I will also ask questions about this to the Secretary of State. But as far as I'm concerned, it should start at least on 1 January. And I actually think that this legislation should be ready on 1 June. Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u27	I'm sorry, what day?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u28	June 1st. That's about 26 weeks after the Council of State ruling.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u29	Yes, we can also deal with legislation quickly here when it comes to nitrogen, so if it is necessary to introduce this requirement of proportionality with a relatively small intervention, you will find me on your side to do so. However, the interesting thing about the ruling of the Council of State in October is that that ruling appears to have material retroactive effect. The Council of State doesn't often do that. So it is not about the new policy, because it can also be adjusted by means of a policy decision, but it is about how far we go back, how many people it affects and how big it is than the space you can have. You may be wrong about €100, but if you are €1,000 or €2,000 next to it at an extra charge of €4,000, it is a different story. It's still proportional. So I want it to stop now on the basis of small things, but I suspect it will take a few weeks in retrospect to get a good record of how you're going to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u30	That is a justified distinction from Mr Omtzigt, but I actually understood it in such a way that the retroactive effect of the ruling of the Council of State is also a real task for the Donner Commission to consider how that should be shaped. That's right...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u31	I myself have understood it more as an action point for the Secretary of State, because the Secretary of State is about policy. But if he wants an opinion from the Donner Committee by December, I think that is very helpful.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u32	Thank you, Mr. Ommzigt. I now give the floor to Mrs Leijten on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u33	It's an important day today, Mr. Chairman. It is an important day for all those parents who have been wondering for years what they have done wrong, who do not find out why they have been called a fraud and have to pay back these huge sums. Maybe they did it in two years, by borrowing from friends and family. Maybe they've been under payroll for years, and they can't give their kids what they need. It's a really important day today. I want the Secretary of State today to promise to do what he said he was going to do at Nieuwsuur: anyone treated like this by the IRS will get their money back and get compensation. This is not just about CAF matters. The decision was taken in 2009, signed by De Jager. From then on, there are internal notes on how you determine whether someone has made a mistake and whether it is fraudworthy. From then on, there's business. As far as I'm concerned, today's Secretary of State can only say that it's about all those parents. It's about all those parents, and it's about entrepreneurs who got caught. I am afraid that in the fraud investigations, for example, it says literally: we will get that host parent agency, and we will not get it by catching them on something they do themselves, then we will get them through the parents. This can be found not only in the case of CAF 11, but also in other cases. I also do not think it is possible to do so, so let us straight away correct that. Let us say that parents who are victims of fraudulent host agencies or fraudulent childcare centres have to pay everything back. Take on the real fraudsters, not the parents, who have now been victimized twice. Seven minutes of speaking time in a Chamber debate is very long in this Chamber, if it is not legislation, but seven minutes is nothing on a human life destroyed by the decisions of the Tax Administration. The Secretary of State said very humbly: I can never make it up to you. That is not possible, but he can make sure that we clean up at once. I want the Secretary of State to do that today; otherwise we have a big problem. Seven minutes is nothing for people who have seen their children taken away from their youth, whose relationships have ended, who have been forced to move, have no career, suffer from depression. Any story that has entered my hotline or that falls under the CAF 11 or underneath I know a lot of what kind of "kafka teams" is a scandal. All those parents should get that recognition today. Chermaine said it yesterday at EenVandaag: it was hell. That hell has to stop today. No more procedural chatter, no more waiting for committees, not organizing your political task, but intervention. It's been too long. Today we're gonna take care of that. The Secretary of State said I didn't have any signals. I don't understand any of that. In 2010 it was big news in the media that it went wrong with Apple Blossom, a cheating host parents' agency that the parents were victims of. We read that in 2012 employees of the Tax Administration Department said: this is disproportionate. But consultation in the ministries of finance and social affairs leads to nothing. In 2014 it was looked at again: it leads to nothing. In 2016, Asscher, the then Minister for Social Affairs, presented the proposal for direct funding. One of the reasons? The parents are so at risk. In 2017, the Ombudsman presented the report that gave rise to the search by Mr Omtzigt in the first instance and then by others, supported by investigative journalists and a lawyer who stuck to it. But not by the Secretary of State. This Secretary of State is a Secretary of State of always being late, doing something only when there are publications, doing something only when there are parliamentary questions, doing something only when there is a whistleblower, doing something only when he has no other choice. I want that to change today. You know, I went to the IRS with those parents. They just wanted their file. Panic, panic, panic, they weren't allowed in, because yes, you must be a little afraid of your own people. But in the end, we were allowed in and those people would get their file. We've been three weeks and they haven't had anything yet. We were told that other people could either go to a tax office or call the Tax Phone to get their file. It can't be. People must now do so in writing and state what they want to know. They want to know why they're called fraud, Secretary of State! What's with all the procedures to scare people off again? Will you stop training, I'd say? The monster of the Tax Administration knows ICT systems that start recovery again, even though the Secretary of State has said: we stop. Nancy got a letter yesterday saying she's getting a payment arrangement. But she doesn't want a payment system for her "fraud," she wants her justice done. Laila's been told they'd like to re-evaluate her case, but then she won't be able to access the file. A family in the Achterhoek has just been told on Friday that they start with the enforcement, with the recovery of the husband's salary. Why? Detention, gross guilt; you're a fraud. Sensimilia announced last Friday that her reimbursement of health care has been settled again. And the only way you're gonna get it back is if you have very high medical standards. She had expected that she could buy 250 euros for sintering cheese. And again her children get nothing! And then she calls the Tax Phone and you know what she's gonna hear? You're a fraud. You'd better hang up. Mr. Chairman. We still don't know how many people we're talking about. I can't imagine this Secretary of State didn't say, "I'll lock my ministry until we know." How many people are we talking about? Since we do not receive the information we need, I believe that this Chamber should set up a parliamentary inquiry. Not a mini-flash survey, because then we won't be able to claim any documents. We'll get those pieces ourselves if we don't get them from the Secretary of State. And all that frightening stuff, that we had a note made on the criminal side of this case! I don't really understand the fuss. Something's happened here. For years, people have been knowingly and knowingly thrown into the deep shit. No political responsibility was taken the moment you could stop this. There have been officials who loved this, we know from the WOB documents. That institutional bias; yes, you can depoliticize it a little bit, but that is not the intention in this case. The government is supposed to protect people. That didn't happen here. It is not about hundreds of people, it is about thousands of people and perhaps tens of thousands of people. And I ask the Secretary of State what political responsibility he considers to be part of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u34	Thank you very much, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u35	I should have said this at the beginning of the debate, but it is really not the intention of you, in any way, to express your approval or disapproval. I know that's very difficult with such a subject. I hear what you're calling. Of course it affects you. That's what I've been following. But the people's representatives are now on the move, and then it is important to just listen. I now give the floor to Mr Nijboer on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to say a few words about three things. I would like to say something about the suffering caused by the IRS. I have questions about what the Secretary of State himself has done over the past two years to repair or reduce this suffering. Thirdly, I would like to address the question of whether the Tax Office is still in good hands with the Secretary of State. First of all, suffering. This morning, and many other times, we have been able to see how immensely people have been affected by the action of the Tax Administration, how much suffering has been caused, how many misery has been suffered by people. You'll only get a letter from the IRS saying you can pay back €10,000, €20,000. You're scared to death. Your life is upside down. We've been five years, but these people still have no certainty. Houses have been forced to sell. Last week there was a pay check with someone, we heard this morning. It's a hell of a thing these people are going through. The IRS is a service that has a lot of power. She can collect taxes on us. She can force that. She can request information and pay fees, but in this case the Tax Administration has knowingly acted against the law and ruined his people. It was not only in the actual behavior, but also in the attitude: license to disturb, tomorrow it is packing day, the duo pitch and feathers. This behaviour cannot be tolerated at all. People's confidence in our public services, in the UWV and the Tax Office, has been damaged, not only by the trust of the people who received the childcare allowance and have been the victims of it, but by the trust of everyone in the Netherlands. I have referred to this earlier, and my group fully supports this as an abuse of power by the Tax Administration. Does the Secretary of State recognise that there has been abuse of power that has destroyed people's lives? The Secretary of State was not responsible when these matters began, but he does bear political responsibility for the action of the service. How does he feel about that? I come to the second point, the action of the Secretary of State in the last two years. There are a lot of questions about that. As early as March 2017, the Council of State issued a ruling stating that the Tax Administration acted against the law. In August 2017, the Ombudsman called the alarm clock. The question then is: what did the Secretary of State, who took office in October, do with these signals over the past two years? It's a service that acts against the law whose parents have suffered. RTL and Trouw have said that the Chamber has been misled. The Secretary of State has tried to refute this in the media and also in the letters he has sent, but I ask him exactly what happened. What did the official summit after September, after the Ombudsman, know about these cases, about this abuse of power? What did the Secretary of State know and at what point, and what was done with that information? If you know this, then there must be intervention. For precision: the rule 80-20 implies that in 20% of cases parents have been knowingly put into trouble. Compare that with a prison: you accept that 20% is unjustly locked up in prison. That is totally unacceptable and against the law. This was known to the administration. I refer to pages 15 and 16 of the letter sent by the Secretary of State himself. That cannot be accepted. When was that known? When was it known to the Secretary of State himself and acted immediately? If you don't, if you know you're deliberately breaking the law, if you deliberately and knowingly ruin families, then there's no acceptable answer to that. I come to the third point. This concerns the question of whether the State Secretary currently controls the Tax Administration. We are talking today about the 300 parents from Eindhoven, but there are 169 other cases with thousands of parents involved, of which we do not know exactly what happened. But we do know that there are several parents who have similar problems. They don't have an answer yet. A second matter on which we do not yet have any clarity, despite questions from the Chamber, is the matter of ethnic profiling. It is extremely regrettable that this has happened. We don't know if it happened, that's still under investigation, but it's been going on since April of this year. If you're accused of doing something like that, in the long run, you have to have the facts on the table. What's taking so long? The third thing that emerged, last Friday in the letter from the Secretary of State, was that in several areas the Tax Administration broke the law. In the recovery and handling of objections, not only in the case of supplements, but also in the case of tax collection. That was new to me, but that does indicate that new things are constantly emerging from actually unacceptable mistakes made by the Tax Administration, causing people to get into trouble. The question then is: does the Secretary of State have an overview of what is going on and what is the seriousness of all these supplements? But also in a broad sense: Do the Tax Administration comply with its own laws? We must be able to rely on that as people. I would ask the Secretary of State to reply in these three areas: the political responsibility he bears for the matters that began before he took office, the actions of the administration and himself after he had taken office and the so many things that are still going on, the suffering that still exists among people and the uncertainty that they have. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u37	All of Mr Nijboer's justified questions. I would ask him to reflect on one more point. The Donner Committee says that we should look at ourselves as politicians, in the context around and after the Bulgarian fraud of, as I would call it: strict, stricter, strict. My view is that we all share responsibility for this. I wonder how Mr Nijboer looks back on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u38	I had that debate myself at the time. That Bulgarian fraud was, of course, serious. It was serious that you could just apply for fees, give up an address and get a bag of money, and then the IRS couldn't go after it anymore. It was in Bulgaria and you couldn't find the people. That was very serious, but the Chamber never, never gave a consent to say: break the law. Or: get to work with those parents, it doesn't matter if it's one in five. Maybe it's more than one in five, especially in the Eindhoven case. At Dadim, almost everyone was unjustly deprived of the supplement. Of course, we never agreed to that. I never expected an IRS to act against its own laws. That's why the PvdA Group is taking this so hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u39	My group takes this very seriously. The Donner Committee's report shows that, apart from the discontinuation, which really should not have been legal, it is also an accumulation of actions which, on balance, leads to a completely unjust outcome. What I'm wrestling with is this. I was also just looking into the old pieces. Then I see letters of Parliament with texts like: "We are going to act here. I feel supported by the Chamber: no show no money at the counter." That kind of text: 'I feel supported by the Chamber that we need to strike a balance between services and fraud in the fight against fraud'. Read: some things will have to give way, because we want to tackle this fraud so hard. I am now reading those kind of lyrics with abdominal pain, and I was curious to see whether Mr Nijboer was in the same position.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u40	It will always be a balance between fraud, which can play anytime and anywhere, and it will also have to be done. The whole Chamber will find that, even after today, I will also be acting properly towards people who do nothing wrong. That's gotten all the way out of sight here. I did that debate myself. In all honesty: it was more the parties on the right. It was also the Bulgarian fraud. CDA and VVD, who then eagerly wanted to use everything that could. I was not at the forefront of that, because I have also been aware that people are just entitled to child care allowance. Mr Van Weyenberg may remember that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u41	That was my predecessor. I'm not looking forward to pointing to some party here at all, but more to ourselves. I'll point to myself, too. When I see a letter from Asscher and Wiebes with lyrics like "no show, no money," my conclusion is that we in the Chamber have all accepted these letters and have therefore placed a heavy responsibility on ourselves. In doing so, I do not detract from the fact that if people have broken the law, they must be kept firm. I'll ask the Secretary of State about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u42	Nothing conclusive about the fact, you say in a subtlety, that the law has been broken. That is the crux of the matter as far as I am concerned. You can always discuss how much fraud there is and how much you maintain, how hard you act and how many documents you ask for. You can always have a discussion about that and we have been very hard on that in recent years. So are we. I agree. But in a subtlety say that the law has been broken... That is the crux of the matter! Here the law has been broken by the tax authorities and people are completely ruined. That is completely unacceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u43	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to use my speaking time to respond to Mr Van Weyenberg first. I was sitting there and I actually got pissed off about it, just pissed off about what Mr Van Weyenberg is trying to do. It is your Secretary of State, I understand that, and I think it is also very good that Mr Van Weyenberg thinks: I must stand up for that. But it's just a fake trick, Mr. Van Weyenberg, and that doesn't do enough for anyone who's in the room. 'Cause you're actually saying, no show, no money. The difference is that these parents just showed up, that these parents delivered their pieces in time...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u45	...and the IRS said it doesn't work! And I'm just pissed off about that! Because you are actually saying that the referee has to look very closely at politics to see if a violation has been committed. And if there's been a violation, we won't let one run. These parents didn't commit a crime and yet they got a red card!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u46	I'm gonna say something to you anyway. I really know that it is very difficult to follow this debate in the public gallery, given what your experiences are and so on. We've all been able to see and hear and read that. Nevertheless, I appeal to you not to applaud any Member of Parliament. Try to hold back, and I hope that the other parent, who has left, will come back and follow the debate further. Deal? You guys are so quiet. Oh, yeah. Right? No, you really can't say anything. It's very annoying. It's really up to the MPs to say something here, so respect that, too. Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u47	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had just made that request to you. I hope that gentleman will be back in the public gallery soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u48	Yeah, I just said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u49	But on Mr Azarkan's point. The crux of my comment was that we, as politicians with 'no show, no money' and that kind of lyrics, radiate the image that you are just a little harder and wrong people, because you want to tackle fraud. That's exactly what I'm fighting. Mr Azarkan is quite right, Mr President. There are red cards handed out here, and that is actually another understatement for the incredible impact of suffering on all people in the public gallery to people who had done nothing wrong. I totally agree with him on that. I actually hope he knows that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u50	Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am glad that Mr Van Weyenberg has said this, because you can act very hard, but not unjustly. And you can't break the law. No one's allowed to do that, period. I think it is a lot to say in such a debate: yes, but we were all a little responsible. I can't do much with that. I am still too short in politics to understand that. Mr. Chairman. In politics, we make rules that we know will not affect the people here in the room, at least on this side of the room. The more they hit others. This case started for me right after I became a Member of Parliament. I had a group of people visit me at home with a whole file. It was one of the first things I took to myself. I read through that and I thought to myself, "It can't be that bad, can it?" There were allegations that I thought could not be made. I also went to talk to the Secretary of State once, because I felt I should pass that on. So I just took the liberty of saying, "Oh, there are some things here that stink; that case is just not good." Then I'm talking about about about two years ago. Mr. Chairman. In all honesty, I just think that's a good Secretary of State. I'll be honest with you. I think he's a good peer, and I feel like he's doing the work in width with the good intentions too, not just in this case. I am disappointed, however, that we have been two years ahead, when the signals were really clear. I talked to one of those parents, and I want to say something about that. I said, "How are you?" That parent said to me: look, the IRS gave me a one-way ticket to hell and I'm trying to find my way home again. That's so hard, 'cause it's gonna get kicked. You don't know what you're up to. You will first receive a letter stating: you are no longer entitled to child care allowance; it is up to you to prove how to do so. You have no idea what evidence that is, because it's just not mentioned. And when you turn this in, you'll get another letter saying, "The evidence you've provided doesn't satisfy you. It is not enough to grant that supplement. You can no longer provide proof and we will stop your final entitlement to surcharge." Mr. Chairman. Then the next step of demolishing and sending it to hell begins: "Now that you have not shown that you are entitled to a supplement for the past eight months, we assume that you have not been entitled to it in the past two years. So we're going back two years." Mr. Chairman. If you want to apply for the next few years, you will notice that there have been blockades. The Donner Committee has said this very well. Mrs Den Ouden said that. There were three things raised. One: you can no longer enter digitally, but you can use the letter. It's complicated. So that letter was already tricky. The second was that there was much more emphasis, because the parent was seen as a fraud. So it was made impossible for those people to file a new application. Mr. Chairman. People have raised objections. They called and wrote. I talked to people who said, "I just called and I kept calling, but they didn't answer or I didn't get the right person." Desperation strikes: the family, psychological complaints, negativity, stress, divorce, children suffer, frustration. But also shame because you have to go around the family to collect money. I've been there, too. Mr. Chairman. In 2017 it will be very clear for us. The Ombudsman said: "The Tax Administration has put parents through this unsophisticated approach" "which is also such a beautiful euphemism "in an impossible position with great financial problems and uncertainty. This is where the law is broken." That was in 2017. I sincerely wonder why this good peer, this good Secretary of State, is not doing what. Why isn't he doing anything? Why does he let it go? Why does that have to take two years? Why do we need a commission for that? I've said before that if you don't want to act as Secretary of State or Minister yourself, you just set up a committee, because it can do the job for you. He can make the decisions. Mr. Chairman. I welcome the compensation scheme, because there is also good news. For the parents, I welcome the compensation scheme that has been asked for months, years. I also remember having a discussion with the Secretary of State in April of this year. The Secretary of State said, "Yes, €500. Per six months." €500 per six months. Only after the first two years; that was then the compensation. €500 per six months. And we are now suddenly talking about repaying the full corrected amounts of 2012, 2013 and 2014, €500 for the intangible damage per six months and 25% of the corrected amount for the compensation as material damage. Fortunately, there is also compensation for the recovery costs and the costs of legal assistance. That's a good start. I'm happy for the parents. But I think they should also receive a letter, a very large letter, with the text: 'We have called you a fraud for years, we have made life impossible for you, and that was wrong. You are not a fraud and we are deeply sorry." Mr. Chairman. There is another aspect which concerns me a little and which I would like to talk about. This is about the term 'institutional bias'. I find that an interesting term. That's like, as the Secretary of State said, "tunnel vision." Almost every debate I asked him: what makes you not act, you don't get to work, you don't compensate those people, you don't stop the pay claims? The Secretary of State said, "I was in a tunnel vision. I was in it too, just like all the other officials." I wanted to look up this institutional bias. For the first ten hits of Google you see the Tax Administration, because that report is now running. I just want to know. It's actually nothing more and nothing less than partiality. It has nothing to do with the situation at the time, I say to Mr Van Weyenberg. It's just partiality, because there's someone sniffing in front of you that you're thinking, "Well, that might be a fraud. And so it is. And then I'm looking for everything in the evidence to make sure that it is, and I'm holding on to that." My final question to the Secretary of State, because I conclude, is: where did this bias come from? Was that because these people might have different origins? I don't know. Or was that because they had a different name? Or because they might have a different color? I don't know. That's the heart of it for me. Where did this bias come from with these officials to put these groups of people away as a fraud, to persevere, to break the law and thereby to put those people to hell?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u52	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Edgar Mulder on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u53	The IRS has ruined the lives of a lot of people. Hundreds and probably even thousands of families had to deal with the termination of the childcare allowance. It was also necessary to pay back fees previously received. There are examples of people who had to transfer thousands of euros immediately. Supplements stopped, wages were seized and no payment arrangements were possible. The consequences were and are dramatic: debts, relationship problems, divorces and people who have been evicted from their homes. All this on the basis of alleged fraud. Alleged fraud, no proven fraud. Mr. Chairman. The tax authorities have declared ordinary citizens, ordinary parents, fraudsters. No trial, no evidence. Of course, people make mistakes. Organizations make mistakes. The Tax Office employs 30,000 people, and that is where mistakes are made. It happens. But what makes this case so special and so terrible is the fact that when the service found out they were wrong, when officials found out they were wrong, they didn't fix those mistakes, but continued to make life miserable. In the meantime, almost everyone has noticed and also acknowledged that the mistake was not with those parents, with those citizens, but with the service itself. The Ombudsman, the Council of State, the Donner Commission, the service itself: everyone admits that. Even the Secretary of State has, after a long time of hiding, acknowledged that there has been unlawful action by the Tax Administration. The Dutch Tax Administration must be undisputed. The service must be above suspicion. The Netherlands must be able to rely on its officials. Citizens should be able to rely on a fair treatment by the government. This is the Netherlands. So what happened here is unacceptable. The many documents show that this Secretary of State knew for a long time that something had gone wrong. By not intervening, he is now responsible. Responsible for knowingly withholding files. Responsible for refusing to address his official summit. Responsible for continuing the official terror of coercive actions, wage settlements and home expulsions, even until a few months ago. It's not the first time this Secretary of State has done a bad job. His report numbers haven't been so good in recent years. We have had a failed ICT project at the donation and inheritance tax department and a failed attempt to adjust tax on diesel cars, the profit tax of thousands of entrepreneurs was not checked and there was something left with millionaires and hassle with the inheritance tax. And then there is this tragedy of unjustly stopping the childcare allowance. Mr. Chairman. The most important thing today is the people who have fallen victim. An appropriate remuneration must therefore be provided. People need to get the money back and get compensation. This applies to parents, but also to the nanny parents and to everyone who has suffered. The proposal in the Donner report is a first step, but it is no more than a first step. I'd like to close with a question to the Secretary of State. Perhaps I will remove that question from my colleague from D66, who will be speaking in this way, but I would like to put it to you now. After everything that's happened in recent years, does the Secretary of State find himself the right person to really solve this problem? The PVV is curious about the answer from the Secretary of State. But let me be quite honest: for my group, for the PVV, there must be a little miracle today to convince us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u54	Thank you, Mr. Edgar Mulder. I now give the floor to Mr Van Weyenberg on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u55	Mr. Chairman. In the CAF 11 case, all parents involved were seriously deficient. And to this day they experience the very serious and painful consequences. The petition offer this morning hit me, and I know I wasn't the only one. Many of the people involved are currently sitting here in the public gallery. People got into big financial trouble. They had to pay back fees, surcharges were stopped. They were, I say it in my words, mangled into the system. They had to fight a battle that could not be won, a battle in which they were unjustly dismissed and treated as fraud. I understand very well that their trust in the government is gone because of that. Their lives stood still, as was said this morning. Mr. Chairman. So much has gone wrong in this case. And it has also taken too long for it to be recognized and now resolved. The Secretary of State rightly apologized for the summer. And it is right that there is extensive investigation by the Audit Service, and by the Dutch Data Protection Authority to possibly ethnically profile. Mr Azarkan spoke about this. And research was done by the Donner Committee. In doing so, we need to look more broadly, including other CAF cases and other fraud cases. Would the Secretary of State like to look back on the past few years for that? What kind of image does he have left? Which main lessons should we learn and which main lessons should he learn himself? Mr. Chairman. The Donner Committee has recently issued its first report. The Chamber also spoke with the Donner Committee. Fortunately, the report has also been made public. I would like to thank the members of the Donner Committee for their extremely clear report. There's a compensation scheme in there. It had to be, as the Chamber had asked, generous. I think this is a good start and I hope the Secretary of State agrees. He also said that he would implement the compensation scheme in such a way that people would no longer have to sue for that money and no longer have to wait long for it. He has said that they are getting the money quickly and that they should also have the benefit of the doubt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u56	I actually have a question about something about this, because there is still a lot to be said about this compensation scheme. I will certainly ask the Secretary of State about this. Mr Van Weyenberg asked the Secretary of State to give an overview of the lessons to be learned and of the picture he had. But hadn't we asked that before?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u57	Yes. I have seen a lot of answers about this and research is being carried out. But we are looking back in this debate. What happened here? Is justice finally being done to all parents? That is why I think it is right for the Secretary of State to be accountable here in this Chamber. I think it's important for him to tell us what his own image is about it. This has already been done a lot on paper, but I think it is very important that this is done again here by the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u58	I would like to know exactly what Mr Van Weyenberg has seen in recent times. How does he indicate what's happened in recent times? Let us say: from March or perhaps from the July debate. What's his image?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u59	I'm going to say a few more things about that. My image is that there is now finally clarity. We don't have all the reports yet, but at least we have a first report. There should not only be excuses, because we had them before the summer, but there should finally be a compensation scheme. I still have a number of questions about the follow-up steps that I expect from the Secretary of State on that basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u60	Can Mr Van Weyenberg explain to me why we still do not know how many people we are talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u61	The inconvenience that we don't know about this is shared by us, and I think the Secretary of State shares that as well. I think that's because we've picked out this one CAF case so far. We have deliberately said to the Donner Committee and the Audit Service: go wider. I think that was your question, too. I share your impatience, but it must be done carefully, also in order to be able to meet these parents carefully afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u62	I said in my speech that you should not play political hide-and-seek. If you have to make your own decisions, you shouldn't put them with a committee. But what I really don't understand is this. Donner and the ADR can investigate the CAF cases, so they'll know how many there are. How come we don't hear how many there are? That's a problem, isn't it? This is not the way we can play our role as inspectors, is it? I know you're from the same party as the Secretary of State. I appreciate your commitment and your understanding of your position, but the fact that we don't know it and that it doesn't allow us to control and adjust it when necessary is a very serious situation, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u63	That is precisely why, after everything that has happened, it is important that it is precisely sorted out and that it is done independently. I would have liked to have a table here too, so that we knew exactly what we were doing and we could start to do this tomorrow, as far as I am concerned. But the Secretary of State has indicated that he should have this sorted out. We have to go further back. I think you asked the same question yourself. I would have liked that with you. I am also in my role as a Member of Parliament here, by the way. We use other words, but I think we are all very critical of the way things are going.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u64	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u65	I should just like to make one point, namely that it needs to be examined independently. I believe that the only person who can really investigate this independently is the Chamber. Because both Donner, who has a lot of consultation with this Secretary of State and who is not in splendid isolation, in independence, his judgment, and the ADR has to do with what the Tax Administration provides. And that's where the problem lies. The Tax Administration has not delivered much in the past, but has covered it up. So how do we know for sure that these investigations actually give us the outcome that we know: now it's resolved and done, and now we, and especially those parents, can move on?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u66	In particular, I fully agree with Mrs Leijten. I'm assuming the Audit Service gets all the documents and can see everything and look it up. On that basis, it also comes to us. By the way, we are going to have a broader debate in principle on the documents, on Article 68.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u67	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u68	Mr. Chairman. That compensation scheme ensures that people get that money, that they don't have to wait years for it in long-term court cases and that they get the benefit of the doubt. That's good. But I also think it is very good that the compensation system does not rule out the possibility that people who have suffered much more damage can still go to court. Many of my colleagues have mentioned painful examples of this, such as the loss of a job or a home and the very bad effects on health. That step to the judge isn't nothing for people. I would like to ask the Secretary of State what he can and will do to support these people as much as possible. They are suing the government, but the threshold for doing so must be as low as possible and they must be helped to the maximum. Mr. Chairman. The Donner Committee is talking about institutional bias. The cessation was unlawful, rather than the suspension, but, as it is written, it was mainly a succession of actions that did not give people a chance to correct the false perception that they were fraudsters. The Donner Committee itself formulates it as follows. I would like to read it briefly: "The biased manner of CAF 11 research and decision-making is not evident from one or a few acts or decisions. With the exception of the soft termination of the KOT 2014, all steps taken and decisions taken in the investigation were considered in isolation not irregular. The biased approach is contained in the cumulation" "a sum sum of many small steps, actions and decisions detrimental to the parents concerned which were motivated by the assumption" "on the front side" "that there was suspected fraud." Mr. Chairman. If you don't mind me saying one more sentence. With the strict Act of Supplements in hand, it was always possible to search for so long in the handling of people's questions that something was always found that wasn't complete, a document that was missing, and so people were ground up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u69	Specifically at this point of prejudice, which led to all kinds of decisions, succession of decisions, which meant that there was always something to be found to make life miserable, impossible. Where would Mr Van Weyenberg's opinion have this bias come from? Can you tell me about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u70	I'm about to say something about that. So perhaps I can ask Mr Azarkan briefly for patience, because then he can see if that fits his... I think that's a lot of things, so I say right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u71	You stand still, Mr. Azarkan?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u72	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u73	That's good, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u74	The political context did indeed play a role in this. According to the Donner Committee, after the Bulgarian fraud there was an atmosphere of strict, stricter, strictest. Within the Tax Administration, as follows from the report, the feeling prevailed that one should not be too generous again. That remains important for us as well as for politics, regardless of the things in which people have broken the law. That is important, and that is where I come to a conclusion that I am holding up: we also need to look at ourselves. That also brings me to the employees of the Tax Office. Almost all of them do their job to the best of their consciences. That's what I think is important to say. Mrs Klijnsma, one of the members of the Donner Committee, said in the discussion with the House of Representatives, whose report is public: "There were really no people in the Tax Administration who thought: well, let's have fun doing illegal acts; really no. There were implementing rules for these people on the basis of which they tried in their sincerity to translate what they got from politics and from society into those implementing rules. For all government implementing organisations, you should also look in that context at what happened back then." Mr. Chairman. I like looking at ourselves, but it doesn't matter that we have to be sharp with the employees who crossed the line. Words have been mentioned as "packing day." That made a great impression; I noticed it again this morning. That is right and understandable. I expect the Secretary of State to give a serious assessment of any signal of improper conduct, let alone criminal offences. Is the Secretary of State prepared to set up a place where people can report when they feel they have been mistreated by the Tax Office staff? Or if employees in the Tax Office want to expose that? A place that also gives them the confidence that it is independent and that it is looked at very carefully? In addition, of course, and I understand that this has been done, there must always be a report to the Public Prosecutor in the event of criminal offences. Is the Secretary of State also prepared to raise the profile of the Independent Commission on Integrity at the Tax Office, which has recently been made permanent? Because I recently noticed in reports from the FNV that apparently too many people are still unaware of this, while that committee should also play an important role in reducing the purity of the tax administration's behaviour.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u75	You were almost done, weren't you? Then I suggest you finish your contribution first. Then Mr Azarkan will have an opportunity to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u76	Mr President, I have two points to make. We also always talk about the culture within the Tax Administration. And you noticed that when people rang the bell, it was actually too strict and it was "wrapped over them," as the Donner Committee says. How can that be better? How can we increase the scope for that contradiction? I would also like to ask the following question on this point. At the end of 2014, early 2015, the Ministries of Finance and Social Affairs said to each other: this is too severe for people. That was talked about, that would be reported at the top, but that is "watered, evaporated," as Donner said in the conversation with us. If that had happened, four years earlier, the conclusion reached by the Council of State on 23 October had not been reached. I think that is a painful observation. I would like to know again how it could have evaporated back then. Because the impact of that has been huge. Finally, Mr President. We also need to look at the legislation. Since 23 October, has this less stringent enforcement been applied in accordance with the opinion, so that a small mistake does not lead to the total loss of surcharges? Does the Secretary of State share my view that we should incorporate this into new legislation as soon as possible, so that there is no doubt about it anymore? As far as I am concerned, we must also fundamentally move away from the surcharge system, because it creates uncertainty, too much money through people's wallets, recovery, debt and major problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u77	Thank you. Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u78	It is specifically the point of discontinuation rather than suspension. To put it quite simply: if you suspend, you still retain the claim; if you stop, you lose that claim. The Donner Committee has now shown that there are also parents who say: the Tax Administration is pushing me, I am running into someone else, and then the Tax Administration says that I have committed an offence. In other words, the act of the Tax Administration has ensured that they have subsequently committed an illegality, which means that they had no right. How does Mr Van Weyenberg feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u79	That's Kafka, Chairman. That's Kafka, because then what happens? We have extended this example quite extensively in the conversation with Mr Donner. You were not there for reasons that I understand and respect, but you saw the report. Mr Donner said the following. An average of one month or two was considered in individual cases. It should have been done in the beginning. That was the unlawfulness. A group of parents has been said: nothing is wrong, but you have not paid for a number of months because of that, and that is reason in itself to say that it is not right. Mr. Chairman. I think that's Kafka. This really shows that this should never have happened like this. That is precisely why the compensation scheme is particularly appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u80	And then connect to the point that has already been made a few times in debates under the guise "politically responsible; we have put pressure on". I want us to stay away from that. I will say it one more time to Mr Van Weyenberg. I just can't imagine. There's a person standing in front of you applying for a child care allowance. The political pressure is then so that you think it will be a fraud. That happens because they agree in The Hague that you have to be strict. I think it is said from a political point of view, especially at that time: be very strict when it comes to people who want to take advantage of the situation and want to have money from the community. But when Mrs. Fatma, Mr. Mehmet and Mr. Van Weyenberg come here, isn't it true that people say, "Hey, wait a minute, that's a fraud, I'm gonna do everything I can to prove it?" Surely that cannot be explained by the fact that you mention it, that it was the spirit of the time, and by the fact that we have exerted pressure from the political point of view?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u81	That cannot be explained in the sense that that is absolutely not the only thing that was going on here. The example you mention is simply in violation of the law. We're very brief about that. I think it is important to say the following. At the same time, the Donner Committee said that this was in a context. I quoted what Mrs Klijnsma said about it, in which the whole mindset was pushed into the service, who listened to debates. That doesn't justify all the injustices. It is not at all what I intend to do with it, but I do say that it also means that we have to look at ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u82	I think we're getting a little closer. Of course, it is never a reason for civil servants to break the law and say 'you must have done something', just as you do not tell an agent to be very strict and that he can just randomly arrest people and say: you must have done something. That's what happened here. Then you're gonna find out and you're gonna figure things out, and you're gonna find out that that person might have done something. You go through that and you make him five, six, seven years of life miserable. That can never be the intention of politics, can it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u83	No, but that's not the point I'm trying to make either. Because there's never an excuse for acting against the law. You can't do that. You can see that a lot of those statements actually lasted quite long, even legally. Only those people were wronged with what happened at the same time: they were always looked at with a glance from the assumption "they must be fraudsters."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u84	No, Mr. Azarkan. You're not getting the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u85	So I think it would be a good idea to mention how the spirit of the time was, how it ended up in decisions and how it ended up in the mindset, such as 'not once again the Bulgarian fraud in such a service', where I follow the line of the Donner Committee. It's relevant to look at that as well. I'm not saying that to justify acting against the law. I do not do that in any way; no misunderstandings about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u86	No, Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u87	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u88	No... Shut down? Well, let's go.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u89	Yes, closing chairman. We have seen here in evidence that the general law on administrative law was then violated. If people objected, it was handled as an intel request. I've worked in the government for almost six years. We just didn't, that wasn't done. Booking an objection as an information request is just against the rules. The fact that objection procedures sometimes take two years...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u90	You are absolutely right, I fully agree with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u91	You're all in agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u92	It just can't be!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u93	You agree, Mr. Azarkan. I'm going to see Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u94	I have been surprised by Mr Donner's report in many respects. I did not attend that conversation because it was confidential, but I would have liked to ask him one question, which I am now asking Mr Van Weyenberg. Mr Van Weyenberg rightly points out that the method of action and recovery was disproportionate. When exactly was that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u95	Exactly? If I understand the report correctly, it was said at the end of 2014: "Is this not very disproportionate? We may win lawsuits, but is this what we have to do?" That was four years ago, and that is exactly the painful conclusion that prompted the Secretary of State to ask how that could be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u96	Donner would have given the answer "I designate 2012 as the moment when it is detected," and let that have been for Bulgarian fraud.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u97	Sure, sure. That's not the only thing I mentioned either. It was the spirit of time, we had the Rutte I cabinet. I was a civil servant back then. Combating fraud was a very dominant theme, very broad. One of the things I warn you about, including our own work, is this. If I, for example, as a member of the Social Affairs Committee, see what has become popularly called 'Poland fraud', then we really must be careful to reword tough texts and to take tough measures and ask those in power to do so, because in such contexts too, the good guys should not suffer from evil. Because that's exactly what these people have been done to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u98	D66 does this all the time. GroenLinks is about to do it, I'm sure. That's the spider from the Ministry: the Chamber wanted this. That's not true. We still have the decision of June 1, 2009 from then Secretary of State De Jager. He made the decision to pay an administrative fine: refund. It says very clearly that the tax authorities must state that you are a fraud. So you're saying, Mrs. Arib, you're a fraud. But then you have to prove it, too. That's exactly not what was done here. That's because of the internal work instructions. They said: you can accuse people of intent or gross guilt; you can file a good file because then we can win the trial. But they forgot to arrange internally that you have to prove it. That took place before the Bulgarian fraud. The Bulgarian fraud may have led to an enormous amount of gas on it: even harder, even more. But it's pre-Bulgarian fraud and beyond. It's a working method since 2009.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u99	I think that's what I said. I said that in the years before Bulgarian fraud, there was an increasing focus on the fight against fraud. "No one should ever get away with fraud anywhere" was a broad part of the social and political debate. Mrs Leijten is absolutely right, and I think I said this myself, that the whole approach was always: these people must be fraudsters. With the Supplements Act and with the working instructions in hand, that was maintained, until the judge. The threshold for people to prove otherwise was so high that the fight with the Tax Administration could not be won. I totally agree with her. I know that with my warning not to go any further, even in future cases, Mrs Leijten and her party colleagues, for example in the Committee on Social Affairs, I am on my side. We all know that if something goes wrong, there is a political tendency to be strict, stricter, stricter and less aware of the fact that the good people may suffer from it. We need to be alert to that every moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u100	I think you should be tough on fraud. I just think you should prove someone's a fraud. That's what the law says, and that's what it says in the decision, but it wasn't in the procedure. And that's where it went wrong. And then blaming the Chamber, I really think it's a little too low.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u101	I didn't. Mrs Leijten knows that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u102	Mr. Azarkan, you've had a lot of time. One last question? Yes. Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u103	One aspect has bewildered me. On the one hand, things seem to have gone wrong without purpose. Things have gone wrong, wrong decisions have been made. That could happen, et cetera. The law has been broken, but it can happen. Well, in the cases before the judge, there have been deliberately and knowingly withheld documents. That has also been demonstrated. Doesn't it seem that people knew that they were wrong, but wanted to maintain their own right, that they manipulated them so that documents were withheld in the case, so that parents didn't have a fair chance in court? The judge then still pronounces himself in favour of the government, while those parents have not had a fair chance at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u104	I agree with Mr Azarkan that parents have not been given a fair chance in this whole process. That started with the treatment, and it went on until the courtroom. I've seen a lot of answers from the Secretary of State about the flow of documents to the state's attorney. As far as I am concerned, people have never had the chance, not only there, but throughout the entire journey, because they had to jump through impregnable hoops to prove that they were not a fraud. So I also share the criticism of the course of justice with Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u105	Okay. Do you agree, Mr. Azarkan?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u106	Oh, yeah. So it's not something that happened by accident. It was purposeful. It was purposely the same in one's own. The people were put away in advance as a fraud. That was sustained, even until the time of the trial by holding back pieces.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u107	The Donner Committee says that there was not even a button in the system to suspend; if only they had stopped. But the crux, at the heart of the word 'institutional bias', is exactly what Mr Azarkan says: acting from the point of view of 'they must be fraudsters'. That's why people have never had a fair chance to prove otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u108	Thank you, Mr. Van Weyenberg. I now give the floor to Mr Snels on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u109	Mr. Chairman. Years of uncertainty, towering debts, losing the job, being sent from the locker to the wall, not knowing what you're up to: the consequences of government action for people are unforgivingly harsh. Without compassion, without human measure and without evidence, people have been seen and treated as fraudsters. This morning, when we offered the petition, we saw the despair in people's eyes, and the tears. The Donner Committee said that there was institutional bias. The Tax Administration made major mistakes: unlawful termination of surcharges, unclear communication of necessary information, exceed time limits. This was embedded in a political context in which the fight against fraud was given priority over the proper and legitimate treatment of people. Due to the very strict laws and regulations, this policy was also often and for a long time endorsed by case law. Mr. Chairman. If Mr Omtzigt hadn't started asking questions about the Ombudsman's report two years ago, in his characteristic and persistent manner, I don't think we would have been about to compensate people and adapt the laws and regulations. He deserves recognition and appreciation for that. Mrs Leijten later joined. But there's a difference in the way we look at this case. We have had a bright debate on this before the summer. Mr Omtzigt remembers that. For me, it's not just about the tax authorities' mistakes. It is also about the political context, the responsibility that we and our predecessors have in the Chamber and in previous cabinets for building a supplementing system and for cutting, pruning and cutting fraud policies. This system, this policy, which is built on its own responsibility and sees people as potential fraudsters, is bankrupt. The supplement system is not feasible, inhuman and untenable. Actually, this makes me even more angry and desperate. I wish it were just some of the tax authorities' mistakes. Then a solution was much easier. Politics has reacted incredibly hard and quickly with legislation and implementation as a result of Bulgarian fraud and has seen terribly slowly what terrible consequences this has had for people. In 2005 and 2006, politics introduced the surcharge system rashly, toughly and quickly when it came to tackling fraud in 2013 and 2014, and reacted laxly and slowly when it turned out that we had put innocent people in great trouble. We should learn lessons from that. Mrs Leijten spoke earlier about a parliamentary survey. I think it would be more obvious, for example by means of a parliamentary questioning, to examine precisely that political responsibility. Soon, after the reports that are coming, we'll know all about how things went wrong with the Tax Office, but we'll wash our political hands in innocence. I do not think that is the right balance. But we will first have to wait for the reports of the ADR, the Dutch Data Protection Authority and Donner.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u110	I wonder why GroenLinks has to wait for those reports. Donner said it: institutional bias. Parents were outlaws. The government did not protect the citizens, but attacked them, attacked them and plunged them into deep misery. Shouldn't that be politically responsible?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u111	This interim opinion of the Donner Committee is really only about CAF 11. That is only a very limited matter for a limited group of people. We are still getting the ADR report and the real advice from the Donner Committee. They're about an even bigger group. In my opinion, it is incredibly important to know exactly what has actually happened in recent years and to know how we deal with all those people who have been affected by the action of the Tax Administration. I think it is important that this research is carried out independently and that we wait for the results.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u112	Those investigations by Donner and the ADR are not independent. Bullshit. These are done on the basis of the data provided by the Tax Administration. The IRS that didn't intervene when things went wrong. The Tax Office, whose employees say: hello, should we now take note that we must act with integrity; what does this mean for those responsible for the summit? I find it incredible that GroenLinks wants to wait while there is a statement that there was institutional bias. People were outlaws. It also happened to many more people. This includes political responsibility, doesn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u113	Of course, we are going to draw conclusions based on this debate and on what happened in this CAF 11 case. But I think that this would really, really, wrong all the work that is being done to get all the information out of the table. We now have such a stack of reports, of information. It's gotta come up. We need to know what happened. We need to know how the responsibility lies there. We need to know what the political and legal context was. Only then can we really see what happened. That's one. Two: what I really think is most important for today's debate is that we need to find a solution for those people. That is what this debate is for. We now have a compensation scheme so that we can correct the injustice that has been done to people. That needs to be regulated by law. That is the debate we are having today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u114	Mr Omtzigt has done a great deal, I have done a lot, but I have not seen you. Let's be honest. Maybe that'll help me see how big this case is. At the SP hotline, a thousand people have reported and they all have a story to get goosebumps and tears in your eyes. Then say that you can't draw any conclusions yet, then wait again for an established investigation to dive politically: I think it's actually insufferable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u115	I think the conclusions of the Donner Committee were very harsh. Big mistakes have been made by the tax authorities for this group of people sitting here in the bleachers. Tough as shit. That means we're gonna have to compensate. That also means that we need to think about what that means for a much larger group of people. Because it's not about 300 people, but maybe thousands of people. It is at the forefront of this debate for me how we are now finding a solution for all those people who have been duped by the Tax Administration in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u116	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u117	That is why this debate is important. It's a big day. The Secretary of State will have to admit that for all people, not just the people among those fraud teams. But I am getting a bone in my throat that is said here: we need more information and more information. Do you know how many times and how much specific information has already been requested? And now to say that we are waiting for independent research that is not independent and then continue to suspend your political judgment, I find frankly a bit of cowardly politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u118	Carry on, Mr. Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u119	I think the ADR, the Donner Committee and the Personal Data Authority are investigating. I was then the first to ask for a debate on these signals. I have been involved in making sure that we get that question to the ADR as sharp as possible. These investigations are carried out in complete independence. And yes, it's true: all that information has to come from the IRS. We've got such a pile of that by now. We can't do that without the help of the Ministry. But the conclusions, what it means and the overview of what happened, we have those independent committees for that. I'll wait for that too. Mr. Chairman. What lessons does the Secretary of State draw? How does he see the relationship between the faults of the service and the political and legal context? How does the Secretary of State look at the fact that neither the implementation nor the political arena have picked up signals that ultimately turn out to be inhumane? Why did we need the Ombudsman, the twist of case law in the Council of State and the more general criticism of, for example, the Court of Auditors or the WRR, in order to understand that fraud policy has been derailed from the surcharges? Concrete questions about how we're going to proceed now. The first is about compensation for the victims. The Donner Committee deliberately opted for an arrangement whereby if in their individual case the damage is higher than the compensation, people would be free to have it determined by a judge. I think this is wise, but I would like to ask the Secretary of State not only to tell those people that they can go to court but also to think about how we can help them to get their rights. I think this is important for restoring public confidence in people. Not facing people, but standing next to them. I'd like a response. I would also like to explain how quickly the legislation is ready as a legal basis for compensation and whether it has been designed in such a way that, after the entry of, for example, the Donner Commission, which can be applied more broadly. We will soon have a more fundamental debate on the future of the supplement system, but we do not have a new system, for example, with free childcare, which eliminates the misery of the childcare allowance, from today to tomorrow. At the same time, the ruling of the Council of State of 23 October gives us an urgent mandate: within 26 weeks, implementation must take into account, as I say, human measure, proportionality in the effects on people and give people more legal protection. The urgency is great, the pace is necessary. Can the Secretary of State indicate whether he can send a letter before Christmas, i.e. within two weeks, on how to adjust the implementation of the Tax Office and with what timetable the law can be relaxed? As far as I am concerned, the policy adjustment at the service will take effect from 1 January, if possible earlier, and the law will be amended and completed by 1 June. Is that feasible? Finally, Mr President. I already talked about how slow we react to signals, when policies and laws and regulations lead to unjust, inhuman outcomes for people. That is a broader question, but it starts with implementation, in this case with the Tax Administration. Within the service, a lot of work is being done to improve culture. Then it is about making mistakes discussable, about integrity questions and about the possibilities for whistleblowers. That is what Mr Omtzigt talked about. This is all about a culture that ensures a policy that is tailored to the human dimension and is serviceable, and about an organisation that people are proud to work for. But there is also the need for concrete contradiction to unreasonable laws and regulations, and the need to pick up, report and make available undesirable effects of political policy to the public and political debate. Will the Secretary of State make a proposal on how such contradiction could be orchestrated by the Tax Administration?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u120	Thank you. I'd like to suspend for three minutes. Then we continue with Mr Van Otterloo. I think it's his turn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u121	I give the floor to Mr Van Otterloo on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u122	Mr. Chairman. Last July, now five months ago, we had a debate on the surcharges. According to the head of the Volkskrant, the Secretary of State went deep through the dust. The headline was: "Diep through the dust Menno Snel in summer: compensation for all the victims of the supplement." The article begins as follows: "Menno Snel, Secretary of State for Finance, knew what he had to do this afternoon. A bloodthirsty opposition demanded a humble apology from him. And they came. "The way it happened, the way it handled the parents... That's not possible," said Quickly. "People have been wronged. Human size is lost in sight. They just looked at the law, never at customization or how it works out. There was some kind of tunnel vision at the IRS. And to me. I too have for too long assumed that we were right.'" Well, we are five months away and, as far as we are concerned, the Secretary of State has still not emerged from the dust. On the contrary, we believe that the dust has become even more muddy, because we are not making enough progress. At that time, I asked for compensation to be quickly paid to the victims of this policy of the Tax Administration. We have also suggested that you consider it a civil liability, because if you do another damage, you have to pay. No, the wait was for an arrangement. So, what's next? The law has not been kept, the law has not been looked at, no, it is much worse: the law has been acted against, there has been unlawful action. We have already talked about that at the time, but these people have been in trouble for years and our discussions on how to set up a rightful facility to compensate them are of little use. Those people must be helped; we owe that to them. What about the IRS? For the record, I have only taken seven more motions on the Tax Administration and its implementation. I am not going to table these motions, because they have all been tabled here, partly by my predecessor Martin van Rooijen. Some of them have been signed Chamberwide. Those motions didn't help. That is usually the effect of motions, let me add, because a motion is a ruling from the Chamber and then it is only a question of whether the government is implementing them. These motions had a very serious common thread: the question whether the Tax Administration itself was out of control and not functioning properly. What do we see here, also looking at the Donner Committee's report? The citizens expect the tax authorities to make fair payments to citizens and to do so as fairly as possible. But what does it turn out to be? The Tax Administration maintains its own standards, which are contrary to the law, to the General Administrative Law Act, which grants citizens the right to object and obtain their rights. This right is now being deprived of citizens by the Tax Administration. A tax administration that considers citizens to be an enemy that consists of all fraudsters, which you need to catch as much as possible. A tax administration that holds ethnic profile. You can find anything about the climate, about Bulgarian fraud or not, but that's too lame an excuse for your misdeeds. At the same time, I would like to say that the misery did not begin when this Secretary of State took office. The trouble was already in the IRS back then. We should also look at the VVD-duo WW, Weekers-Wiebes, who is responsible for the derailment in this way, that policy rules could be drawn up with wrong instructions in it. What we can throw at this Secretary of State is that he protects the service too much on the autopilot and communicates too little with the Chamber. We've been getting very little information and we've had to ask a lot of questions. These questions are then partly parked again, because they are being investigated or because we as a Chamber cannot get to them because they are the subject of policy consultation. This raises the suspicion that the Secretary of State does not want to open things up. If that is the case, the Secretary of State is in conflict with his duty to inform the Chamber. If he doesn't give enough information, he cuts himself in the fingers. We are therefore very critical in this respect. Mr. Chairman. I told you, there's nothing in this file like you think from the start. You're thinking, the IRS has to make sure that we all pay according to carrying capacity. You wouldn't expect D66 to cover ethnic profiles. You would also expect a lot of warning words about big data. But nowhere in this file do I find considerations about big data. This is also an example of how information is handled to look for things that are wrong. And I think that's exactly the wrong way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u123	Very briefly, though. When the report came about possible ethnic profiling, Mr Snels was just ahead of me with a debate request. I have tabled motions to find out, to act against and to inform the Chamber as soon as possible, because I find that unacceptable. Mr President, this is a bit for the record.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u124	Then you have made this point clear. I propose that Mr Van Otterloo continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u125	But I must also say that I had expected tougher words in the direction of the Tax Office, and in the direction of the responsible State Secretary. But I'd like to go a little wider. We work with a system of surcharges. Proposals have been made to make it less dependent and to finance more as a provision. Those proposals were launched last year. I would ask you to look at that again. I would ask that compensation be paid as soon as possible. We believe that the autumn note should set aside money to implement the subsidy scheme, as proposed, and we believe that it should not only apply to CAF 11 cases, but that all those affected by the unlawful act should be compensated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u126	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u127	Mr. Chairman. The task of the government as a servant of God is to do justice and protect citizens from arbitrariness. In this task, Mr President, the government has failed deeply. All previous speakers have already referred to the dramatic circumstances in which parents have fallen due to the actions of a ruthless tax administration. The stories we've heard in recent years are poignant. Last week, a woman contacted me. In 2014 a recovery of €50,000; phone calls, letters and objections, nothing was done; payroll; years of misery. Her husband has tried several times to rob himself of life. He's in the psychiatrist's office right now because of the chance of a repeat. Even in the last year, warrants came in. And last Wednesday, last week, this lady came home from work, and again there were four payrolls on the mat. She's out of her mind. It's unbelievable how much effort it takes to stop this. It's unbelievable how far the government is away from the citizen. The message from this lady is exemplary for the whole system of surcharges and shows that this complex system is far beyond the capacity of citizens. Another family I'm in contact with has to live out of €200 a month, because the tax administration doesn't respect the premium-free foot. The family's trying to catch up by borrowing money. But that too is immediately removed by the Tax Administration via bank attachment. How can I ask the Secretary of State? Does the Secretary of State agree with me that this should not exist and that there is still a great deal of work to be done?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u128	Before you go any further, there is a question from Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u129	It is right that Mr Bruins is talking about people who are going through this. But those warrants that fell on the mat last Wednesday, didn't the Secretary of State promise he'd paused? Can you explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u130	I can't explain that. I don't know the details of this case either. I don't know if it's about a CAF case either. But what I see is that here still an inconspicuous Tax Administration continues to send letters to people who are now really just lying in the shit. And I find that unimaginable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u131	Maybe that's where the problem is. In the debate, the Secretary of State said, when we demanded that this coercive action be stopped, "I will put a stop to all the charges that have to do with coercive action. I will pause them all until we have the second report from the Donner Committee and that from the ADR on the table." I have the stenogram in my pieces. Yesterday in replying to my parliamentary questions yesterday, the Secretary of State said: no, we only stopped people around the CAF. But that wasn't his promise. We know that outside the fraud investigation teams they are called CAF teams, but there is nothing we can do about that; yes, we can also call them Kafka teams. But just when you're a fraud, you don't get a payment settlement and you're going to recover it until you've paid back the money. That is what the families of Mr Bruins are experiencing. They have been declared fraud because of intent and gross negligence, so they have not stopped there now. Is that now in line with the Secretary of State's undertaking?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u132	Thank you for this interruption, because this is indeed important. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State whether this is in line with what he has now promised and whether this is possible or not, both for the first case I was talking about, there are again envelopes on the floor and for the second case in which the attachment-free foot is not respected. It's two families that are really in the wrinkles. I want to know whether that is possible or whether the Secretary of State believes that this is possible and whether it is in line with the commitments he has made. I would like to thank Mrs Leijten on this point. This brings me to the fact that I would like to congratulate colleagues in the Chamber, as well as the journalists above and beyond, on their perseverance. However, I find it worrying to note that without close cooperation between the media and Parliament, this Chamber has neither the strength nor the means to get the bottom line. Apparently, something has to become a scandal in the media before a government agency comes to its senses. That says something about the Ministry, but also about all of us, as we are here. I wonder what we should do about it. The Donner Committee concludes institutional bias. Institutions don't exist, but people do. There's always people's responsibility. Those are people in charge, people in charge. I read that pieces have been withheld in court cases, but a system doesn't. The point is that multiple people work together like this, organize something so that this can happen. The Secretary of State was aware that things had to be better, but he dragged a long time before he began to correct the mistakes of the past. Does he think that he has acted sufficiently decisively when it comes to repairing the suffering caused by the system and the bias observed?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u133	A good story from Mr Bruins. Specifically on the part, prior to where he is now, namely that the information does not come up until action is taken from the media, through WOB requests or through the ongoing long-term search and search. Only then will the relevant information come to Parliament. It also makes me look at my own responsibility. Why can't we do that? Now, in this dossier, which we have been following for years and which has been the subject of questions for years, the bottom stone has not emerged. Would it be a good thing, as suggested by Mr Leijten and myself, that in a parliamentary questioning we simply get the facts out of hand? That we do not leave that to journalists, but carry that responsibility ourselves?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u134	I will come back to that later in my contribution. In September, the Christian Union and the CDA proposed to conduct a parliamentary investigation into the functioning of the Tax Administration and the UWV. So I think it's very important that we look at the system as a whole. We need to see how a government can crush people like that. I think it is very important that we look at that together. Because here, basically, something is wrong in our society. Mr. Chairman. In June, the Secretary of State mentioned his tunnel vision. If that tunnel vision is gone now, I'll ask the Secretary of State. Is there a contradiction now organized? Are people who open their mouths cherished instead of fired? Is the Secretary of State capable of separating the chaff from the wheat now? Finally, I want to keep a mirror in front of all of us. A supplement scheme was devised in 2007, which did not function from the outset. Politics has only made the system more complicated over the years and has done nothing with the signals given by the Tax Administration. Supplements had to be paid, without prior checking. But in 2014 it sounded in this Chamber: the Secretary of State must do everything, fraud must be dealt with. That's what it sounded like then, and we knew it. But the law and the rules must never be broken, not even under political pressure. Mr. Chairman. Checking afterwards led to large-scale fraud. Stopping after control led to great human drama and suffering, within hundreds or even thousands of families. If pre-checking leads to misery and if post-checking leads to misery, we should not all conclude that the supplement system is bankrupt, I ask the Secretary of State. For the Christian Union, it is clear that a simple and fair tax system is needed in the shortest possible time. A tax system where the tax rate reflects what you pay and where you don't have to struggle through a forest of surcharges and discounts. The system is too complicated. Our tax authorities can't handle it anymore, and as a citizen, you certainly don't understand. As long as the tax system does not undergo a thorough review and simplification, as long as that huge money-circle pump circus does not stop, we will continue to express our indignation in this Chamber year after year at the tragedies that the political and its executive services themselves are contributing to. The parents in the CAF 11 case were crushed by wrong decisions in a system moloch. A system that has been ruined by a government that is so far removed from the citizen and lacks any kind of humanity and human measure. You're a number, a case, a form, but not a person anymore. We've created a government that distrusts people in advance. We have created a policy that no longer tolerates mistakes and believe that everything can be made with more and more rules. My hope lies with the people who work in the system: the staff of the Tax Administration and colleagues here in the Chamber, who work with a just and merciful attitude in the service of the public cause. Because whatever you sow, you reap. It is therefore important that we, the House of Representatives, also discuss the question of how to proceed. It is good that, at the request of Christian Union and CDA, that parliamentary investigation into the functioning of the Tax Administration and the UWV, as I have already mentioned, is started. The compensation scheme recommended by the Donner Committee eases the pain, but does not remove the suffering suffered. The CAF 11 case shows that at this time citizens are afraid of the government. If legal certainty and legal protection against government decisions are abolished, our society will lose ground.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u135	Thank you, Mr. Bruins. I now give the floor to the Stoffer on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u136	Mr. Chairman. Something really went wrong. Dutch citizens have been hit hard by the government and we simply cannot reverse that suffering. The questions that are central to me today are these. How is justice done to those parents and children who have been so hard hit by the government? How do you get a cultural change from the Tax Office? And how did the Secretary of State act? The childcare allowance has already been discussed very often. A lot of documents, documents, letters and questions came along. I think it is right to congratulate Mr Omtzigt, because that is what happened, because he started it and because he maintained it. Mr. Chairman. We must not forget that behind all these letters and numbers are just people. It's about families and families with children. They are the ones who are suffering the terrible consequences of all these problems. We have just heard it from all our colleagues: more and more stories are coming out. Families must repay thousands, tens of thousands of euros, possibly wrongly. Parents are portrayed as fraudsters, and children notice the consequences, because their parents no longer have money for those things that can just make life better. Families are pursued for years by the Tax Administration with all kinds of coercive actions. Parents just sometimes can't pay the rent anymore. These lingering problems surrounding the childcare allowance are hitting people hard. I sincerely hope that good solutions will be found for these people as soon as possible. My question to the Secretary of State is therefore: how is justice done to these parents and children, who have been so severely affected by the government? Mr. Chairman. In March this year, the Secretary of State said that he had no signals that in other CAF cases the same way of acting was used as in the CAF 11 case. But when I look at the evaluation of those CAF cases, I notice something. Because the figures in the CAF 11 case and the number of discontinuations of surcharges in that CAF 11 case do not seem to be exceptions. In the other CAF cases, the evaluation also mentions high levels of discontinuation. My question is: was the Secretary of State aware of the evaluations on 21 March? And if so, what does the Secretary of State base his remark that he had no signs of a wider problem? On the basis of the evaluations, does the State Secretary conclude that there are signs that other CAF cases have also been dealt with as in the CAF 11 case? Mr. Chairman. On 14 November, the Advisory Committee on Implementation Supplements published a report. One day later, on 15 November, the Secretary of State suddenly knew that there may be 9,000 more cases where something is wrong. In fact, according to the Secretary of State, there's a good chance. My question is: how does the Secretary of State arrive at these conclusions, on the basis of what data? That can't be just on the basis of the report of the advisory committee on 14 November, can it? Before that, the Council of State and also the Ombudsman had already had strong criticism of the course of action in the CAF 11 case. My question to the Secretary of State is very clear: how is it that there were no signals in March and that there is now a good chance that in other cases there has been an error? The report "Overcomingly appointed by colleagues in previous contributions " shows that there is institutional bias in the Tax Administration. Quite a lot has to be done to get that human size back on track. How is the Secretary of State going to make this change? What concrete steps have already been taken? But, and I say that over the head of the Secretary of State also to the officials, it can't only happen because of the man who's here in box K. I come from such an official service myself, and I understand very well what it's like. You apply rules well and then you think you're doing it perfectly. But in the meantime, you do create a society where people just really get under the wheels. I say to those officials, just look in the mirror every night and wonder if you've applied the human measure, or if you've just applied the rules correctly. What official has just been visiting the people sitting here in the gallery and has heard what is the result of the steps he is taking? I'm just saying, any official can make a difference any day. Mr. Chairman. I'll come to a conclusion. I told you, a lot of documents have been sent to the Chamber, but I really do have questions about how that happened. Sometimes these pieces only came after repeated questions from the Chamber or it seemed that pieces came to the Chamber in response to media revelations. My question to the Secretary of State is: how do you look back on this provision of information to the Chamber? Is it really always timely and fully informed? I would like a very clear answer from the Secretary of State to these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u137	That was a very clear statement with very sharp questions, for which I am grateful. I would like to ask Mr Stoffer of the SGP. If you see that the government that has been tasked with protecting people has been attacking people here for years, dumping them and dumping them in the misery, you said it better, doesn't that include political responsibility? How does the SGP see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u138	I don't know. That is the first question the Secretary of State will answer shortly. I fully understand what you are saying: if a motion of censure is tabled later, do you support it or not? Well, I'm sure that question will come back to that. I always say you open up a debate like that. I've put down clear and sharp questions. I want a good answer to that. And on the back, the Secretary of State makes an assessment and we, too, as a group, make an assessment. So I just don't have an answer to that right now, because I, too, will never go into a debate biasedly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u139	No, I don't mean that way. I didn't mean what motion you support or not. For example, we have had debates here with former Minister Hennis on the issue of defective equipment in the defence sector. After she had given explanations and a statement to the Chamber, she said: I do accept my political responsibility. This has happened in many more situations; even very recently by Mr Harbers for wrong information. This is about thousands of families, years. I was just wondering if there was a motion for a resolution or if the SGP considered that this included political responsibility in a certain way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u140	I don't think so at the moment. Depending on how the debate is going to proceed, I am confident that this Secretary of State is one of the best people who can handle the misery that is currently taking place and shape this cultural change with the Tax Office. People are asking me how I feel about that and not what anyone else thinks about it. I think that, if that is indeed the emboss and the commitment of this Secretary of State, he should remain seated and above all ensure that it is resolved.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u141	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u142	I asked the question mainly because Mr Stoffer was so keen on whether we did get the information and the Secretary of State was on top of it. I think these questions are justified; I have asked them myself. That is precisely why I am asking whether this issue is not large enough to assume political responsibility, but you have given your answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u143	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u144	Thank you, Mr President. Lives have been ruined, destroyed, without explanation. Without a fair chance of defense, childcare allowances were suddenly discontinued and recovered up to years. Parents were thrown into deep misery. On average, they had to repay thousands of euros, but also tens of thousands of euros. I talked to a lot of duped this morning. They are also sitting in the gallery today. Someone even had to pay back over a ton. That's inhumane. They were labeled and labeled as fraud without being able to defend themselves properly and provide evidence of their innocence. These parents were all these years, until today, completely without a chance against the powerful Tax Administration. Their salary has been and is being taken away today, it is being seized, jobs have been cancelled, houses have been emptied, marriages and relationships have been disrupted. Children who suffer terribly from their parents' stress and financial problems, no holidays, no presents, sometimes no food. From a small point of view, they know nothing but that there is poverty in the family, shame, distress. No money to go to the hospital. I spoke to a mother this morning, a gentle woman who was in tears. A lot of MPs didn't keep it dry and I certainly didn't. She's a kidney patient, waiting for a donor kidney. She had to cancel the appointment because she didn't have the money to go to the hospital. A strong woman, fighting to get her life back, fighting for her child. But no matter how hard people fight, IRS seems to be omnipotent. The IRS decides on people's lives. People's lives that stand still for years. People have completely lost confidence in government, politics and, in some cases, even in people in general, because of officials and this Secretary of State. What's it supposed to feel like if you're being thrown away by a government agency as a fraud, but you don't know why? That you have to prove your own innocence and drag the government back to see how you struggle? That you are being ethnically profiled, is the presumption, because the gut feeling of politics has its impact on the humanity of the civil servants? Institutional bias. Strict, tighter, tighter. Mr. Chairman. As Mr Omtzigt, Mrs Leijten and Mr Azarkan, passionate colleagues have been pulling everything out of the box for years. They show true representatives of the people. A lot of respect for that. I therefore wholeheartedly support their argument. I am not here as a financial expert, I am not a member of the Finance Committee, but I am here as a Member of Parliament, representing all the people who are watching this debate today and wondering whether there is still a sense of responsibility. Last week the news came out that a coalition partner wants to investigate the possibilities of a criminal investigation. A parliamentary interrogation is also suggested. I will wholeheartedly support all the initiatives in this direction, because all these people deserve, in addition to excuses and generous compensation, real justice at last. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u145	Thank you, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. I now give the floor to Mrs Lodders on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u146	Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about a serious form of government failure. For a small 300 parents in the CAF 11 case, life for years was a big nightmare that caused people a lot of pain and sorrow. We have heard more about this this morning, prior to this debate. Earlier, the word "abuse" has been used to describe the suffering that has been done to these people. That is a solid qualification, but, as far as I am concerned, it is justified. It took a long time for the facts to be on the table, but the Donner Committee has done a good job. Thank you for that. The committee notes that these people have been treated with so-called institutional bias. That sounds chic, but it simply means that these people's trust in the government has been damaged, because there has been no kind of justice. Parents were treated like frauds just because their name was in the wrong box. Mr. Chairman. Fraud must always be dealt with. This debate is not going to change that. But this case is a series of shortcomings and irregularities that have led parents to a serious situation. My group therefore fully supports the outcome of the Donner Committee. This suffering of the parents must be made right, if we are already able to do so. Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the most important thing. What exactly is going to happen to and for these parents? This question also applies, of course, to the host parents and the host parents' agencies. The committee has delivered an opinion on a compensation scheme. My group believes that generous compensation for all the suffering that has been done must be the starting point. Does the Secretary of State find this compensation generous? How far has he gone with the preparations for paying out this compensation? For example: do people have the amount in their bank account before Christmas? And it's a compensation scheme. Perhaps, therefore, the most important question is whether the Secretary of State can confirm that the payment and/or adoption of this compensation scheme cannot or will not in any way interfere with the course of justice for these people. Mr Van Weyenberg asked how we can support these people in the course of justice if they decide to do so. I agree with that question. Signals have been ignored for years. What's wrong with the Tax Administration that even such signals, such serious signals don't come out? And what does it say about the culture and attitude of the Tax Administration? Does the Secretary of State want to reflect on this? Mr. Chairman. After several signals, the Secretary of State started working. Can he indicate whether progress has actually been made at the service? 'Cause it took a long time to get those signals. It took a long time before the Tax Administration realised that the method of enforcement was not lawful. And how is it that an official summit could seem to keep the Secretary of State out of sight for so long? Mr. Chairman. The provision of information on this issue seems to be abundant. But at the same time, there has been a hint of withholding pieces. The Chamber has repeatedly asked for relevant documents and information. The Court must have at its disposal documents which it considers necessary in order to assess what is going on. The slowness with which the information is given does not contribute to this. The Secretary of State has repeatedly stated that it was not his intention either. Until last week, the Chamber had to ask for evaluations, and it had to ask for the documents to be made public. Where does this attitude and this slowness come from? My appeal to the Secretary of State is: be transparent and prevent it may not be entirely possible to create an image of shadowiness in the media over and over again. I am certainly asking for that, because every new article and every news about this is a blow to the face of these parents. All the information must be on the table, and the parents' problems must be solved. Is the Secretary of State prepared to take a step in this respect as well? We're talking about the CAF 11 case today. That's not the only case. A number of spokesmen have also referred to this. Last week, the Secretary of State sent to the Chamber the evaluations of the other CAF cases. Will the Secretary of State confirm that the Audit Service has all these documents and that the service will also give an explanation of these documents in its opinion? And is the Secretary of State prepared to give his explanation of that accompanying letter as well? Actually, he's already agreed to that. Mr. Chairman. I would like to say that, of course, there are a lot of people working at the Tax Office who are simply driven and passionate about doing their job there. This includes a safe working environment where people can and dare to address each other. My group is concerned about the culture within the service. Is the working environment sufficiently safe for these people? And what does the Secretary of State do to create a safe environment? I have often asked for a firm commitment to a cultural change within that Tax Administration. Is the Secretary of State willing to bring eyes in from the outside? He has already said that he also wants to give the cultural aspect a separate position. This is actually a supplementary question in that regard. I want to keep an eye on the progress of a number of measures needed to improve that culture. Mr. Chairman. I am particularly shocked by the fact that this issue has been going on for years. Can the Secretary of State reflect on the image that the official summit knew of this unlawful approach? This has also been raised by several colleagues. Not the people were addressed or addressed, people did not address each other, but the whistleblower was addressed. We have also discussed this with each other before. Even then, we said that this is the reverse world. I would like to hear how the Secretary of State looks back on this with the current state of affairs and what steps he is taking to do this differently. Can the Secretary of State confirm that those who can be held responsible will also be addressed? Mr. Chairman. Officials who do their jobs also make mistakes. That's human. When making mistakes should be corrected, but when making mistakes turns into a trail of irregularities or crossing the rules, we are talking about something else. The Secretary of State is at the bar to act in this and he is working on it. But my group is becoming critical of the so-called General Administrative Service, a service in which officials operate from a certain scale. This service allows officials to move from one department to another. Moreover, the concern is broader than just the Tax Administration. Top officials who make serious mistakes and maintain them should not be brought back to another place via the ABD. My group would like to see an investigation into the functioning of the ABD on this point. Is there sufficient critical capacity in the service and sufficient account being taken of the functioning of the relevant officials? Mr. Chairman. My group also wants to look at the future. This debate makes it painfully clear that our system of surcharges is complex and complex. As far as my group is concerned, this system has had its longest time. The VVD considers the pumping of surcharges fundamentally wrong. Is the Secretary of State prepared to see if there are any short-term steps to be taken? A number of steps have already been taken in the long term. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna finish what I started. In my own parliamentary work, this issue is perhaps one of the most poignant examples of how government action leads to the loss of trust in the service and the government. I hope that after today we can take the step forward together. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u147	It's a big day today. I agree with Mrs Lodders. It's about trust in politics, the Secretary of State and the Tax Administration. I would therefore like to return to a point of criticism by Mrs Lodders of the VVD about the Secretary of State, namely the evaluations that have been carried out. In March we held a debate in which we asked for these evaluations. In July we had a debate in which we asked for those evaluations. We asked Chamber questions, we called him one more time, we reminded him of those parliamentary questions, but we didn't get those evaluations until last week. How does Mrs. Lodders suggest that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u148	I have already indicated in my speech that information that is requested must also be provided. It is a pity that we have had to ask so many times. We are all having this debate. I know Mrs Leijten and Mr Azarkan well. We are having this debate with each other for the parents involved. We want a solution for those parents. If there's a hint of information being withheld, it's not good. That is also why I participated in the written questions last week to ask: come forward with these evaluations. I am not going to go into that today, as I say to Mrs Leijten. The only question I have on this is: are these assessments in the ADR so that they too can be involved in the investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u149	I also know that Mrs Lodders always supports us when we say that we want information to be able to do our controlling work properly. That's good. You have to do the same as a representative of the people, no matter what party you are. But what struck me in the letter when we received those evaluations is that the Secretary of State said that they were on my desk in March, but I only read them today. There's eight months in between. Eight months! Mrs Lodders, what does that say about the sense of urgency with the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u150	If I look at the information we have had in the last few months, in the past year, these are really files full. I think you yourself have asked a number of questions to the Secretary of State about the consideration he has made. I'm curious about his reaction to that. But what is most important to me and why I supported these requests for information is that we want to know what is going on. That hunch of withholding information shouldn't arise. Once again, that is important for our parliamentary work, but that is certainly important for the parents who get a slap in the face with every article or new fact, as I have already said. So let's try to avoid that. That's my call, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u151	I agree. If it is to be resolved, the following is also widely shared. I do not think I need to ask Mrs Lodders whether we should look outside this CAF case. I think she's saying, "No, you have to look at everyone who's been treated like that." But what matters to me is that today we are asking ourselves whether the Secretary of State is the one who can do the same. The Chamber has asked for the evaluations, so they are apparently politically desirable. If they were at the Secretary of State's office in March and he said in November when he sent the letter "I only read them today," what does that say about the sense of urgency in resolving cases or the involvement of the Secretary of State in resolving these cases?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u152	I think I said what I said. With regard to the urgency of resolving matters, I would add that steps have been taken in recent months. Let's not leave that under-exposed either. One of the most important questions in my contribution was: what about the compensation scheme? How far along is the Secretary of State with that? I hope that during this debate the Secretary of State will indicate that he is now further than the last time I have heard anything about this. Because these are steps that have been taken; I would like to emphasise that here too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u153	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u154	Finally. I find it significant that you leave something eight months unopened on your desk, while there's political pressure, while there's writing about it, while there's big dramas. What I am particularly sorry about is that we still do not know how many parents we are talking about. I've never seen so many handkerchiefs passed on here, so much sadness felt in the room. Yeah, maybe in the debates on Groningen, because that's just as bad a thing as that. I do not think it is possible for us to ask for information and still do not have it. Doesn't Mrs. Lodder, like me, want to know today how many people we're talking about? Shouldn't a service be able to pull out of the systems in six months?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u155	We have asked for a great deal of information and we have received a great deal of information. I have said what is necessary about the way in which this has happened. Today, in this debate, I am particularly concerned that we should stand alongside these parents in the hope that we will be able to alleviate somewhat the suffering that has been caused to them, because it cannot be removed. Lives are ruined. You yourself have collected a lot of poignant stories with your blackbook and hotline. I've also spoken to some parents, host parents. This morning I listened with chills to the poem that has been recited. It is horrible, and I think that is why we are here today in this Chamber, we as representatives of the people and the Secretary of State are responsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u156	Mr Lodders of the VVD spoke in her contribution about 'irregularities' and 'faults'. In the AO of 4 July, Mrs Lodders also used other words. Mr Omtzigt, Mrs Leijten, the undersigned and many others did so. She said, "There are many laws broken here." I think she is talking about the General Law on Administrative Law, the General Law on Income-Related Schemes and the General Law on Childcare Payment. At least they've been broken. Is that supposed to have consequences? Should you be punished if you break the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u157	What I said on 4 July has just been quoted by Mr Azarkan. I have confirmed this once again in my speech today by saying that I support the conclusions of the Donner Committee, and this is also mentioned. Today we have to make sure that I have just told Mrs Leijten that we are going to stand next to the parents and work on a solution. That is my response to Mr Azarkan's question. I'm not here to create political ax day or anything like that. I'd like to work on a solution now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u158	No, but I'm still taking my job seriously. The point is that the actions of officials within the Tax Administration have contributed to the fact that people have lived in hell for five or six years. Divorces, wages, sometimes no food, debt relief: their lives were turned upside down. That's what people did. I'm a member of a small party, so I'm also on the Justice and Security Committee. I speak to colleagues from the VVD. Those are tough when it comes to people and citizens who break the law. Tough as shit. You're gonna have to be tough on that one. If they earn even €10 extra, you have to take the benefit. If they're misbehaving on the streets, they're going to have to be punished for that. This is where civil servants have for years broken the law and withheld documents. They sent people into the woods and made it impossible for them. I say to Mrs Lodders, do you have the same approach? Do you think that there are at least consequences of breaking the law, including by officials, and not just by citizens?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u159	In my speech I asked a number of questions about officials in the direction of the Secretary of State. I assume the Secretary of State will respond shortly. It is not that I have left that underexposed, quite the contrary, I would like to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u160	Thank you, Mrs Lodders. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van Raan on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u161	Mr. Chairman. This morning, just before the start of this debate, we, as Members of Parliament, once again gained a profound insight into the misery that a government can cause. Once again, we saw what it means to people when they are ground between the jaws of a public authority. We heard the stories of people who have been plunged into such a deep valley by the action of the Tax Administration that it is perfectly understandable that at some point they are losing all hope. Parents have been haunted by the government for years. Parents have been labeled as fraud for years. Parents have been financially destroyed by the actions of our own Tax Administration. That is unjustified and in some cases unlawful, the Council of State ruled. Mr. Chairman. That is a terrifying reversal of the basis of our legal system. The basis is that you're innocent until proven guilty. Here's what's turned around: you're guilty until you prove otherwise. Evidence of the contrary has been made impossible in many cases. My first question to the Secretary of State: does he agree with this analysis? Mr. Chairman. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank my fellow Members who, sometimes for years, have done everything possible to get the bottom line, particularly Mr Omtzigt and Mr Leijten. The role of the press, as Mr Bruins pointed out, has also proved indispensable. Mr. Chairman. The Animal Party was shocked when we read how the Tax Office talks about people sitting here in the stands. "Package Day." That is a word that may be used by a corporal student association, but it is not a word that fits the responsibility to decide whether or not to destroy citizens of this country. Are there any other departments in the government that do this kind of language and thereby demonstrate the inability to bear this very heavy responsibility? Mr. Chairman. We as a chamber also fit modesty. Today I would like to express the hope and wish that politics will take account of the fact that statements made here are also seen and read by officials. As Members of Parliament, it gives us a responsibility to carefully choose the terms we use here. Let us at least agree that a Tax Service or any other government agency can never see the words coming from this Chamber as a licence to act in a way that has happened in this case. Mr. Chairman. The Party for Animals wants to hear from the Secretary of State what he's going to do to compensate all parents fairly and when he's going to do so. We join the SP, which sets the starting point for 2009. Mr. Chairman. The speakers before me spoke of 'a little light at the end of the tunnel'. That seems to us as a Party of Animals to be inadequate. Yes, there are still investigations to be carried out and yes, there are still investigations to be completed and an independent committee has to be set up. But if you don't mind me saying, "What's the big deal?" There is enough that can be done now. For example, I assume that the SP with its hotline has more than enough information for the Secretary of State to intervene directly, but also that the Secretary of State himself has more than enough information to resume compensation, pay compensation and remove the label "frauder" from the files. Mr President, I will conclude. Nine parents also made an appeal to the Prime Minister yesterday in the Algemeen Dagblad. That seems to us to be a very reasonable call. That call was: Prime Minister, talk to us, get over the excuses, get over the bridge with fair and just compensation. The Animal Party wants to pass this request on to the Prime Minister through the Secretary of State. Can Mark Rutte at least talk to the parents? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. This is not about a little light at the end of the tunnel. It's about the acute demolition of the tunnel, in the light of day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u162	Thank you, Mr. Van Raan. That also brings us to the end of the first term of office. We've got a half-hour suspension. I'm gonna take a look at the Secretary of State. Is there a need for a slightly longer suspension? I don't understand. Then we'll suspend until 1.20 p.m. Then we have a short settlement and we will continue this debate around 13.30. Mr. Overzigt?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u163	Mr. Chairman. Since a number of parents have requested this, I would like to talk to them together with a few other MPs. Maybe that's what the Secretary of State wants. A slightly longer suspension would therefore be desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u164	What are you suggesting?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u165	An arrangement at 13:35 p.m., and this will continue at 1:45 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-04-tweedekamer-3.u166	At 1:45 p.m. is fine as far as I'm concerned, if that's okay with everyone. That's the case. Then I'll suspend the meeting until 1:45 p.m.
