ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u1	We will continue with the debate on the General Financial Reviews, Roompiece IXA and IXB. Yesterday we had the first term on the side of the Chamber. Today it is up to the Minister of Finance and the Secretary of State for Finance to answer the questions asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u2	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u3	Madam President, thank you. It is an honor and a pleasure to discuss with your Chamber today the "note on the state of the country's finances." And no, I won't do that in archaic Dutch, like on Prince's Day. The cabinet has worked on a Millions note in which it works both on the well-being and prosperity of today's Dutch people as well as those of the next generations. I very much look forward to discussing this with the members of your Chamber today. I would like to thank the Members of your Chamber very much for the very broad approach route, and also for the fine comparisons about young fathers, crows and ships that are somewhat in the wind. I'll see at a later moment what I let strike at myself and what I leave for the reflections of others. I would also like to thank the Chamber for its constructive, positive-critical tone. Because I am well aware that parties want to take the cabinet very seriously on all kinds of issues. That's the way it's supposed to be. At the same time, I have also tasted the fact that there seems to be a positive basic position on the budget for many too. Mr President, you have already asked me that is a dialogue that I recognize in how many blocks I want to serve the answers. That's also where the question of some talk is always hidden behind it. The blocks I would like to handle are: public finances and the economy; expenditure; income; the investment fund; the relatively wide tray "other'. The Secretary of State will, of course, be responsible for taxation. He will also answer one or two questions about the landlord tax. He will perhaps also deal briefly with a few separate issues. Mr. Chairman. I shall begin with the subject of public finances and the economy. Public finances are in good shape. 2019 is expected to be the fourth year in a row with a budget surplus. That is what we hope to achieve again next year, in other words by 2020. We expect the debt to fall below 50% by the end of this year. This is positive but also fits perfectly within the Dutch system, in which we build buffers, precisely because our small, very open economy is very volatile, partly because of the international dimension. To answer a first question straight away, last week in the public debate it was about a surplus of 14 billion. That came by yesterday, too. I would like to put that in perspective, because Mr Van Dijck and a few others referred to it. That's not a structural amount. Those are income and expenses, and that was about what you could call a "broken financial year." It was about the first half of 2019. If we look at the whole of 2019, we expect to reach an amount of between 10 and 11 billion. By the way, there is a lot of under-utilisation in that too. Mr Slootweg and Mr Sneller asked a lot of questions about the Agency's cash management, building on last week's debate. I have a lot of lyrics about that in front of me. I am going to try to give the short version of that, but I thought that this might also lend itself to a letter. Basically, the Agency manages the sovereign debt and cash management on my behalf. This means managing daily incoming and outgoing flows. There are days in the year, for example at the end of a quarter, as on 30 June, that there is more cash flow than there is being paid out. That is, for example, when there is a lot of tax revenue on that day. What the Agency then does is that it is also wise to temporarily park those excess funds somewhere. This can be done, for example, in the case of DNB, with a maximum amount of just over 8 billion. The Agency must inform De Nederlandsche Bank in advance, so that this can also be taken into account. The State can also lend cash surpluses briefly to highly creditworthy market participants. By "very short," I mean until the next day. It's called overnight. This goes towards fellow governments, if they are sufficiently creditworthy, or market players in the Netherlands or outside the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. Mr Slootweg asked about the division of that cash position and the expulsions. I cannot make any announcements about specific individual market players. I can say that at the end of June the Agency had a total of a small 7 billion temporarily in the Netherlands and abroad, of which 3 billion in the form of deposits. Most of them were held by foreign parties in France and Germany, including highly creditworthy banks and local authorities. The remaining 17% was placed in the Netherlands. Of course, it all sounds very exciting. Again, I would very much like to put it on paper, but this kind of cash management activity is common practice and takes place in order not to have that money in an account when it is prudent. That is what the Agency's cash management is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u4	Yes, I know; I've seen you, Mr. Slootweg, but I just got Mr. Tony van Dijck a little...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u5	Sent back.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u6	Sent back, looked away.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u7	Then I'll go on with a lot of enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u8	It was a little non-verbal, but I think it's okay if you finish this part first. Then there is every opportunity to interrupt, if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u9	I thought I had finished the piece on cash management within the public finances block, but then, encouraged by you, I will move on quickly with the provinces and the negative interest rates, because that is what Mr Slootweg asked for. That is in line with this question. To reassure you, as Mr Slootweg knows, local authorities receive interest on money held by the Treasury. That is the so-called borrowing interest of the State; I think he recognizes that. At the time when the interest paid by the State is negative, the interest received by local authorities shall be equal to zero. That's the deal set out in the Treasury Banking Scheme. Mr Slootweg and Mr Sneller both asked me about another subject, namely the shock test of public finances. First of all, thank you for that question, because I think that this is really a relevant question, certainly given the comments I made in the Millions note: on the one hand, it still looks pretty good for the Netherlands compared to abroad, but many risks, such as the Brexit and the trade wars, are downhill. It is therefore essential to make this as clear as possible, and of course we all know that previous crises have almost always attacked us to a lesser or more degree. So it's all the more important to do this. That is also why the shock test has been published every four years since 2011. The last time was at the 2019 Millions Note. The idea of doing it already with the Navy's note seems to me to be very rugged. I also think that this is practically simply not feasible, but I do understand the need not to wait another four years. So if I may come back to that with both the questioners... Then I come back to the question of what frequency it is and perhaps there are also different modalities that you could use. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the trend of fiscal policy, which has also been the subject of many comments. That is, of course, a very relevant discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u10	A brief question from Mr Tony van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u11	The minister starts with the main block. It would be strange, of course, if we could only do one interruption on that very important block.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u12	No, it's not like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u13	I'd like to talk about banking abroad, which the minister does. The municipalities seem to be able to dispose of it at 0% with treasury banking. These are all privileges that do not apply to the banks. They are obliged to deposit overnight their money at the ECB, where they get negative interest rates and, as I understand it, they have to pay 500 million, which ultimately returns to the consumer. These privileges do not apply to pension funds either. Those too are obliged to deposit overnight their money there at a negative interest rate. Why the discrimination?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u14	That might be very short. I am going to say, of course, in the 'other' block, the necessary things about pensions and the negative interest rate on savings. By the way, last week, but then with another colleague of the PVV Group, we had a wide-ranging exchange of views on why there are really undesirable elements to this negative savings rate and about that outside, from the political point of view, intervention is also quite far-reaching. I believe that the Chamber and I have come to an agreement on this, at least that was my conclusion that this deserves rapid and good research, that this deserves a quick and good dialogue with the banks and that this also deserves a comparison of what is actually happening and not abroad. That's how I feel about meeting with the Chamber. So I would also like to continue along that route. So I'm just gonna frontload what I wanted to say about it in a later block.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u15	That's not my question. I'm not talking about the negative savings rate. I am talking about the difference in treatment with regard to the banks. They are obliged to deposit their money overnight with the ECB, at a negative interest rate, which is determined by the ECB itself. That is a earning model for the European Central Bank, which takes 500 million from the Dutch banks and a few billion from the French and German banks. So the ECB is laughing at itself. It sets a negative interest rate and obliges all banks to deposit overnight the money there. And what does this finance minister do with his 7 billion he happens to have left over? He puts that away at a positive interest rate, at a German bank or a French bank. Well, you can. So why should the Dutch banks be leading the ECB with this negative interest rate and all its consequences, and can this minister freewheel on the capital market with a positive interest rate?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u16	I see that Mr Van Dijck himself is laughing at his question. But I'm gonna chop it up anyway. I don't think he disagrees that I'm using the opportunity to move that money somewhere else. I have understood Mr Sneller's and Mr Slootweg's questions in such a way: what is happening and how is it justified? I understand that question very well. I don't think there was a very negative connotation, but that's how I understood the question. And I understand that question too; I think it makes sense. I do not think Mr Van Dijck's potential criticism is going to work. In my view, his criticism is of what the ECB requires or does not require banks to do. Once again, though not through the negative savings rate, we have become involved in the policy of the ECB. I know the views of the PVV Group on this policy. The PVV Group also knows that I think it is very good that finance ministers do not talk about the ECB's policy. I didn't do that last week, and I'm not gonna do that today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u17	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u18	Mr. Chairman. This brings me to the trend of fiscal policy. I would like to dwell on that discussion. The Council of State has already said a few things about it. There are also several parties in the Chamber who have said something about it. The Council of State and the Planning Bureau have already indicated in the government agreement that the government is pursuing a pro-cyclical fiscal policy. By the way, if you look back, the irony is that despite everything we do with automatic stabilisers, despite the fact that we are trying very hard to do something about it, in my opinion 80% of the time I think that there was a state in the Millions' Note of two or three years ago that our policy is, to a lesser or more degree, procyclical. Mr Stoffer asked about it. Mr. Slootweg asked about it. I would like to add that the Council of State itself said, I think, six months ago, that it would also be nice if the cabinet were to ease the burden. You'll be back in the classic catch-22. We are trying to reconcile three things here. One: we are trying to ensure very substantial investment in society, from defence to education, from climate to pensions. Two, we're trying to reduce the burden. In my view, there was a very broad desire to reduce the burden more. Three: no unreasonably large debt shifting to the next generation. We're in that palette. In it, you have to make choices that are sometimes complicated. I believe, and I continue to believe, that a trendary fiscal policy is extremely important, especially for a country like the Netherlands. So that's exactly what we're going through with. At the same time, I think it is prudent and sensible that the Cabinet should consider it obvious to incur additional costs for matters such as a pension agreement, involving major social interests, and a Climate Agreement, which also involves major social interests, if it can really do something for society. In the first case, there was no money reserved for it in the coalition agreement. In the second case, it was limited money, 300 million structuralally. The alternative would have been to fit it in. It would have been at the expense of one of the other things that we have included in the budget. I didn't think that was wise myself. I do not think that would have been the start of a political majority either. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to say a few words about this. I think you can do this kind of framework correction right with this type of great movement. In order to reassure Mr Stoffer, I will maintain my usual lack of enthusiasm for motions that may continue in this direction. That'll appeal to him. I also really think that we have a task with each other to continue along these lines. But all things considered, I thought the balance was sensible. Moreover, this has happened more often in the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u19	Were you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u20	I saw someone sneaking up in my corner of the eye, so I thought, "I'm sure there's something sensible asked." But I like to talk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u21	Then I'm going to see Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u22	I acknowledge immediately that has also been shown over the past few decades that it is very difficult to cut back in times of high economic growth and, vice versa, to invest extra in times of low economic growth. However, that is wise; so does the Minister. Why hasn't an analysis been made on how to do that better? The Minister says that in very exceptional cases he adjusts the frameworks. But it is five times in one year: how exceptional is that? This year alone, there are already five framework corrections, five major exceptional events. As far as I am concerned, it is not very credible that there are five such major events that make this necessary. But my question is much more: how do you make sure you don't spend all your money if it goes very well and have to cut extra costs if it goes badly?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u23	I am very grateful to Mr Nijboer for his last remark, which puts his comments yesterday so clearly in perspective. That is exactly the kind of discussion we have to have with each other. I see this as an encouragement not to spend more money than we already spend. That's one. Then the second, about Mr. Nijboer's somewhat cryptic and perhaps some creepy introduction. Let's take a look back. The previous cabinet, Mr Nijboer, was then in the Lower House, and I in the First Chamber included a 5 billion reduction in the budget. That is an obvious exception to the system. That is what I thought, and in my view the majority of Parliament, was sensible, given the stage in which we found ourselves. But that was an exception which, on the revenue side, is considerably greater than what we are doing now. That's very recent. There was no reform against it. That does put the venom of the discussion about the system in perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u24	Finally...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u25	With the latter I am not focusing on Mr Nijboer, but rather on the breadth.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u26	I'm not evil at all. I told you, it's been a problem for the last few decades. It happens all the time. Only, I had hoped and expected this minister would not say that Mr. Nijboer no longer wants to spend. The PvdA wants to spend more, on educational salaries, on the housing shortage in the country and on the social problems we have. But I expect the Minister of Finance not only to say that trendary fiscal policy is important, but also to act on it and have an idea. I do not believe that this has been sufficiently highlighted in the Millions Note. The CPB and the Council of State have been pointing this out for years. For the long term, this is important for budgetary policy and its credibility. That's what the PvdA cares about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u27	I also have the need to put that in perspective. I very much agree with Mr Nijboer how important it is for all of us to have anchors, even if you want to push them in exceptional cases, for the medium and long term. That, of course, is precisely the reason why, in the first year, when there have been endless questions about whether we could not still spend some extra money, I pointed out precisely that system, also in the knowledge that we would have two very large agreements to conclude. That's what we were hoping. Of course, we didn't know at the time if it would work, but it was likely to cost money. That is precisely why I have had a broader view of what interest rates mean as a percentage of expenditure. We have historically focused very much on debt as a percentage of GDP. That is a relevant measure, also European. But I also think it makes sense to see what interest rates are doing, long-term, as a percentage of the budget. I want to continue with that myself, and I think it would also be wise if my successors continued to do so. That makes sense because at the moment we are talking about around 5 billion on a budget of order size of 300 billion. When Minister Ruding stood here, it was a budget of two thirds of that size, perhaps even less, and interest charges of 15 billion. So that's a relevant fact. The extent to which this interest rate has replaced other expenditure has simply decreased.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u28	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u29	Following on from this discussion, Mr Slootweg was right to ask about the discussion on collective burdens. As he knows, that is not something the cabinet actively sends to. I think that this summer's interventions certainly show us something of a positive turn of events. However, let us be quite honest: see also the questions by Mr Sneller, Mrs De Vries and others about healthcare expenditure. That must, of course, be a point of attention to all of us. Because we all want it. We all want lower burdens and massive spending in society. That is what I want to do too, and we do not want to transfer accounts. But it is not possible for all three to do so if you know the economic growth we are now experiencing. In my opinion, I would have contented Mr Stoffer by saying to him that there is no change of course. Mr Stoffer, Mr Sneller and Mr Slootweg also asked what the desired level of debt was. I agree with much of what Mr Nijboer said, but the trend in budgetary policy is not trying to make a point landing. This is different in other countries, but they also have a different system and a different economy. The Baltic States, of course, did not exist a few decades ago and were not guilty at all. So they've had a very different starting position. In addition, they have a population of around 1 million, 2 million and 3 million. I am jealous of the Scandinavian countries on the one hand, but on the other hand, the volatility there is certainly not smaller and they have very large social security arrangements. So they have yet again, driven by the economic situation, outliers in the budget in the long run. I therefore think that the system that we have is broadly sensible. I am also, of course, looking at the 43% of what Stoffer referred to before the crisis, but at the same time that is not a sacred goal, also because the interest charges are even by 49%, 48% or 47% as a percentage of the budget significantly lower than the 43% of Wouter Bos.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u30	The minister all mentions relevant variables why in the Netherlands you should or could strive for a different percentage than in Scandinavia and the Baltic states, but he does not answer the question why there would be no point estimate in the Netherlands for that reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u31	I think it is wise not to be close to that 60% in periods of economic boom. I think most of them agree with us. Certainly Mr Sneller, Mr Slootweg and Mr Stoffer are of that line, at least that is how I understood them. So we're migrating from a little under 60% at the beginning of this cabinet period to below 50%, I think, wisely, because that gives us breathing space that we're probably going to need somewhere in the next decade. Whether 42% is ultimately better than 44%, or whether you should be aiming for 40% or 35%, I find that to be arbitrary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u32	Yes, from 42% to 44% is arbitrary but at 35% or 44% you start to have an interesting substantive discussion about what is appropriate for the Netherlands in view of our economy and the deviations in the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u33	But maybe we should do it this way, because I understand that question, of course. I have been raised in this logic for eight years now, so I also understand why we are taking the power of the system out of these automatic stabilisers and precisely that trend with big ups when it goes economically well and therefore a budget going down and vice versa. But since I also understand the question, I would like to ask a sensible economic body, independently of myself, to analyse whether you should move further into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u34	Then I'll go to Mr. Slootweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u35	That was actually more than half a commitment, so I think it should now also be cashed by Mr Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u36	Yes, Mr Sneller has the second term for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u37	That was my suggestion, because I do need it myself. A number of things mentioned by the Minister who applies to Scandinavia also apply to the Netherlands. In my view, we also have a very nice social security arrangement, to which the Council of State also refers. So I do need one of those studies. In addition, I can imagine that you are also looking at the pension assets that we have, which, in my opinion, are different from those in Scandinavian countries, for example. So it is not so much a point that we have to go to that 25%, but I do need the analysis. I hope the Minister will send it to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u38	So let me say that con amore, because I also recognize the inspiration behind the question of the three questioners I mentioned, while the fourth S is now on the table which could just say the same thing. So let me just say that, because I also think it helps us in the discussion I'm going to say a lot about the fund about low interest rates, relatively limited economic growth in the Netherlands and an ageing society. So I say this to the questioners.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u39	Thanks for all the sharpness. It is obvious, of course, that the Study Group on Budgets is going to make a statement on this. We really want us to have been able to conduct the political debate on public debt before the study group on the budget area comes to a conclusion. I'd like to make that distinction here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u40	I understand that, but let me come back to the Chamber about what sensible deadlines are. I'm going to say something about all these researches in the field of care, but most of the time this kind of thing doesn't go at the speed of light. This too may require some time, because it must of course be done properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u41	My first question was at what time we will have that investigation, but there will be an answer to that. The second is that you always look back afterwards whether you're okay or not, whether you've made a good choice or not. Does this minister have the feeling or is he comfortable to say that we are now facing the next crisis, with all the ifs and buts, or is he saying that he doesn't have this feeling at all? Last year you noticed that this minister had the feeling of 'we really need to make a little bit more effort, we really need to get back with that public debt, because someday that interest is going to rise'. Can he go into that a little deeper?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u42	Let me cut that question into a few pieces. The first part is that I am, of course, more optimistic about the state of public finances than I was a year ago. Debt has fallen significantly and interest charges have fallen significantly further. A year ago I had a piece in my cutting folder that said "help, interest rate rises." Apart from the question of whether this "help" is now in place, interest rates have fallen significantly further. So I'm a little more optimistic about that. At the same time, as long as the crisis is bad enough, there are many very unpleasant scenarios conceivable. But by the policy of this cabinet, and certainly by the policy of the previous cabinet, we are better prepared than three or four years ago for another crisis. Two. I am less optimistic about this, but I have also often exchanged this with the Chamber in the debate on Europe about how well the other Member States of the European Union are prepared for this crisis, when I look at what needs to be done in the area of reforms, when I look at what needs to be done in the area of NPLs and at what needs to be done in the area of lower public debt. So the latter is also part of the honest answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u43	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u44	Then there is a bit in the answer on the commitment. The commitment has been made and I come back to the Chamber with a letter to indicate what we are going to do in the study group, I say to Mr Snels, what we ideally do for that and how we cut it. Then the care premiums and then I'm back on the steering committee. Mr Snels and Mrs De Vries asked. Let us be very honest about that. I think that we all find it very uncomfortable that at the moment when the health insurance contributions are lower and you would like them to be for the citizen, this cannot be done in the system. But the other side is also true, that in the years in which it was exactly the other way around, politicians of all color and house said it would be very nice if we could compensate for that. However, I think we should look into this. This is really a question I would like to put to the study group, because I see the disadvantages of the current system. I would like to point out to the Chamber that I do not know whether we can easily come up with something that is clearly better than this. But I will, I say to Mrs De Vries and Mr Snels, in the same way as I have often done, in the hope that they have heard this, alerting the study group, given its total independence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u45	Thank you for that commitment. I also hope they're listening in now. But my question was also prompted by the fact that we see this rule in times when it increases the burden in the care premium, but not the opposite. I would also like us to apply the other side of that rule while there is still one. And that, if the situation is reversed next year, this Minister is going to reduce the burden if the budgetary rule gives rise to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u46	This is, of course, exactly what we are doing within the framework of burdens. It is not the first time that the Chamber and I have had this debate on this subject. I also asked Finance to explain again how many times it is going to work and how many times it is going to work, if I may put it that way. Then it turns out that there was also a whole series of years in which the care premium was higher and then a compensation debate took place in August. So, of course, I fully agree with Mrs De Vries on my own. Only, I think her cardinal point is actually somewhere else. That's just a matter of whether this is logical and understandable in terms of system. Yes, for those introduced in the budgetary logic. But maybe not always for many of the others.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u47	Yeah, that's part of my problem. This is now being tackled by the fact that we are going to look at that rule and the Study Group on Budgets is going to look at it. But indeed it is sometimes the other way around that the care premium is indeed higher than the estimates. So far, I have always felt that there would be no relief. If that is the case next year, I would like the Minister's promise that he will apply it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u48	Let me get this straight. I think I will meet Mrs De Vries on the one hand and tell her nothing new about it on the other. Because that system makes you close down to zero with regard to that care premium. Of course, other things are also happening within the framework of the burden. The cabinet and the parties in the Chamber then have the task of resolving this in a sensible way, within the framework we have agreed on for that purpose. But it's a fact that at that care premium, we always pay off to zero. So that's the part I can promise her. I just can't anticipate what the implication will be in the completeness of the burden picture. I think she'll forgive me for that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u49	Very briefly, Mrs Aukje de Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u50	I understand. I understand that there are always other factors involved, but I welcome the fact that the Minister has promised that he will at least take this part into account in the reduction of charges.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u51	Thank you for the commitment. I actually have two problems with this system. The first is that we all think it is important that we keep the costs of care in check, and if these premiums are not too bad, it is nice that they can be returned to the citizen. That's gonna address the minister. However, my second problem is that it was also stated in the Staff Note that that compensation is always tariff first disk. This year, I believe, this has also been transferred a little to employers' contributions. With that rate first disc I also have a problem. You can also just do it in the fourth disk, or in another way. Would the Minister care to comment on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u52	I'd be happy to comment on that. Of course, there are two reasons for this. I cannot surprise Mr Snels on this point. The first is that it's a political choice where you put it down. The second is, and Mr Snels will recognize that, of course, the law of large numbers also applies here. So you only have to run very little on the lowest disk compared to the fourth disk. I recognize that, but then I am at the first part of my answer.... that if GroenLinks were to have 76 seats in front of me, that choice might have been different. Then perhaps the fourth disc was chosen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u53	Finally, Mr Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u54	Then I would like to give the Minister the opportunity to put that in the Budget Group too. For it is indeed a political choice, but it is a political choice with income implications.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u55	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u56	And I have a problem with that from my political point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u57	Sure. Once again, however, we are in this complicated formula of ideas in a debate and not giving orders to the study group. So I understand. By the way, some exceptions have been made, but it is not for nothing that successive Cabinets have almost always come to fruition.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u58	In this discussion, I'm missing a variant. The Ministry estimates healthcare expenditure and then it has been falling down for a few years in a row. The VVD says: it can go back to the people. The cabinet lowers the ceiling and raises the ceiling at Defense. So you can also put it in defense equipment. What is also possible is that the money will go back to health care in the years to come. For example, you can do something about the vacancies and the staff shortage. The salaries can be raised. You can invest in health care again. And I haven't heard that variant so far. If we're going to do research, I want this variant to be included.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u59	Again, I'm not investigating. There are of course all kinds of flavors imaginable where you then spend the money on. I agree with Mr Alkaya on this in itself. Perhaps one more comment on the wording: then we give it back to the people. We're the people, too. The public debt is ultimately the public debt of the citizen. Citizens have a public debt of around 400 billion thanks to those who have made difficult choices in the past. This is also part of what we have with each other, in addition to a certain system of burdens, and in addition to an excellent society where there are a lot of facilities for everyone. Mr. Chairman. Mrs De Vries asked about the windfall formula. She remembered that I also had an exchange of views with Mrs Hennis on this subject. It has been a deliberate choice of the cabinet not to choose such a formula when the cabinet made agreements on the coalition agreement. I do not think it is wise to do it now either, and I would like to say to Mrs De Vries that I think that with the windfall formula from her political orientation August might have been worse than she has come out now. That's not to say there's a long-term component in such a fluctuating formula. You don't want there to be a setback the following year; at least that would be my estimate. I would therefore like to opt for the current system. In my view, the cabinet has made possible a very substantial reduction in the burden this summer, in addition to what we have already done, with great agreement and also on the initiative of the VVD Group. In view of the substance of my speech, I would ask Mrs De Vries for some leniency.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u60	I actually want to finish this block first. Would you like to respond to this right away?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u61	It can also be at the end of the block.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u62	I'd rather, because the minister is still...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u63	I'm at 1.3, the economy, but still deep in the first block.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u64	That's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u65	It's disappointing, but true.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u66	Then I'll wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u67	Mr President, I am exaggerating a bit. I'm a long way in block one. The economy is expected to grow by 1.8% this year and by 1.5% next year. That is lower than it was, but still quite, certainly compared to abroad. What I really want to emphasise is the great good of that very low unemployment. This applies to society as a whole, but especially to all those people who were writing job applications one, two, three, four years ago and who are now simply going to work in the morning by bike, by train, by car. Very good news. Mr Azarkan asked about the effects of long-term low growth and low interest rates. It is quite right that he should ask for that. What does that mean for the welfare state and the budget? With that, we are back on a piece of learning that we have exchanged more often with each other. The effect of that low interest rate is not unambiguous. There are obvious positive effects on this, for example for the ability to borrow with which I can borrow. I'll get back to the fund. There are also obvious vulnerabilities. See the discussion I had just had with Mr Van Dijck on savings rates. And there's a very complicated component about pensions. It's hard to make a point landing in there, because there are pluses and minuses to it. I myself assume that or, let me rephrase, I take very serious account of the possibility that low interest rates will remain with us for a long time. Because really, that low interest rate is determined primarily by what is happening on the world market and in the world economy. It also has to do with ECB policy, but it is a trend that has been going on for a long time and that you can also see in all kinds of places outside Europe, and also in places within Europe without the euro. Mr. Chairman. Then the purchasing power and how the planning agency's calculations work out. Many have said positive things about this. I would like to do what I tried to do last year, but perhaps I should have done even more strongly at the time: to stress once again that the purchasing power figures are the best possible estimate of our independent calculators, but not promises. Many of the factors that lie in purchasing power are not in our hands as a cabinet; it is an assessment of an independent institution and not a promise. Mr Azarkan asked if I understand why people no longer believe the stories of purchasing power gains. I understand that very well. Mr Azarkan has left this house, I see, but that means that it requires even more caution from politics and also from myself. Mrs De Vries asked whether the calculations on the energy bill were correct. The PBL and CBS use all Dutch houses as relevant target groups in climate and energy explorations, and we follow that as a cabinet. It is fair to say that there is a considerable spread behind the average energy consumption. Of course, a small and well-insulated terraced house consumes less than a poorly insulated villa. With regard to the ozb and purchasing power, Mrs De Vries asked in what way that was included in the purchasing power. I am going further and further into the domain of Mr Koolmees, but I can say that Izb has been incorporated into inflation through the purchasing power plates. This inflation rate is then again estimated by the Planning Bureau, but it is, of course, a figure for all municipalities. Mrs De Vries must have wondered: isn't that ozb different in different places, and what does that mean? I think that is an echo of Mr Snels' question, which is why the purchasing power of the highest incomes is increasing the most. In itself that is true and the third income group is close. In particular, it has to do with the fact that there are a large proportion of workers in these categories. What we in the cabinet think is good news is that all groups, young, old, working or not, are improving on it. But it is true that it has been a conscious choice of the cabinet to ensure that the workers make the most progress. Which brings me to the end of block one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u68	So this is the end of this part, let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u69	Yeah, I was thinking, "I'm just saying, 'cause it might invite you to questions."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u70	Yeah, yeah, that's fine. Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u71	The Minister says that there are a lot of workers in it, and that is why they are making the most progress in purchasing power. But it's just that due to the main tax measure for the rates, the highest disc goes down by 2.25% to 49.5%, while the first disc goes up by 0.7%? It is a policy decision to give the highest incomes the largest tariff reduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u72	Yes, but there is more to it, and so does Mr Nijboer. There is really something to say about, for example, the large effects of the labour discount. It's really more than just a discussion about the drives. It is true that you see that effect clearly because there are many workers in that category, but Mr Nijboer is also right that there is a political choice of this cabinet with these four parties on the basis of which to strike the balance. It is a very explicit choice for workers. There could just be political parties, some might even be close to the interrupting microphone, which would have chosen a different distribution and would have liked to put more emphasis on young people or the elderly. This is the choice that we have made and which we think is sensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u73	This means that the highest tax disc is significantly reduced: 2.25% is immense. What reason does this cabinet have for offering so much less to tenants, the elderly whose incomes are under pressure or the people who cannot work because they are disabled, both in absolute and percentage terms, than the people with the highest incomes of a tonne and more?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u74	It's really more nuanced than this part of the story. Again, there is a discussion that we have already had about what you are doing in the area of the housing market and mortgage interest relief. I just said a few words about the employment discount. But Mr Nijboer is right: in absolute terms, however, this is always the case in discussions on percentages of GNP, it is of course about greater differences than if you put it in a percentage. If you look at the column that the financial spokesmen have all seen and you see how purchasing power is developing in the different categories, you will indeed see differences, but you also see that each group is making progress, ranging from just over 1% to 2.3%, 2.4%.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u75	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u76	Thus, in absolute terms, there is the difference between €20 per month on average for people with €20,000 and €200 per month on average for households earning a tonne. That is an unfair choice, especially in these times, with such good employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u77	I recognize that there have been times when the Labour Party has made other choices on this subject. For the sake of clarity in the debate, I would like to say that it is getting complicated at the moment when you are going to get absolutely and relatively mixed up. In absolute terms, this group also pays by far the most tax, not only in percentage terms but also in absolute terms. If we are going to have an absolute discussion, we should also mention that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u78	The discussion is getting very cloudy. I am not saying that the Minister is deliberately doing so, but the purchasing power figures naturally take into account the fact that people with higher incomes pay more taxes. If you look at the expected increase in purchasing power, it is 390% of the statutory minimum wage in the highest category, and then we are no longer talking about middle income in absolute terms. In relative terms, it is still 2.3% higher in percentage terms than in the lowest income groups. The Minister says that this is a political and sensible choice, but I have not yet heard any arguments for it. I asked the VVD yesterday. Lilian Marijnissen asked the Prime Minister. Then why is that a sensible choice for the economy at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u79	It may be slightly different, and that is that Mr Alkaya does not like the answer. In itself, I can understand that from his party political point of view. It has been a conscious choice in the coalition agreement to do something and I have said once in a while: with the passer-passer and a ruler, really make sure that everyone gets a bit better. Again, it's not a promise, but that's the intention. We see them reflected again in that state. With the policy of the cabinet in this August round, we have made the plus greater for each group, not excluding any group, than if we had not come up with additional policies. I think that we, as a cabinet, have chosen to make the most of it for the workers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u80	It is not a question of whether workers benefit most from it; it is a matter of whether workers with the highest salaries benefit much more than those on low salaries. Why is that a wise choice? That is once again my question to the cabinet. I understand that you made that choice, I understand that the VVD is very pleased with it and that it is in the coalition agreement, but why is that economically wise?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u81	So we are back to the discussion I just had with Mr Nijboer. Mr Alkaya points out one moment, in an intermediate sense, that it is actually quite similar in terms of percentages. I think we can agree on that. These are relatively limited differences, fortunately, between one and two earners and between the different categories. But there is a discrepancy between working and non-working. That is right in itself; I admit that. That in absolute terms leads to greater differences is always the case. This also applies if you look at what net tax contributions these groups pay in euros.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u82	Mr Alkaya, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u83	Finally, Mr President. I do not know if you have heard an answer, but I really do conclude that there is no justification and that it is simply a question that the supporters of these parties who are in the coalition should make the most of it, that they choose to do so and that the lowest income groups are consciously forgotten. It is precisely because of these plans that the cabinet risks losing the support of the left side of this Chamber for the tax plans. And that chooses to take that for granted. I'd like to confirm that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u84	I often practice the sentence that I leave Mr Alkaya's conclusions entirely to Mr Alkaya. But this is really too short a turn. At the beginning of the government agreement, in the August round of 2018, in which I was present, and now in the round in 2019, in which the Secretary of State and I were of course very actively involved, wanted the plus that was there for everyone to increase for everyone. That's what we've been watching and achieving. Mr Alkaya says that we would have made that choice as SP differently. I say at your service.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u85	It is true that we had to fight for the reduction of the burden on middle incomes in the August decision-making process. We have fought for this and will continue to do so, even though it is perhaps even bizarre that we should do so. The Minister states that he does not want to look at this windfall formula, but I do not think that it has a direct relationship with what is happening in August. And the thinking doesn't stop, of course. If you have a lot of money left, I think you should be able to explain where you're taking it. I find it difficult to explain why the Minister here in the Chamber is hiding behind these Hague rules as a sort of bookkeeper, but externally very explicitly raises the problems of middle incomes. That is why I do not understand that the Minister's thinking does not go on and he simply says 'yes, it does'.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u86	For the historiography: Mrs De Vries refers at least in the second part of her interruption to what she said in the first part. It sounded a little like one party was the only one who stood up for the middle incomes. Let me put it carefully. My observation is that many parties, even outside the coalition, have been struggling for the middle class for a long time. I would like to thank her for the compliment that I myself have been able to contribute a little bit to that. Now I come back to the answer I gave to Mr Alkaya, namely that in the August decision-making process we tried precisely to make the people in that very broad centre feel'more', in the words that are often used for that purpose. I think that's wise. In my view, that is exactly what this debate started with, namely the Salmon methodology and the question of whether we were prepared to do some extras for them, especially when there is a reform in relation tozzp'ers versus people with fixed contracts. I believe that the cabinet has shown itself to be the opposite of an accountant. That is also prudent and sensible. And as far as the windfall formula is concerned, I'd like to study it again. I just suspect that the conclusion will be exactly the same when I've finished the whole round. If we had agreed, there would have been less results than what we achieved with a lot of puzzles and reform in the last August round. I really do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u87	I see a bit of an opening, to approach it positively. At least the Minister wants to think about it and I encourage him to do so seriously. I also think you should be able to explain things to people in the country. If we say that public debt has been substantially reduced and that there is a need to reduce the burden on middle incomes and perhaps much more, then you must have the willingness to look at this scheme. I would therefore like to call on the Minister to just look at what kind of proposal should be in front of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u88	I heard and understood the call, of course. And I really do agree with Mrs De Vries' question and with what she added. But that shows the classic dilemma that I have as Minister of Finance, that the cabinet has in broad terms and that many of the people who are participating in this debate, I think. We want it all at the same time, and we want it all at the same time. It has only been a few minutes since some of the members of this house asked me about the state debt and whether it should not actually go down any further. And there will soon be a moment in this debate when I get the question of whether the investments should be greater. Thirdly, we want to reduce the burden further. I think we made that balance right in August. We have also responded very strongly to the very valid wish expressed by Mrs De Vries to do more in the area of burden relief combined with a reform, especially for the group she and I are both in favour of.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u89	One question. Finally, Mrs Aukje de Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u90	I think an interruption is something you're going to say briefly, so I'll be brief. I see a discrepancy between what the Minister says internally and what he says externally about the middle incomes. I can't get it together very well. I would ask him once again to look into this and see if we can work out a form of a windfall formula.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u91	I think I just gave the answer to that last piece. I would really like to say the following to Mrs De Vries. I think the connection between what I said about the middle class and what was found in the Millions note and in the Prince's Daypieces is crystal clear. We shouldn't pretend we forgot that group in August. I think we just did a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u92	Mr Tony van Dijck, also a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u93	I see a turn of events with the Minister of Finance. For two years it was: 96% of people are making progress and they are improving 1%. It appears that this has not been the case for two years, and now the Minister says: the purchasing power cards are not a promise. Mark Rutte said on the occasion of this cabinet that everyone is making a great deal of progress and is going to notice that things are going well economically. That was a promise from Mark Rutte on behalf of this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u94	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u95	For two years, that promise didn't come true. For two years it was a promise that was splashed: that everyone is improving on it. Afterwards it turned out to be disappointing and now it's not a promise anymore. The people in this country are craving a little air. They're looking for a little purchasing power. This minister doesn't deliver. He's acting like he's delivering, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u96	But what's the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u97	First, he takes 36 billion in surplus. That is also taxpayers' money. My question is: what are you really going to do about purchasing power for citizens?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u98	Of course, I am trying to be consistent, but my perception is that we need to say it even more clearly. Last year, in this debate, I also succeeded and pointed out that it was not a promise but an assessment of an independent advisor to the cabinet. My own perception is that for me I need to do that even more emphatically. So that's what I'm doing today, and that's what I've been trying to do in the media around Princess Day. It's not a promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u99	You have to take into account the feelings in the people's home. They see the economy going like a tierelier. The economy grows by 10% and they get a crumb back. AOWers get back €6 per month, while they were caught by dozens of percent during the crisis. That's the feeling that lives in people's homes. I do not know if the Minister is going to start talking about marginal pressure, otherwise I would like to ask my next question about marginal pressure. The Minister says that wages should be raised. Okay, I'm an employer, and I'm giving someone $100. It's someone from the middle class, between €30,000 and €40,000. That person costs me an extra €180 as an employer and he gets three tens of them. You argue for higher wages, because you can put yourself in your pocket of every €100 extra, €150.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u100	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u101	That's the real reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u102	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u103	When are you going to do something about this marginal pressure?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u104	Mr Van Dijck completely underestimates the second and third-order effects I am trying to achieve. I very much agree with what he said at the beginning of his speech. Of course we do it for all people in the country, in whatever category they are: middle class, young, old, working or non-working. That is precisely why we have opted for a truly balanced distribution. That is precisely why we have chosen to add money. Anyone who looks at the numbers of the Planning Bureau, from 1 August and from the third Tuesday in September, will see that the Cabinet has pulled the pouch. But I still insist that politics should not promise too much. You should surprise people in a positive sense and indicate that this is an assessment and not a promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u105	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u106	Very briefly. The Minister doesn't say anything about the marginal pressure again. It is true that as an employer I give someone €100, that person costs me €180 and that he finally has three tens left in the wallet?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u107	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u108	Why are you pleading for raises? Because it's convenient for you! You have to lower taxes so that person doesn't have three tens left, but €80.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u109	You already said that. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u110	Even Mr Van Dijck really knows better. This isn't the thought behind it. However, good news is that at last, thanks to the efforts of the cabinet, wages have not increased further and have been at the highest point for ten years. I think we've all seen that. It's okay with me, not because of the second- and third-order effect, but I think it's good news.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u111	I have received no response on two points. The first is the issue of energy taxation. I've asked for an image of the elderly's use. I get a picture back of apartments, corner houses, apartments, independent villas and the like, but not about the fact that these elderly people are not in the picture about their gas consumption. That's a specific question. Secondly, I asked about the purchasing power of the elderly, who are systematically disappointing, in '17, '18, '19. Does that also lead the government, as a learning organisation, to adapt the models?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u112	With regard to the last question, we have indeed looked at the elderly. The policy of the cabinet has made older people more advanced than if we had left the figures and overviews as they were before the decision-making in August. It is really important to be honest about that and to put it in perspective. That is what I am really asking of Mr Van Otterloo. On his first question, about the breakdown, I must remain guilty of the answer. I don't know if that breakdown is possible at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u113	You'll come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u114	I will return to that in second term or in a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u115	The purchasing power plates are the basis for the government's policy. The cabinet wants to use instruments to try to establish a bit uniform purchasing power for everyone. If year in, year out it shows that it doesn't work for the group of older people, then you have to adjust the basis the CPB works with. I can imagine a written answer to this, but I would like to see how that has been processed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u116	The Planning Bureau is independent, so I really don't like doing that with an assignment. I'm not gonna give it to you either. I will return to the first part if possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u117	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u118	I didn't ask the Minister to give an order. I want to know what the Planning Bureau has been processing and what lessons the Planning Bureau has taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u119	Of course, I'm not politically responsible for the Planning Bureau, but I'll see what information we have on that. The first question I found potentially the most helpful and innovative for the debate. So let me see if I can give a nice round answer at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u120	I'm trying to keep it a little short. I notice that there are a number of elements that come back to this discussion every time. That is the concern that a large part of the Chamber has about the development of the burden of middle incomes. We have a few measures that automatically ensure that. That has to do with the care premium. That is why I understand what Mrs De Vries is saying: it works together. She was talking about a windfall formula. In my view, this is not so much an ideological point, but it could be a solution. I think we actually need a slightly broader framework. The tricky thing is that we cannot give orders to the Budget Space Study Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u121	You said you'd be brief. That's what you started it with.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u122	Yeah, excuse me. I think a lot of wishes that play here should get a place there. Does the Minister have a solution for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u123	My observation is that the study group is really not deaf. It really follows what is said here in these debates and has never been too rigid in its own scope in the past. I have often exchanged with the Chamber that I want to stay away from politicising this study group. Because then I know exactly what's going on. Then there are all kinds of ministers and all kinds of MPs who make that list longer, longer and longer. I don't think that's wise. Mr. Chairman. I would like to say two other things. We're talking about purchasing power again. Fortunately, that is not the only thing we are making policy on. I think it is wise that we should have these things and also use them for policy purposes, but precisely because of the relativity of these pictures and our ability, we should not fall prey to purchasing power fetishism. My final comment on these burdens is in the direction of Mr Slootweg. I very much agree that these burdens are on the high side. This requires, first and foremost, the discipline of policy in the area of expenditure, because these burdens do not fall out of the sky. They are the result of political choices, made in this house and in the First Chamber, to determine in society, on each of the parts of the state budget, matters at the level we are doing now. We will have to take that part of the discussion with us very strongly. It's not for nothing that I walk to chapter two, the expenses.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u124	Is it true that the subject of a broad concept of prosperity and, in particular, emissions elsewhere, is dealt with in the block?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u125	Yeah, that's right. But if there's a need for me to upgrade that even further, I'm quite willing to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u126	I understand that, but I want to make the next point. We have agreed in this Chamber to use the broad concept of prosperity, not only about the economy in the present and future, but also about the economy in the future and elsewhere. So when it comes to economics, I would like to ask the Minister to really appreciate this subject and to deal with it in the first block from now on. Does the Minister agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u127	All my kids are just as sweet to me. There are in the block "other" all fantastic topics, from state participations to...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u128	Are we gonna talk about... uh...?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u129	In the fact that the structure is as it is, Mr Van Raan should not underestimate the importance of the subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u130	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u131	No, Mr President, but on this very point, because the Minister says so. Just when you say that the first block of economics is, you have to discuss the broad economy, not just the purchasing power picture, in view of the time when we have now arrived. You also have to look at trends when you see that emissions have grown by 5% abroad. That's disastrous. The Minister's making a bit of a joke about it now. I don't think he meant to, but the request is serious. If the subject is economics, I want us to talk about economy in a broad sense from now on. If he agrees with me, I'm out of here now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u132	Or what?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u133	I wouldn't want the latter anyway, but I've heard the encouragement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u134	I would like to talk a little bit more about income trends. I agree with the Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u135	I think that part is still on the table. Can that be true?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u136	Yes, the Secretary of State will say a few things about the income.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u137	Yeah? I'm just looking at...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u138	Given the questions, I am going to say a few words about burdens on companies and self-employed people, but I did give some of the answers because they were asked to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u139	All my predecessors were going to ask questions about purchasing power, Madam President; I waited until that was over. I agree with the Minister that we need to make the predictive value of purchasing power figures a little more relative. That is precisely why I asked questions about a somewhat long-term trend in the written set. Then you see that the lower income groups between 2012 and 2020 are not only those with benefits but also those from the lower middle class, the novice teacher, the secretary, in eight years progressing 4.5% and the highest income groups 10.7% and 7%. When you see what's actually happening, I don't understand why this cabinet chooses to reduce the top rate, because that only strengthens this trend.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u140	I have no more to add to the answer I gave earlier on the question of distribution, but I think we are all looking at the following with slightly curved toes. Although we all want it, it has proved to be quite difficult to ensure that people make net gains. There are many reasons for this, such as the balance between labour and capital, to put it classically. This also has to do with an increasingly large welfare state and therefore with high burdens. That is exactly why the cabinet has tried to do what it has done in this August decision-making.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u141	All true, but lowering the top rate does not help to improve the realizations of the middle class. If you give priority to the middle-class people, where the marginal pressure is indeed more than 80% and they will indeed not get much extra if they get another periodical, and if you lower the marginal rate for top-rates, then I think you're on the wrong side of the rope.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u142	From Mr Snels' political point of view, I understand that in itself, but the picture is a little more differentiated than that, given what we are doing with the labour rebate and the mortgage interest deduction during this cabinet period. If you take one topic out and say you don't like it, I get it, but I think the image is more differentiated.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u143	I will be brief, Mr President; I saw the signals. The Minister was rather quick to ignore the energy bill, which we had all the discussions about in the past, but also the IZB in municipalities. My question is specifically about the energy bill: is the cabinet prepared to monitor it properly and to see if it is indeed going to develop as the cabinet has indicated? As far as the IZB standard is concerned, we have of course agreed on a macro standard. How does this minister, together with Minister Ollongren, view its enforcement?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u144	Those are two good questions. The first part of the question I will pass on to Mr Wiebes, but my suspicion is that he will monitor this, also given the history, without a doubt, also helped by independent institutions. I will take this on as a member of the cabinet and I think he will have to report to the Chamber on this. The second question does indeed refer to the policy area of the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. I will take this up with her, because I really understand the inspiration behind the question: the greater the bandwidth in the ozb, the greater the potentially distorting effect on purchasing power plates and therefore also on the relevance of the issue or the irrelevantness of the discussion we are having here. That's what I'm gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u145	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u146	Mr. Chairman. I ended up with the expenses. The cabinet has been investing heavily in education, research, security, defence, infrastructure and many other subjects since the government agreement. The cabinet has also chosen to continue with this, even during the spring decision-making and decision-making in this summer. We're dealing with underexhaustment. That was asked for, of course, and rightly so. The vast majority of them simply remain available for the relevant budget. Mrs De Vries asked whether the available budget is sufficient for the necessary investment in infrastructure. That is a very fair question. I think she was also concerned with specifically overdue maintenance: isn't there another very implicit account hidden somewhere in the technique? We are tackling these priority bottlenecks so effectively and effectively. In addition, we use that capacity analysis and the MIRT. I believe that, at the beginning of next year, the Minister of IenW will share with the Chamber the results of the audit of resources and what needs to be done with regard to long-term overdue maintenance. But I don't know the exact month. I think it's mid-2020. Mr. Chairman. A lot has also been said about education. I would like to start with the main line. The cabinet is investing very heavily in education, next year I think 1.9 billion and 1.6 billion in structural terms. In euros we are talking in percentages today, but I notice that we are also talking a lot in euros. In euros, it is also the largest amount that is simply added by policy. We have then broken down this by the approach of early and early school education, workload, teacher salaries, the reversal of the assignment and the halving of tuition fees for first-year students. The members of your Chamber know that breakdown. Two. There was also a discussion here about teachers in primary education: is the increase what it looked like? Indeed, the increase was 9.5%, especially over the period of 2018; it went in two steps. Then what happened to the spring note? In the spring note, extra money has been made available for science and technology. There is an increase in the grant for practical learning. Relevant to the OCW budget, but not specific to education, is the money for the media. It is really important to put into perspective that there is a structural increase of around 1.6 billion. Mr. Chairman. There was also the question, in my view, of whether Mr Snels or Mr Nijboer, whether it is true that the budget is getting lower. You have to compare apples to apples. We've been trying to get rid of the targets. We are making very substantial investments; we made them at the beginning of the coalition agreement. But we also used cash slides. That's why the rhythm looks a little different. That will not have escaped the attention of the financial spokesmen. For example, the cash slide: if you compare the gross amounts purely, then it seems as if there is a nod down, but reality is different.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u147	Let me see if there are any questions left by other Members of Parliament on this part of your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u148	I would just like to repeat very briefly what the Prime Minister said during the Political Reviews on the current debate on the field of education. But then I'm literally gonna repeat what he said there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u149	You don't have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u150	All the financial spokesmen were there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u151	Then the subject "expenditure" is thus...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u152	Education.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u153	Oh, yeah. Ma'am... Mr. Nijboer. I wanted to say "Mrs. Aukje de Vries" because...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u154	The Minister of Finance says that you should not actually compare the budget for this year with next year's budget because that would not be fair, but he does so on and on. This 3 billion relief is also largely the shift from 2021 to 2020. The cabinet and the coalition parties ruffle themselves with it "the middle class" on the chest. I think it is inappropriate for him to take the measure of opposition parties who simply place budgets next to each other. I have one specific question. The increase in student loans interest was lost in the Upper House. How is it that, at this time, the 226 million in savings are being passed on to higher education and there is no compensation for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u155	I'll start with the first piece anyway. I'm often not too qualifying about the entry given here. Mr Nijboer knows how much I appreciate him, also given his knowledge and skill and his rhetorical skills, which he now displays here again. But here is also a little bit: the sheep is the furthest from the herd you miss most. Frankly, I would think that Mr Nijboer would know very well what happened in the field of education. Why don't you take the interrupting debate he had yesterday? The cabinet has done more in the field of primary education than the Labour Party intended at the beginning of this cabinet period. Two: the ov-kasslif, together with a few other cash slides, is certainly the reason why when comparing these gross amounts there is something different. That's part of what we used to call "the fair story."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u156	The Minister has not answered my questions. He did give me a qualification for my input. At the beginning of this cabinet period, primary school teachers weren't on strike, schools weren't closed and children didn't go to school after four days. The world changes sometimes, and that's where you have to act. The cabinet claims to do so, but it doesn't. It leaves to address the major needs of society, such as housing shortage and the educational crisis. That was my main message yesterday. I call upon the Minister of Finance to do so. He may then arrive with a budget of two years ago and take my measure on it all at your service, but I think that, although the cabinet is making a number of investments, that is far too little and far too little for the needs of the present. The Minister of Finance is diving away from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u157	That is really not the case. What I have done, I think, is really right, also given Mr Nijboer's comments. You have to put into perspective what is happening here, even because Mr Nijboer and his party, when the cabinet was working for about nine to ten months, have set fire to the slogan "the public sector is on fire."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u158	Mr President, a correction. That was the SP, not the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u159	Mr Nijboer did not read the Minutes, but he did use similar words. I always thought: that was surprisingly quickly achieved by the cabinet. In ten months, money has been added. The same feeling creeps me a little bit in education. That is indeed a very important subject. That is precisely why the cabinet invests heavily in this. That is exactly why the Prime Minister in the Political Reviews said what he said. That is precisely why Mr Slob encourages parties to sit at the collective bargaining table. But we will have to include all the elements involved in the discussion. I know Mr Nijboer wants more money for education. That's what I heard. But sometimes the discussion goes down a very narrow path. I think it's important to mention the width as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u160	Apparently, this cabinet expects the opposition to come in with flowers for its blissful work. If you look at the classes, the workload in education and at schools that close after four days, I think there really needs to be more happening than this cabinet is doing right now. I'm gonna keep talking to the cabinet about that. For the third time I ask the question: how is it possible that the cut in interest rates for students, who did not go through, is passed on to colleges and universities? How do you explain that at this time?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u161	Mr Nijboer is right that I owed him the answer to that question. In this cabinet period, not a penny of this is going down on the budget. Period. In 2025, these costs will be covered by general. Period. After that, that series runs up. These costs are currently technically charged to the cost of education. But then we're talking about the whole long term. If the parties wish to intervene in a subsequent formation, they are, of course, free to do so. But here too, the suggestion of the question seems to be that an account is being pushed towards higher education during this cabinet period. That's just not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u162	Then finally, really.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u163	There is a technical task of higher education for 226 million in the budget. This is in the long run, because next year...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u164	Yeah, 2060.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u165	Yeah, I'll talk to the Minister about that. In fact, I put in a cover last year, which was then also possible under the budgetary rules, in order to prevent this, because I saw it coming. Then the Minister said: I will come back to that in August; I will come back to that in the budget. Let me get back to that...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u166	Me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u167	... because it's still in higher education. I ask you how you can do that, because science is so important. But the universities say we've never had such a bad relationship with the cabinet. You deny it and say: after the elections you can do something about it. That's right, but I'm addressing you to what you're doing right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u168	It worked. I think I'll come back to it now. For now, let me say that Mr Nijboer and I have almost agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u169	Almost, almost.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u170	That's not an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u171	I think I answered the question about funding in detail. I think Mr Nijboer's appreciation is different from mine, but it is an answer to the question. I think we can agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u172	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u173	Then I had comments on the budget on NATO's capacity objectives, the asylum and migration chain, justice and youth care, where all additional money goes. Mr Snels specifically asked me about two important issues that came to the Political Reviews, namely the motion on the vice police and the amendment to the youth centres of expertise. Let me say a few words about what was put on paper. With the motion on the vice police 15 million is structurally invested in additional capacity. This is covered by the unused wage and price adjustment in the additional item. The amendment to the VWS budget for 2020 will free up 11.5 million for centres of expertise for specialised youth assistance in the short term. Structurally, it's about a total of 26 million. These are important issues. These two choices have been made by GroenLinks and the cabinet considers them to be very sensible. They're covered, too. The second one is covered within the VWS budget, so I think the coverage is fine. Mr Stoffer and I also believe that Mrs De Vries asked about the motion on the undermining. This is the same as what was exchanged during the political discussions on education. The Heerma/Dijkhoff motion asks to see whether, how and when an intervention team could be set up undermining. On the one hand, the Prime Minister wanted to show a positive attitude and, on the other hand, a step in the right direction, because there is now nothing to say about any additional resources. We don't know that yet. I don't know until I get to the Navy's notebook. The Minister of Justice will inform the Chamber as soon as possible about the further development of this motion, including any means available. Mr Stoffer asked about the 2%. Then, of course, we're talking about defence. The cabinet's commitment remains as it is. I'm going to go back to the percentages. We are not doing as much as we are doing in the field of defence in any budget. This year, in the spring decision-making process, we decided to add almost half a billion more towards 2024. In any case, the NATO capacity target of 461 million and then slightly decreasing is an additional underlining of the great importance of making real progress on this. Mr Van Raan asked whether it was true that only half of the CO reduction was achieved with the Climate Agreement. I don't recognize that. The Netherlands is committed to reducing CO emissions internationally and in Europe. In my opinion, we have drawn up very ambitious plans in the last year and have also been able to reconcile them. We are also doing an enormous amount of work to ensure that this broad resonance is found in Europe. See for example the session we had with part of the German cabinet at the Catshuis and also yesterday with a large part of the German and Dutch cabinet in Berlin. But, of course, I was here. Mr Sneller asked what it was doing in concrete terms. I can say that I found the session with the Bundeskanzlerin, my colleague and a number of others very inspiring. We have really talked about a lot of issues there. Germany then came up with its own intentions relatively quickly thereafter. I think it goes too far to raking all that to us as a resultant of that inspiring session. But I note in my talks with my French and German colleagues and also with the German Minister for Economic Affairs and others that the movement we have put in place is being followed very strongly. Mr. Chairman. Mr. Snels asked about the PAS. That is a very logical question, but it is a question that really needs to be answered. The cabinet is working hard on a reaction towards the Remkes Committee. I cannot anticipate that in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u174	I'll see if the...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u175	Mr President, I have almost finished this block. I have just said a few words about rising expenditure in social security and health care. It is true that these reports take a very long time. That is also the warning I received at the beginning of the WRR: this takes some time. Of course, it is not the case that ministers De Jonge and Bruins do nothing. On the contrary, I would like to say. A large proportion of the lower spending over the last two years was found at VWS. The main agreements have actually been able to reduce expenditure in the Social Fund. This wide-ranging social review is still to come. That will awaken warm feelings to Mr Sneller. I believe that at the beginning of next year, VWS will come up with a contour note, which deals with organisational and affordability, as Minister De Jonge always says.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u176	Are you done with this piece?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u177	I was a long way. Do you want me to give you a minute? I have something left on private R&D investments. Mr Sneller and Mr Alkaya asked for this. In itself, this is a very justified point. There's a lot to say about it. It also has to do with the structure of our economy. The cabinet, as well as previous cabinets, does more or less its fair share. It is the business sector in particular that is lagging behind. Part of the statement really lies in the structure of our business. Mr Slootweg asked when the Quality Insight Programme would produce results. My perception is that this is already happening. I also spoke about it in the cabinet last Friday. I have said once again that the Chamber is going to run faster and that Snels and Snelter have been able to broaden the scope to a number of other committees. As far as I am concerned, it is happening and the effect is already visible. In addition, we are of course working on all kinds of departmental initiatives. I recently sent a letter about it to the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Mr Alkaya asked me about the focus on poverty in the Netherlands. It has the cabinet, is my firm conviction. We have a broad debt approach and we have made structural money, 85 million, available. In addition, the cabinet has made 80 million available to municipalities. Mr Alkaya also asked about mold or other problems in houses. Of course, everyone wants to live in a house without mold. Owners of homes or tenants have a task in the first place. In the Chamber, a motion has been adopted for, I believe, Mrs Beckerman among others, to arrive at a national approach. BZK's colleague is carrying out that motion. If it is correct, the Chamber was informed about the approach before the recess. Mr President, this brings me to the end of the block on expenditure. To reassure you, I've already done a lot of the revenue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u178	First Mr Snels, then Mr Snelter and then Mr Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u179	The Minister will not be surprised that I am disappointed that the solutions to the problem of nitrogen are so long overdue. We are talking today about the Financial Reviews and we should be able to offer society more certainty. I had one more specific question, which I have already asked. An additional 1 billion has been made available for housing. Surely it cannot be that the 1 billion for housing could now also be used to buy out farmers?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u180	In my opinion, there was a very specific description of the extra expenditure on housing, which falls under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but I think it is really unwise to take a kind of semi-advance here on all these different sides of the discussion about the PAS. The Minister of LNV is working very hard on that, so let's really leave that with her. We will return to this as a cabinet as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u181	That's what the cabinet comes back to and then the financial record is there, but there's 1 billion for housing. The EUR 1 billion is therefore for housing and not for solving the problem of nitrogen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u182	On behalf of the cabinet, I think the Minister of LNV has said that the cabinet should look at this, without pre-declaring all kinds of things taboo. I really want to give her space and not make a kind of half advance anyway, because that is not helpful in this very complex case, both in substance and in politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u183	As a chamber, too, we want to talk about this very thoroughly. That's what we're gonna plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u184	The Minister is calling for a great deal of attention outside this Chamber to be paid to these rising healthcare expenditures. I share that concern with him. At the same time, however, the outline note will have to be written next spring, while the WRR will come much later and the election programmes will also be written next spring. That is why I am looking for a little more ambition in the area of these reforms of care. What are we going to do to actually slow it down? In the under-exhaustment described by the Minister, I still feel that the estimates are not accurate and that the vacancies cannot be filled. That's more like it than we're well on our way to bend them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u185	I naturally agree, as I have said to the Chamber on many occasions, that we really need to think about long-term care expenditure. It is a very important subject for all of us, and b: I think we all want every Dutchman, no matter what he deserves, to continue to have access to that very good care. But point c is that these care costs do have the ability to push other pieces of the budget out of the nest like a cuckoo boy. Mr Sneller is right about that, and I think I have said something about it before. I just want to avoid the impression that VWS colleagues would not pay attention to this. They have already intervened, with the main agreements, with the debate on medicines prices and with all kinds of other things that they can put on their hands and not me. We looked together with Finance and VWS two years ago at what we could do much more structuralally, but I would really like to leave it to the US ministers to come back to that next year, no matter how much I see the impatience in itself as a positive encouragement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u186	We are also going to get new sustainability figures from the Central Planning Bureau this autumn. In their Macro Economic Explorations, they say: beware, the care is disappointing. It is particularly important for this Minister to take an explicit look at this and also to ensure that we can have a financial debate on what is happening there, rather than just leaving it at VWS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u187	Of course, I'd like to be willing to do that. I am, of course, looking with all my colleagues in the cabinet in full terms with regard to finance, regardless of how pleasant they generally find it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u188	I have a question about the lack of social housing. The Minister has just answered the question about mold in homes. That may be the most pressing problem, but not the only one. We are talking about much more: leaky roofs, damp walls, lack of insulation. The landlord's tax is a reason why housing corporations can't do much about it. That was a crisis measure. Does the cabinet think that this landlord levy should ever be abolished?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u189	That's what the Secretary of State will come back to separately.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u190	The Secretary of State already felt that he had received very few questions, but he wanted to say something about this. So maybe I should leave that with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u191	The Minister says that he does not recognise the reasoning regarding the Climate Law and the climate agreement that only half of half of it is done. I understand that he refers to the efforts that are being made jointly with Germany. Once again, we are talking about half the halving of emissions. We have also embraced the broad concept of prosperity that is also about emissions elsewhere. If he doesn't recognize it now, is the Minister at least prepared to look at whether that reasoning is not correct because we also need to realize emissions elsewhere? Is he willing to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u192	But then I must be prepared to investigate something that I do not recognize immediately. So I would still need a written question from Mr Van Raan so that at least the beginning of recognition on the subject will arise and then it may appear that we disagree on the substance, but that conclusion will come.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u193	I'm already out. I don't remember.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u194	Luckily, I have not dropped out and I think it is a very reasonable proposal from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u195	As long as you get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u196	I hope that I will now make it very clear. The Minister was just talking about the infrastructure. There has indeed been a letter on the maintenance of the state infrastructure. I think that's important, too. Only my question was more focused on what the level of ambition is. I see that there is now a shift and that money is being drawn from the Infrastructure Fund to resolve the late maintenance. It would not be good, I think, also looking at the growth agenda that the cabinet is now working on, that we are going to spend the entire Infrastructure Fund on overdue maintenance and that there will be no room for new investments. We would like to have a look at both of them to see how it relates to the existing budgets.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u197	I very much agree with Mrs De Vries. She rightly says that the cabinet also invests heavily in infrastructure. I have previously mentioned this very high employment as a very big plus, because it really makes a lot of difference for a lot of Dutch families. One of the cabinet members who also deal with the other side of the coin is the Minister of IenW. Some construction projects are less quickly withdrawn because there is a huge cut-off on that market. Let me turn to Mrs De Vries' point, whether we are not talking about throwing everything in the wrong direction in terms of maintenance and not doing new things anymore. As far as I am concerned, that is out of the question. I can't give the overview at road level or level of detail right now. I could ask the Minister of IenW, but I would like to reassure Mrs De Vries that the agreed main line is maintained by the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u198	Before a misunderstanding arises, I think that the overdue maintenance and management and maintenance of the existing one are also crucial, in addition to the investments. But I would indeed appreciate it if the Minister would ask the Minister of IenW to give a good picture of both in relation to the level of ambition and if we could also have an overview of the total at the beginning of next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u199	Yeah, absolutely. I will.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u200	Mr. Snels, you've just been here, but another question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u201	It was also a question, and perhaps the Minister will come back to it later. Did he complete the PAS? I asked a very specific question about the position of Rabobank. Is he gonna come back to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u202	I'm gonna say something about the Rabobank, but I'm not gonna say anything about the PAS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u203	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u204	Yes, for a moment I thought it might be so provocative that Mr Snels would turn away immediately, but fortunately he does not. Mr. Chairman. I've landed on Part Three, the revenue side. I have already said a lot about what is happening in the area of burdens. The Secretary of State will explain the tax measures in detail where necessary. I have said a lot about the workers and the questions that relate to them. I have already said a great deal to Mr Slootweg about the marginal pressure. He touched on a very specific point, on which Mrs De Vries also said something, namely the point that Dutch women work relatively much part-time. So we are champions when it comes to two people from one household who work and we are also part-time champions. In both states we are at the top or almost at the top. It is true that the tax burden plays a role in this, but there are also other factors, such as social standards, study choices, individual choices and childcare opportunities. This is a point in which all kinds of political choices and substantive elements are hidden. That is why the cabinet has also commissioned an ibo on part-time work. The results, including the cabinet response, will be published at the end of this year or early 2020. In my view, I have had all the questions put by Mr Slootweg on this subject, but not after I reported to him last Friday that Minister Koolmees and also the Secretary of State, I think, have sent an investigation to the Chamber looking at the remaining pain points of marginal pressure. I would like to mention this for the sake of completeness, because it may be that the report has been washed up in committees in which some of the financial spokesmen do not sit. Mr President, in the Frapper Toujours category, the SP was right to ask about self-employed workers and the single-earners. I think the Secretary of State's gonna say something about the one-earners. With regard to the selfemployed, Mr Stoffer asked for the selfemployed to be combined with compulsory invalidity insurance. That's an interesting question, but it's really two different things. The cabinet wants to reduce the cost gap between employees and the self-employed, and this is also so clearly reflected in the August decision-making process, and of course it is already partly preluded to what the Borstlap report might bring with it. Furthermore, we await that committee. The Secretary of State may deal with the costs of the companies and the Vpb. Mr Alkaya and Mr Azarkan asked why the cabinet did not choose to remove any reduction in the tax on profits altogether. We have chosen what we believe is a better balance. But in order not to allow the load relief to continue at all, we found again too short a turn. I would add that those who think that this Vpb is only paid by corporate Netherlands, AEX-like companies, should not be mistaken about how many large and medium-sized family companies fall into that high Vpb rate and thus suffer the consequences. Then I arrived at the end of block 3.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u205	It is very easy to say today that these are political choices, without fully supporting them. The same applies to the reduction of the Vpb tariff. If you were to lower the rate in the lowest level, SMEs would, of course, benefit relatively more from it, and larger companies would also benefit from it. So it is a political choice not to do so and only to give those larger companies a tax cut. Next, the Minister only says here: 'Yes, we have chosen to do so'. But what's the basis for that? Why is it wise to give only the larger companies a tax cut?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u206	Let me also immediately clear up a misunderstanding that may or may not have arisen. The cabinet is lowering the Vpb for small businesses. In fact, there it goes even further down, and that remains the same as we had planned in the coalition agreement. I believe that we are going down one percentage point further, even in the last assessment we made. So we do that very consciously, just for those very small companies. I think it is important to make that nuance with regard to the large companies. Because that high Vpb rate also includes all kinds of companies that do not belong to the category listed on the stock exchange. Finally, I would really like to say to Mr Alkaya that you must earn the money before you can distribute it. That money is earned in the Netherlands in business.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u207	Oh, yeah. That's a truth that stands like a house. Pretty few people can disagree with that, I guess. However, I still haven't heard any evidence of why lowering that highest profit tax drive would be a sensible choice. In the countries around us, when you look at Germany, when you look at France, those rates are higher. So why is it so urgent now, why is it so important now that the rate in that high disk would go down in 2021?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u208	Exactly what I just said. You have to make the money before you can split it. That money must be earned in business; big, small, medium, by the millions of people who work hard every day there. That's where the money is made. That is where the tax is eventually collected, either through income or profit tax, where we can all ultimately pay the police, the care and list all the topics. If you then look at what this Vpb looks like internationally, then I think we are in the Netherlands slightly above the average. And we're a little closer to the average after this drop. There is a link between how high taxes are for businesses and employment and productivity. So I think it's wise that the cabinet doesn't lose sight of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u209	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u210	You cannot lose sight of this and then come to other decisions. I think those who run the economy are also the people in the workplace. We have just talked about the fact that the purchasing power for those who earn a normal wage on the workplace is going up only slightly, much less than the managers are making progress on it. And then the income tax for the most wealthy goes down and the income tax for larger companies. I still haven't heard a convincing argument as to why that now so...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u211	You've said that three times.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u212	Yes. That's important, isn't it, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u213	Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u214	In the end, however, changes of this kind must lead to a choice. I don't hear the cabinet coming up with any support. If we are standing here just to explain that there is a political difference of opinion, yes, then we do not really need to have the debate anymore. On the contrary, I would like to hear arguments as to why it would be sensible at the moment. Because the fact that the money has to be earned before it can be spent is basic school economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u215	Let me put it this way: it is not something that the SP always has very sharp in my perception. But let me not be unkind about that. We are really taking a step here, with regard to income tax, but also with regard to this important policy area, insofar as we have to try to convince each other. Look, the SP fraction here, I believe, chooses to take the Vpb to 30%. I don't have it anymore, but I think the choice in the election programme was even more extreme. Mr Alkaya is shaking from no, but at least it went in the same direction. That may be so, but we do not think that as a cabinet it is wise when it comes to the earning capacity of these companies. I have just explained that there is a real misunderstanding and that the cabinet is doing a lot more for small businesses. That's what we do with that low Vpb fare. We are, of course, also coming up with a substantial broadening of the basis. It also has to be paid for by companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u216	I'd like to draw a conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u217	You don't have to do that, do you? Well, one final comment, then, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u218	This is really an important point. We are pretending to be sensible and ill-advised policies, as if there were some kind of scientific consensus on what is a sensible economy, and of course there is no such thing. It's about interests. If the cabinet were only about a fair economy, it would not have to raise the VAT rate. SMEs are only affected by this. I conclude, therefore, that the cabinet chooses large companies rather than small businesses and entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u219	This is really bullshit, really fucking bullshit. I can't say it any other way. It is also a bit complicated: Mr Alkaya wants a sensible basis first and, after I have given it, he says that a sensible basis does not exist by definition, because economists always disagree.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u220	I'm getting a bit of a déjà vu, thinking about the dividend tax. That was one of those taxes that had to be abolished. It was felt in the fibers that that had to happen. One text from Unilever and the whole party was canceled. Now the same thing's happening with that income tax, that Vpb. There's no investigation at all, no argument, why it's too high. Are there any companies that leave the Netherlands because they think the Vpb is too high here? Are there any companies that will settle here when that Vpb is down? But you spend $2.5 billion on such a measure. And in the meantime, you're increasing VAT for the people, which also costs 2.5 billion. So the whole of the Netherlands is now paying 9% on its vegetables and its groceries, so that the Vpb will soon be able to pay for the multinationals and they will not have to complain, because even there, the money can go down against the plinths. Can you give me one sensible argument why that's necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u221	I sometimes get that feeling of déjà vu when I have the debate with Mr Van Dijck. By the way, I always greatly appreciate him, also in consistency. It does not always depend on the quality, but on the consistency of his argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u222	Mr President, on a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u223	Quite right!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u224	Not always, I said. That leaves enough room for interpretation and courtesy. If we add everything together, if we take the basic path and what is happening in the area of burdens, then it is not the case that the burden on business is falling. On the contrary. Mr Van Dijck should not pretend that the cabinet spends huge gifts and then rabidly collects the money elsewhere. That's just not reality. The reality is that the cabinet had to do with a basic path of many billions of burdens, for citizens and for business. What the cabinet does is very much reduce the burden on the citizen, while business, if you make everything net, has to do with a slight increase.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u225	That's the problem. Since the seventies, that AIQ has been running down. In other words, business is getting an ever bigger piece of cake, and the citizens are very much lagging behind. So you don't have to feel sorry for business. There's no company that's gonna leave if that Vpb just stays at 25%. Call me one company. Give me an e-mail or give me a signal that goes away when the Vpb goes down. There's no such company. Those companies are mouse-silent, and why are they mouse-silent? 'Cause the money at the companies is craping against the plinths. They don't have a problem. The citizens of this country have a problem, but the companies are laughing at this cabinet. And what does the Cabinet do? As a bonus, throw another 2.5 billion at those companies! You're completely lost when it comes to intelligence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u226	So.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u227	I heard a loud cheer in response to Mr Van Dijck's remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u228	Anyone who bounces can expect back.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u229	Well, that would be 1-1, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u230	I've heard a lot of things, but a question wasn't decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u231	That is always the case with Mr Tony van Dijck. Mrs. Aukje de Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u232	The Minister is now talking about the reduction of the ICI which is being postponed for a year. It was linked to the increase in the box 2 rate. Now it's like we're gonna postpone one year, but the other? The Secretary of State will come back to that. Then I hope he has a very nice answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u233	I am already far; I should like to thank Mr Van Dijck for that. I have messed with the burden of the Secretary of State. But the temptation was so great on both sides that I think it's okay that we didn't know that temptation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u234	Mr President, I see you watching: do these interruptions just keep coming? That is also because the Minister's argument for this measure, which saves 2.4 billion tax revenues, is simply absent. What is really important for the location climate in the Netherlands? That's a well-educated population, good infrastructure, a country where people can live nicely. Many studies have been carried out, but why is it now necessary to allocate 2.4 billion for this at this time? That is a legitimate question which Mr Van Dijck and Mr Alkaya also asked. We just didn't get a decent answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u235	Then I must make a distinction between the answers that Mr Nijboer does not like and the answers that are given. Just as specific. This is not about Dutch companies, of course; it is about Dutch companies, but if you are wondering why companies come to the Netherlands, it is primarily about your overall economic infrastructure. If it is safe, there are good ways, many of the things Mr Nijboer referred to. You can talk about it long or short, but the second part is taxation. The third piece has to do with the effort you make in bringing companies to your country. So it is definitely a mix. As far as I am concerned, this debate is not about that, but I say it because references were made to last year's debate. This is about the Vpb. The Prime Minister is always using this clauseed wording on rewards, and you know that there is also a major broadening of the basis. And you also know that we're bringing the rate down, especially for small businesses. That's a balanced package.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u236	The interruptions were mainly aimed at the large companies, the high rate. Mr Alkaya also said that he supports the SME entrepreneurs who are having difficulties in relation to the large companies. That is what the demand is for. I do not think the Minister is right in his argument that taxation plays such a big role, especially when you look at the rates in the surrounding countries, at the discrepancy between what companies contribute to all our public services in society and what people pay. Mr Van Dijck pointed that out. If you put out such a large amount of money for this, such a major policy priority for burden relief for the larger companies, then that deserves more support than this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u237	I refer to my previous reply. I'm about to say some nice things about the counter-budget, but other choices have been made.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u238	Does the Minister recognize this card?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u239	The CD card, sure. That has a prominent place in my study.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u240	Article 3.1 of the Compatibility Act. In the investigation that Mr Sneller and I have carried out before the Chamber, one of the conclusions was that, in the case of tax measures, we do not actually apply Article 3.1 of the Compatibility Act properly as a Chamber and as a cabinet. This applies to the tax on profits, but it also applies to the reduction of the top rate. What is the objective, how effective is the measure and are there no cheaper ways of achieving the same goal? I find it disappointing that the Minister of Finance, as guardian of the Compatibility Act, provides this basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u241	That almost sounds like I should have a serious conversation with the Secretary of State from the responsibility of Finance 1 and Finance 2. At the same time, I believe that the support we have provided as a cabinet is genuine. Let us be very honest about this: those who are particularly looking for inspiration in terms of content simply do not agree with this measure. For it is not for nothing that Mr Alkaya, Mr Nijboer and Mr Snels have tabled a counter-budget, making a different political choice in this particular area. I accept that, but that makes that choice, with the Compatibility Act in hand, not a better one, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u242	I can have a discussion that we are also going to introduce Article 3.1 for counter-budgets, because then we are going to have better reasons for doing so. I am very much in favour of this and then we are going to do it for motions and amendments too, but this is a legal obligation. You're the guardian of the Compatibility Act. You must state exactly what you want to achieve and have the discussion with the Secretary of State. How effective is the measure you are proposing and are there no cheaper measures? I think it should be better. This is true in the debate, but also in the explanatory memorandum on tax plans. That is the research I have done with Mr Sneller. The Minister of Finance broadly agrees on this, but this certainly also applies to tax measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u243	That's where we're going, to take that formulation off the table again, really pulling on the same side of the rope. I agree with that, of course. Moreover, I think that Mr Snels and Mr Snelter have particularly encouraged me to do so, and I think that a helpful encouragement should be given to intensify the dialogue with all colleagues in the Cabinet with regard to the Compatability Act. We are in complete agreement on that. I'm learning two new things here. One: the Secretary of State is also on the list of directors with whom dialogue could be intensified. Two: I have heard the good news that from now on counter-budgets must also pass the test of the Compatability Act's criticism.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u244	I believe that this point has been sufficiently changed. I'd switch to block four, the investment fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u245	I'd like to start with that. Then I have to tell you something about why and why now. Allow me to take a slightly longer run for that. With regard to the reason why I am moderately optimistic, I also see the debate I just had with Mr Stoffer, among others, on the economic situation and what it looks like for the Netherlands in the relatively short term, with all the downside risks that there are, probably, with a blow to the arm. I'm less optimistic about the real long term. If you look at the long term, you see a country that and a world that will change dramatically. How much and at what speed do we not know, but it will change dramatically through movements such as artificial intelligence, robotics, innovation and everything related to biotechnology. That's one. Two. The Netherlands will continue to grow older and will find it fairly difficult not to have very generous arrangements in the welfare state and on the expenditure side of the budget with this ageing population and a relatively low international economic growth. That's quite a complicated combination. A second element that goes with it is that there is an opportunity here: the low interest rate. There are, of course, all kinds of intricacies hidden under the grass. It hasn't been said that low interest rates stay forever. We all know the negative effects of low interest rates on savers, for example. We just switched that. But from the point of view of public finances, the potential is an opportunity, precisely because these interest charges are dramatically lower than they were ten or twenty years ago, when every expenditure for the Minister of Finance directly had a huge interest rate effect in the budget of the following year. We don't have that right now. That dilemma between on the one hand a country that will change and will increasingly have to do with artificial intelligence and robotics and on the other hand that chance of low interest rates is, as far as I am concerned, the starting logic of thinking about an investment fund. The next thing I want to say is that the idea of a fund is anything but new. Together with Mr Wiebes, I have enjoyed laughing at many discussions in the press. I myself have mentioned Mr Pechtold as someone who has sometimes come up with the idea of a fund. The Joseph Fund has always addressed me for all kinds of reasons. We have of course had the FES and of course all kinds of people have come up with the idea of a fund. So I'm the last one to pretend that's some sort of unique idea. Mr Bruins really hit the nail on the head when he said: this will only work if you do it right. That's where it gets complicated. You have to want to invest in, for example, knowledge development, R&D and infrastructure. They really help the earning capacity of the Dutch economy in the long term. But politics is what it is. And, let me put it carefully, not every previous attempt by politics has led to a great success. Take the FES. That appears to have been a very successful start from official research into how that turned out. It only stopped because eventually a FES bridge came to the regular budget. So I very much agree with Mr Bruins that the road to success here was strewn with thorns and thistles. And, of course, I asked myself the question: do you have to give up? Should you abandon it because you're also taking a risk, because there's a chance that it's being used for the wrong things, for all kinds of political desires, no matter how valid, but they shouldn't be covered by them? Wiebes and I, as well as the others in the cabinet, have thought: no, that is the wrong intuition. Well, you shouldn't do it out of that caution, then. You have to see if you can take this step, where you have to think very carefully about the criteria that projects have to meet and think very carefully about governance. To answer immediately the question of a number of Members: of course, as always, Parliament has the last word. I think it's very helpful to think about the criteria. As Mrs De Vries or anyone else put it, it is important to have the debate in front of it politically and then to look at a way of organizing it that actually goes to the projects of great added value, for the earning capacity of the economy, in the fields of knowledge development, R&D and infrastructure. Then we will undoubtedly have at least once or twice a year the debate on the political wishes, what we all want and how we distribute the money. That won't be gone, but we need to clearly tear these two things apart, otherwise, like Mr. Bruins, I'm much more sceptical about the added value. With this I have already said a lot about the questions. I would also like to stress that I very much agree with Mrs De Vries, who said: beware that the definitions are not stretched and make sure that you keep it really tight. That is very much my responsibility, and that is very clearly the responsibility of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy. He's in that game in exactly the same way. And I would just like to ask the members of this committee to help us here too. I think we can really make something of this, which means that in twenty or thirty years' time we can say: this was a very sensible choice of politics. But it could also be a failure. So that's where we're all at. Mr Stoffer and Mr Azarkan rightly asked about the FES and the Joeke Fund and Mr Nijboer about the FES, I think. I will take these lessons very explicitly into account in the analysis and the design of the phase that has now begun. I come back to the fund together with Mr Wiebes in the first quarter, as the Chamber knows. And Wiebes comes earlier with a growth letter, but it has a different and wider scope. Mr Sneller asked about the criteria. I would therefore like to make the criteria very clear: I do not want to take an advance on them. I don't think that's wise. Faster also asked for broad prosperity. I want to stay away from that for now, but what's in the Millions Note doesn't say for nothing. Of course, we're not gonna copy the old industry. Of course, we are not going to build a second petrochemical complex, as perhaps in the 1950s or 1960s was entirely logical, but what is very unlikely to be successful in the long term. It has to be done in a forward-looking way, but I really want to park the discussion on the criteria, because we will have them in full wealth, hopefully in the first quarter of 2020. Mr Snels and Mr Sneler asked us when we would come up with more information. I really want to speed up. I want to speed up sending a piece to the Chamber in the first quarter. Hopefully we will be able to have the debate. I would like to add, although it is a very long horizon and we are talking about money until 2050, that does not mean that I want to wait another ten years to start. Quite the contrary. When we have set the criteria and organised the governance and the politics agree on them, it is all quite necessary to take some time at the time when all this is settled and we have a project that meets the criteria, then the project should also be able to start. Mr President, I will continue with your approval. Mr Azarkan asked about the relationship to low interest rates and said that the fixation should not have any unintended consequences. Of course, I agree with him very much. It's going to be one of the safety valves we need to build together. What do you do if the economic tide changes significantly? Suppose, although few people expect you to go from inflation to deflation. Let's say there's going to be a massive crisis and the deficit explodes. Let's say... We can name all kinds of other macroeconomic indicators. Then the politics, the successor of my successor, but also the successors of everyone present here, must be able to adjust and make a new choice. It is precisely because of Mr Azarkan's very justified point that I will take that into account in the first quarter. Mr Snels asked whether it would be an acceleration of the benefit-burden project. On the basis of the recommendations of Mr Sneller and Mr Snels, the Ministries of Defence and Mr IenW have selected four investment projects. I cannot now say whether these projects, which I do not yet know, will have any impact on the benefit-burden debate. I believe that the four investment projects that the ministries are now piloting are not faster than this. I don't think that's realistic. Mr Slootweg asked whether this would contribute to a less pro-cyclical fiscal policy. My idea is that we are doing something structural, including through the economic cycle. We are not trying to cope with a cyclical dip of, for example, two or three years. We have the ingredients for this that I mentioned earlier in the debate. Mr Slootweg also asked how this fund relates to the budgetary rules in Europe. Of course we respect them from A to Z. There is a great deal of interest, especially from North-West Europe, in this fund. In the direction of the Animal Party, I would like to say that investment must fit within the framework of Paris. That is in fact in line with what I said to Mr Sneller earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u246	Have all the questions about this section been answered?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u247	I mean that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u248	All right, then I will go to Mr Nijboer, then Mr Azarkan and Mr Snels and then Mr Bruins. Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u249	The Minister has spoken for a while, but I think it's a shiny story for such a big plan. Something is being said about low interest rates, robotics and biotechnology. And there's going to be an investment fund. My question is: is that fund really going to be there? And two: is the size of many tens of billions? That is what the Minister said in the press, but not yet in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u250	We're talking about it here for the first time. I'll start with the first question. The Millions note is crystal clear. The question is not "or," but the question is "how." I just added a few things to that. But I want to have that discussion to the full in one go. I think it would be ill-advised to have a kind of half-discussion about the criteria: what is and what is not? Then we'll all be discussing plans with each other. I think it is wise, I say with some caution towards the confessional parties, that we should be in this with a certain degree of agnosticism. You don't want to think in advance: I'm gonna do "A" or "B" or "C." You have to let the criteria do their job.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u251	I think it is quite irresponsible of the Minister of Finance to say: the question is not whether, the question is how. I think you should know exactly, especially if you want to invest many billions of taxpayers' money in the economy, what your goal is, what you want to do, what you spend it on, whether it's wise, how you manage it in terms of organisation. You can say a lot about that. The Minister has already said something about the FES, but that was also a bit of a loose remark. Then you make a very good analysis and then you do it or you don't. This cabinet has decided to do it, but has no idea how it intends to do it. Then I'm really wondering what you're doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u252	I see that Mr Nijboer's enthusiasm can grow even further. I am going to add something, also to clear up another misunderstanding. The cabinet has never said, not the Prime Minister and not me, that we are now preparing a very large pot of money. Nor am I responsible for what was published in the press before Princess Day. We're not going to do "money-seeking project" here. If you look at the long term and the importance of the subject, it could be billions of investments if projects meet them. But I'm not gonna borrow that money in the short term and put it away or set it up somewhere, because then it's gonna burn back in the bag. I want it the other way around. I want us to be able to agree on what this vehicle looks like. Projects then meet or do not meet the criteria. If a project meets the criteria and it costs X over a Y number of years, then that's the time to make that money available. We are not putting that money in place, I say to reassure Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u253	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u254	I have just read in interviews with the Minister, in the NRC, in the Algemeen Dagblad, I also believe in the Volkskrant, that this fund will amount to many tens of billions. Then there's just quotes. That's a statement from the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u255	Yes, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u256	Isn't that right? Then he shouldn't tell me and the chamber that we're making up amounts, right? Or he'll have to correct it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u257	No. Mr Nijboer is doing it handy again, but he is really trying to make another misunderstanding here that there is not. I repeat here that if we get this all working, it will be investment of many tens of billions. But this is different from the fact that I'm probably borrowing that money in the short term and then sitting around waiting for those projects. That is a fundamental difference. Suppose, quite theoretically, that there are no projects that meet those criteria at all, whereas those criteria have been devised in a sensible way, after consulting the Chamber. Then the money only burns in the pocket when it's ready, right? Isn't that exactly where you're getting the wrong argument?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u258	I have a little doubt whether the Minister's remark was genius or a huge open door. He said: this fund can only be successful if we do it right. I thought, "Yeah, that's pretty much true of everything." Is it not, on balance, a political assessment of what we are doing with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u259	Why exactly did I say it like I just said it would only work if we did it right? By "doing the right thing," I mean the governance, the structure and how we can now work together in 2020. I said that because that's going to matter for the future success or failure of this. Obviously, I see the risks. Of course, the Ministry has rightly pointed out the risks. I have also been reminded of what has worked and what has not worked in the past. But if you believe that there is something going on in the long term and if you believe that low interest rates are indeed an opportunity, then at least you will have to explore this very seriously. That's exactly what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u260	I fully agree with that, but I would like to point out, for example, the Norwegian State Fund. It was agreed that a maximum of 4.2% would be achieved each year. It turns out that in times when the right-wing parties are in charge, that is 6.5%. Some 2.5, 3% of the left-wing parties. It's political choices on balance that you spend it on. We had a debate here last year on dividend taxation. When all the arguments were pretty much over why we were going to give 2.5 billion without knowing what it was for, Mr Dijkhoff said: it's in our party's DNA that we want low taxes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u261	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u262	My question is, and I say this again, is it not politically coloured? Aren't we a little too naive? It can't be that it's neutral, can it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u263	Yes and no. Of course, and this is how it should be in a democracy, the representative of the people must and will always have the last word. Let's say that in 2020 we will be able to design something very sensible with each other. And suppose ten years later there are people who are less sensible or who think that the spirit of time has changed or whatever, and who decide to make a completely different choice. If they want that with 51% in both chambers of the States-General, they are free to do so. This is inherent in the democratic system. The same applies to budgetary rules. What if tomorrow a majority of the House says we're gonna throw it all away and start spending three times as much from the day after tomorrow and do all the taxes twice. Then I suspect that some members of the cabinet, including myself, would say: give my share to Fikkie. But if the parliament were to do so by 51%, it would free the parliament in itself, regardless of whether it is sensible or unwise. And that's how it's supposed to be in a democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u264	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u265	Not in conclusion, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u266	Yes, I do. Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u267	This is my first interruption. I listened for two and a half hours.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u268	No, Mr. Azarkan, your last question at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u269	Mr President, I have another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u270	Then you'll ask it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u271	That's what I'm gonna do. Thank you for the opportunity to ask questions as a representative of the people. The Minister has spoken a number of times about governance and the criteria. I'm less interested in that. I think you should first know why you're doing it and what the goal is. Can the Minister say a little more about that? Is that fund supposed to generate money? Is that supposed to generate returns?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u272	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u273	Should it be carrying out projects that would not otherwise be feasible? Is that supposed to produce some kind of social return? What exactly is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u274	It should contribute to long-term economic growth. I would also like to thank Mr Azarkan for this question. That also shows exactly that this is different from his Norwegian example. Because the Norwegian example is, like one of the two funds that one has in Singapore, what is in good Dutch called a "sovereign wealth fund." That means that you then put the money in assets, where those assets render and you use the return that comes out of it to pay things off. That's a different choice than this. This is money that you put into, for example, an infrastructure project, knowledge development or R&D. That must be reflected in the sense that it contributes to economic growth, but as Minister of Finance I do not want to see money from it again. So it is a social investment and not a financial investment, if I may put it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u275	Then I'll go to Mr. Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u276	The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance sees the potential of the future fund. That's what I'm gonna call it, because I think that's the most beautiful name. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is also looking forward to the discussion on criteria and governance, and hopefully it will also take into account the question of why we are doing it outside the budget in a fund. I had a serious question about benefits and burdens, and I hope the Minister will take this into account in the study. Firstly, it gives insight and, secondly, it could be a way of preventing us from doing wrong things with that fund again. I think that I am also speaking on behalf of the rapporteur, Mr Sneller, when I say that it is quite obvious to give such a fund a form of income burden.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u277	No, to clear up a misunderstanding right away: let me take the question of whether the income burden form is logical for the fund or for parts of the fund, in the direction and research we are doing now. I would simply have misunderstood Mr Snels' question. I thought he was also wondering if the fund meant we could expect an acceleration of the pilot projects we're running at IenW and Defense. Let me take that question explicitly. I do not want to anticipate the answer, given that I do not want to anticipate the answer anywhere in this regard. But that's what I'll come back to the Chamber for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u278	I think it would be wise for the Minister to put a fence on this idea. Because we all know that once there seems to be money somewhere, politicians will be there when the chickens are around. With this he puts himself in the good tradition of his predecessor Lieftinck. In my contribution, I have talked all the time about an investment agenda and not an investment fund, because I believe that this country has no shortage of funds. We've got plenty of funds.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u279	Very much so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u280	We need a vision of the future of this country: what are we going to make our money from? For example, we already have an Infrastructure Fund, but at the same time we see that almost all the money that goes from the Infrastructure Fund goes to maintenance and not to new, innovative forms of work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u281	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u282	The question is: can the Minister share with me the view that we need an investment agenda that will finance innovative forms of knowledge and infrastructure and that we will not finance current expenditure?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u283	Absolutely. It is, of course, about ensuring that you invest in the country in such a way that you do not consume so that the country's long-term earning capacity is improved. I am, of course, not concerned with that idea of a fund or what you call the vehicle and certainly not with that somewhat infantile discussion about its name. But I think it is very important that, if we try to do this, we minimise the chance that this will become part of the conversation that we also need to have with each other and that is relevant but that is another conversation, namely the conversation about how we divide the cake. That conversation starts in spring, ends in August and continues until today. Because then we would be right back at: yes, but then I actually want to get out of the fund x or y and then I stretch the scope a little bit. We really need to avoid that discussion at all costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u284	That's good. I hear 'a fence', I hear 'democratic control' and I hear that there has to be a fight in advance about what this really is going to be spent on. There I hear a determined Minister of Finance. Then I think there's one more challenge. I am very curious how the Minister of Finance sees it. In the near future, we see a multitude of societal transitions: the energy transition, the climate transition and the housing demand. I gave this example yesterday: should houses still have a parking space if you are going to build good public transport? Because that is good for everyone, including for less nitrogen and less CO. In short, how are we going to bring these social transitions together across the departmental divisions?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u285	I understand very well what Mr Bruins is saying. He's actually saying, there's a huge amount of transition problems. I recognize that, but this fund is not going to be a solution to all these transition problems. These are the transition problems that society has in full width. It is already a much narrower scope in the agenda regarding the earning capacity and the growth letter, which the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Affairs comes up with. That also makes perfect sense. I will look into this and he will consult all the members of the cabinet on it, but it falls fully within his policy area. Inside you have one thing that the discussion has now been about, namely to what extent you can increase your earning power by means of a fund, that is, by means of additional investments, independently of the state budget........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ That is what the Minister of Economic Affairs and Climate Affairs and I are working on together. Mr Bruins must see the debate in this 'wide to narrow'.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u286	Then I'll go to Mr... Mr Bruins' last comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u287	I don't know how far the growth letter is at the moment, but I'd like that growth letter to reason from the outside, also bearing in mind the Compatability Act. If we know why we want this as a country, then we can define it well later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u288	Okay, that was a comment, not a question. Mr. Slootweg. Oh, did you guys agree on who gets to go first? Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u289	Yes, because I would like to join Mr Bruins' renewal agenda. The Minister talks about long-term sustainable growth, the earning capacity. In my opinion, he takes a very narrow definition of this, because if you would like to use the normal growth potential of the Netherlands again, as stated in the Millions Note, which is 1.8% to 2% of the Dutch footprint, that means a doubling in about 30 years of the Netherlands' footprint. That is simply not sustainable. The Minister indicated that it must be Paris proof, but does the Minister agree with me that it must also be within the limits of the broad concept of prosperity and that it is not about the narrow economic principles?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u290	In the work assignment, I am really going to stick to the scope as formulated in the Millions Note. There's not nothing there about Paris for nothing. I just tried to point that out with the example of petrochemicals. That is already dangerous, because before you know it, I am discussing the following example. But what Mr Van Raan wants, and what I understand from his orientation, is really something else. That is why I said to Mr Bruins in an interim manner: this fund will not be the solution of everything. We have to leave that idea, too. This idea is intended for long-term economic growth and projects that can contribute to it. The government estimates that it will be projects related to knowledge development, infrastructure and R&D.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u291	Then it seems to me that the Minister is not aware that current economic growth is the problem. That's what's causing us a climate crisis. As a result, we have a biodiversity crisis. So the economic growth he advocates, the way it is now formulated in the Millions Note, is not sustainable. It's very simple. Why can't the Minister see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u292	Then we are back to a greater political disagreement between the Party for Animals and the Cabinet. We are not going to make that difference in this debate, even and certainly not through the fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u293	I don't think so, either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u294	I still want to do something about expectations management. Does the note on this fund, which is to come, also address the relationship with, for example, Invest-NL and the question whether it is possible for public-private funding to emerge from it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u295	Absolutely, absolutely. Both answers will be answered. I would like to take this opportunity to emphasise once again that this is really something else than Invest-NL. But we will answer all these questions in detail to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u296	A fund like that is a pretty good idea, I think. But what just came down to in the debate with Mr Van Raan, of course, is a very fundamental point. If you're gonna free up money, who's gonna decide where it's going? I do feel what the Minister says: real investment in long-term matters, such as the development of a knowledge infrastructure and that sort of thing. But how do we prevent the socialists from using it for a welfare state to maintain anno, as they have done with our fantastic gas benefits, and from using the animals for all kinds of sustainability madness?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u297	The assignment is ours. The examples are for Mr Baudet. But the mission is to ensure that by 2020 we shape it in a sensible way in terms of governance and scope. I think that, just the generations after us, those who come after us, we will be delighted if we succeed. But it's really a sine qua nun condition to do that, I guess. That's one. Two. Then I will be back to the democratic part of my reply just now. If people decide by majority in 10, 20 or 30 years' time to make a fundamentally different choice, that is the prerogatives of democracy. An insurance for now and all eternity can give no one, but that applies to every item and every budget expenditure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u298	That's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u299	That is also good to see. Who was before? Mr. Alkaya, or Mr. Sneller? Mr. Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u300	I am pleased that those were at least reassuring words for Mr Baudet. The line in the Millions note I have always looked at to point out the fund is: productivity growth is needed to ensure an increase in prosperity in the broad sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u301	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u302	I therefore ask the Minister not to make the difference, as Mr Van Raan describes it, too great. Because it is true that productivity growth does not mean that you will first reduce certain aspects of broad prosperity and then try to increase it again. However, the idea must be that productivity growth will increase broad prosperity.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u303	No, the text, every sentence in that piece, is there consciously as it says. What it doesn't say, it doesn't say. But I know my pappenheimers. I'm pretty sure I can estimate the inspiration that lies behind the various questions of this and that. So I do not want to suggest to Mr Van Raan that this is anything other than what the cabinet is trying to do with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u304	For Mr Van Raan, I think it is a very reassuring idea that more and more economic growth is being decoupled from the growth of CO emissions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u305	Sure, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u306	So I think this can go hand in hand. The Minister is always talking in the note about the longer term that this is needed, while he is also taking graphs just above that which show that productivity growth has been declining for a very long time and that it is relatively low, already. So if he says that the task is to put the governance and the criteria in place by 2020, I think it is indeed the call to ensure that we do not have to wait very long before the first projects can start, because the need is now there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u307	Two things. I have tried to point out that I think the challenge is right in the long term. It is precisely when you look 15 to 20 years ahead that you see that the situation with more robotisation, artificial intelligence, but also with ageing and low productivity growth in itself, is likely to only strengthen. I think it makes sense to look at the long term. I very much agree with what Mr Sneller and his group chairman have said: let us try to ensure that we do not wait unnecessarily long. I very much agree with that. I would very much like to see a first project launched in or shortly after this cabinet period. Only, I've been impatient before, and I also know that these things really take time. The ambition to start quickly, to do it quickly and really reap all the benefits over the next decade, I'm sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u308	Last remark, Mr. Faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u309	Especially since artificial intelligence and robotisation can enhance productivity, you need to be there now and invest in it now, so that you can also reap those benefits.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u310	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u311	This is a call and not a question. Mr. Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u312	It's a call I support, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u313	Good. Mr. Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u314	I waited a while, but I still have a personal fact. I believe that at the moment I am the only one in this Chamber who calls himself a socialist. Mr Baudet spoke about what the Socialists would like with this fund. I have not yet got involved in this debate. What the Socialists want with this fund, I think the Socialists themselves can best express.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u315	Good. No, wait a minute, Mr. Baudet. You're not getting the floor. Mr. Alkaya was still in the process. No. Mr. Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u316	I welcome the course taken. I really see this as a trend break. I can also imagine that it must be a fund that sets a good example to the public authorities and is going to invest in those things that the private sector does not take on its own. This means that we are working on services for citizens who will also be able to contribute to the economy and to broad prosperity in the future, as the Minister stresses. I would simply ask the Minister to confirm that certain sectors are not excluded in advance. These things can also be in the healthcare sector and in education, such as laboratories at universities and the like. It is not the case that sectors are already excluded from this fund in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u317	I really want to stay tight on the text that has been agreed. I do not want to repeat it, because Mr Alkaya knows it. I would also like to thank him for his positive basic attitude. Maybe I can say that more broadly, too, Mr. Chairman? I believe that many in the Chamber see the risks and also see what is needed in the area of governance. They also see that the blood always crawls where it can't go. But I count my blessings, because I have heard from many, even far beyond the coalition, that they are looking at this with a positive basic attitude.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u318	No, Mr. Nijboer. I'm gonna go see the minister anyway, 'cause I think he was almost done. At least?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u319	I wanted to count my blessings on the positive attitude. That's what got me to the block.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u320	Mr. Nijboer, only if a question has remained. Hasn't your question been answered? Because you've just been to this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u321	That's right, Mr. Chairman, but I've been waiting nicely for us to come up with this. It's a very simple question. Why was a separate fund chosen? Can investment not be financed through the state budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u322	That is precisely the discussion I have just had with a number of Members of your Chamber, but frankly they were asking me in the opposite direction as Mr Nijboer is now doing. When this becomes part of the regular budgetary process, you immediately get the distribution question. I think we'll all see. That is the nature of politics. That debate must be held, but in a very broad Chamber majority and in myself there is a need to consider, with respect for all democratic control, whether you can organise it so that you are not tempted twice a year to do other things about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u323	Then I suggest you finish up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u324	Which brings me to block 5. I don't know if that's the same as finishing, Mr President, but I think it can be done pretty quickly. It's the other block. I should like to begin by thanking Mr Snels, Mr Nijboer, Mrs Leijten and Mr Alkaya sincerely for their counter-budget. I believe that we have exchanged many of the differences in content, but I know from my own experience that drawing up a budget takes quite some time, so I very much appreciate that that has been done. Mr Sneller, Mr Van Raan and Mr Van Otterloo asked about Air France-KLM. For the record, we have taken this route because we think it is extremely important, especially for Dutch interests and for the economy, to have a completely equal position to that of the French State. That's one. The second point is that we would like Air France-KLM to pay attention to the combination of the best airline in Europe. So that has been the inspiration and I do notice the big difference with the period before. I'm not alone in that, by the way. For example, read the farewell interview of the chairman of the Supervisory Board of the KLM itself. So that's really going to be a lot wider, I guess. Now we are at the stage where we are putting the i on the edge of a number of questions that have to do with governance. That is what my people and I do with great enthusiasm, with the enterprise and with the French state. I think we can take steps in the next six months to do so, and I hope so too, but here, of course, a negotiator who is in a hurry could do himself no harm. I sensed some impatience here and there in the Chamber, but I would like to say to the Chamber that it seems to me to be a bad advisor. We see that the playing field has really changed. As I personally see, the conversations have changed, because we just have a different and significantly better position.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u325	I see that one of the Members wishes to intervene, but I would like to give the Minister the opportunity to finish this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u326	With regard to broad prosperity, I would like to thank Mr Snels for his compliments in the first term. I have also really tried to pay attention to this, as we have often exchanged it over the past year. There is a trajectory on whether and if so how we can integrate this into the wider policy process. It also discussed planning agencies, the Council of State and the Court of Auditors. On the outcome of this process, the Minister of EZK will inform the Chamber and I think that will happen even this calendar year. Mr. Chairman. There has been a lot of talk about the ECB and quite diametrically by Mr Van Dijck. To be honest, I wanted to say a few words about that. It was a bit the same type of debate as last week in the committee room during the debate on the ECB. The Netherlands Bank is an institute of great reputation and high quality, where men and women are working very hard every day to serve the public interest. The same applies to the President, Klaas Knot, who, in my view, is extremely competent in doing so, both at home and abroad. That is my firm conviction. If it is the case that the Chamber is critical of this, then I must be politically responsible, because I am responsible for De Nederlandsche Bank. Mr. Chairman. Mrs De Vries asked about the employment rate and labour productivity. I believe that we have discussed both issues before in the debate. Mr Sneller asked about the mortgage interest deduction and how we could still work towards a further reduction. Mr Sneller knows exactly what we agreed and did not agree to in the cabinet. I think he also recognizes more widely in the housing market dossier that we are taking really strong steps, but that there are very different political views on this too. I would like to underline with him that we have already done a number of things, for example with regard to LTV, but that the Dutch economy is very volatile in two ways. One is the international component and the second is the housing market, but I do not have an immediate solution for that. Mr Van Otterloo asked about ABN AMRO and what was published in the press last week. I have sent a letter on this before this debate, which I would like to refer briefly to, also because I cannot say anything about a case which lies with the Public Prosecutor and I do not have a role in it as Minister of Finance. Mr Sneller and others asked about ABN AMRO's exit strategy. In that is the coalition agreement leading. ABN AMRO will be brought to the market as quickly as justified as possible, but I am not in a position to make any further announcements about it, because it can all potentially be price sensitive. I shouldn't do that, and the Chamber shouldn't want to know, other than in a closed session. Then Mr Snels asked about the agricultural sector. I think he had an exchange of views on this last night on television. The first question is, of course, whether there is a specific problem that is related to the PAS. Honestly, that hasn't become me yet. So I would first like to understand a little better from Mr Snels why it would be a problem. The next question is, of course, who is responsible. I think that starts, if anyone has a role to play, with the banks and with De Nederlandsche Bank, and not primarily with the Minister of Finance. But I'd like to take it one step at a time. Then I would like to say to Mr Van Raan that De Nederlandsche Bank concludes that Dutch banks have limited exposure in countries most vulnerable to climate change, regardless of the broader discussion we have of course about what banks themselves do in the field of greening. Mr Slootweg asked whether the AFM had sufficient capacity, especially in the area of climate-related risks. We talk about the AFM more often. Mrs Leijten and, in my opinion, Mr Nijboer have also asked questions about this, but more so in the discussion whether we are prepared for the Brexit and whether we are prepared for control at DNB and AFM, for example in relation to trusts. In my opinion, the AFM's signals are really such that we have sufficient capacity at the moment. But this is a subject that I have to focus on, precisely because this capacity debate is really about more than just the climate. There has been a lot of talk about pensions, but I have to repeat what I said last week. A motion has been passed by the Chamber. The Minister of SZW is doing his homework and I don't want to walk through it. Then there is the negative interest rate and a possible ban.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u327	I'll see how many points you have left.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u328	I'm almost done right now. Of course, I'm slightly intimidated by the fact that Mr. Baudet's been staring at me all along.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u329	Yes, that is the intention of Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u330	I'll talk a little bit more. Of course, I had a lot of exchanges with the Chamber last week about the negative interest rate. I believe that the Chamber has allowed me to buy some time, to talk to the banks and also to make clear what is not desirable there. So maybe we can let that happen for a while. Mr Sneller asked about the case of Khashoggi, I think exactly a year ago today. This is, of course, a terrible event, which I think the cabinet has also been very explicit about. We continue to call for a thorough, credible and transparent investigation. This in itself lies more with others in the cabinet, but of course I have also expressed my deep concern to my colleague, the time I saw him again afterwards. The Party for Animals asked about livestock and trade. For specific questions on the trade agreement with Brazil, I really have to refer to Mr Kaag, because I cannot force that on here. Mr. Chairman. Then I have a very courteous text to you about the closure of the AFB, but I do not yet pronounce it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u331	Good. Then I'm going to see Mr. Tony van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u332	In fact, I would like to make a point of order on that other block. Almost my entire first contribution was about pensions; this is now being cancelled. We have talked about ABN; it is now over. So I have four or five follow-up questions. I know you want to suspend.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u333	It's up to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u334	So I'm sorry to tear this off for suspension...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u335	No, not at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u336	...and that we're all starving...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u337	No, you can ask your questions. I've got plenty of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u338	..infested by hunger now keep it here very short.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u339	That's different.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u340	Mr. Chairman. For the record, I had, I have and I make of course all the time. But for a while. The first is that Mr Van Dijck has said a great deal but has asked relatively little for his work in the first term. As far as pensions are concerned, there is a motion which I believe also includes the PVV, to which some people have referred in the debate. It has been said: let Minister Koolmees do his homework. So it's getting a little complicated to take that back here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u341	Mr Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u342	To start with ABN AMRO. We received a letter yesterday from this minister, and it shows that three days before it became public as the largest shareholder of ABN AMRO, he already knew that there was a criminal investigation into this bank in relation to fraud and money laundering. Is it normal for the largest shareholder to know three days before it becomes public knowledge that such an investigation is under way and know what it's going to do for the price? If he had been smart, he would have thrown that 56% into the market on 23 September, and we would now be 2 billion richer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u343	I know Mr Van Dijck well enough to know that he wants to spend all that in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u344	And you catch it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u345	But I'm serious. I started laughing because Mr Van Dijck knows very well what my answer is going to be, because I exchanged it with him in the case at the other bank that we discussed earlier. The Minister of Finance has no role in criminal routes. He also has no other position because he is currently a temporary shareholder of two banks. It's very simple. I believe that my immediate predecessor has changed that, but it could have been the one before that. But I think it was Minister Dijsselbloem who said at some point that it was rather uncomfortable to learn this type of information literally when opening the morning magazine and to be informed. I'll be briefed on it in advance. That was the case in the case ING and that was the case here again, in this case on Monday afternoon.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u346	Mr. Tony van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u347	It is now being used lightly, but for the same reason an issue was planned on 27 September. Now you'll hear it on September 23rd. Would you have said to your official summit: you know what, wait four days to bring out the criminal investigation, because it's going to cost us a lot of money. We've seen it: 2 billion. It is strange that the minister, as the largest shareholder, is reported on such a criminal investigation three days before it becomes public knowledge.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u348	We're dealing with anything that could be price sensitive incredibly securely. There are all the protocols for this, which I believe the Chamber knows, and which are respected from a to z. That's what I can say about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u349	I want to take a look. I see you standing, Mr. Baudet. I thought the minister would be ready, but there are a lot of questions about that part. It is important to answer these questions in an orderly manner. If it's very brief, I'll give you the floor, but I'd like to suspend for lunch. Then we'll vote and we'll have the arrangement. After that, we'll start with questions that haven't been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u350	Mr. President, I really...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u351	You've been saying that for half an hour or an hour.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u352	I think there is still Mr Van Dijck's question as to why Klaas Knot does not quit. I just indicated that I think he's capable and that I think he shouldn't quit. I do not have all these questions on the list one by one, but the introductory remark was helpful to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u353	Good. Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u354	I wanted to say something at the last point. I insist that Klaas Knot does not understand the euro. That is because I suspect he does not know how fiat money works, or because he thinks there will be a cultural convergence of northern and southern Europe, which will eventually take over northern budgetary discipline by southern Europe. If you believe that, there is a possibility to see the future in the euro coin in the long term. But if you don't believe that, there's no future in that. Do you agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u355	Mr Baudet had less qualifying views on the President of De Nederlandsche Bank than the PVV Group. Of course, I'm not one of them. That is also apparent from my comment in the introduction. I think the president is someone of great quality and integrity, and I think he's doing his job very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u356	It is now specifically about one thing, namely putting a single currency on all very different countries. Is that gonna work in the longer term, yes or no? What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u357	Then we are back to another debate which I do not see either how Mr Knot still works in it. It is clear that if we were to introduce the euro now, or if we had known what we know now when we adopt the euro, we would obviously want to deal with a number of issues that have been under pressure over the last few years. Think of elements of the Banking Union. Think of things to do with buffers. Because of damage and shame, we learned a lot in the crisis. We are now in the euro, which, by the way, brings a lot of benefits, especially for the Netherlands. I'm dealing with the world as it is and not with the world as it might be.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u358	Finally, Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u359	The banking arrangements, the buffer arrangements, will only work if Southern Europe adheres to that budgetary discipline. You can agree with me, can't you? We can say here that the implication of that agreement is that they will be kept. If we look at the world as it is and not like you and other Euro fantastic people who would like to see it, we can see that the Greeks, the Italians and other southern European countries are simply not going to do so. That is the reality! Who's the realist of the two of us? That's me!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u360	This goes back to a debate that I often have with the Chamber, where I very often point out to the Chamber that I think it would help enormously for individual Member States, for the European Union as a whole and in particular for the euro countries to choose the path of a sustainable economic growth, b reforms and c budgets that are in order. Of course, I am not satisfied with each of those countries about how it has fulfilled that. Mr Baudet immediately makes a rather fatalistic link with what would happen next, and I do not share it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-5.u361	I'm gonna make the proposal to suspend. Then we will get back to this discussion right after the work is done, because I also see that Mr Sneller wants to ask a question. However, Mr Slootweg has been there for a long time, so I shall start with Mr Slootweg first.
