ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Legal Protection. We have seven speakers from the Chamber. Mr. Van den Berge is about to make his maiden speech. We will be the first to listen to Mrs Van Toorenburg of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I can still see the banner hanging: "Nice to the beach with your anklet." It was the protest of the staff of the PI Haaglanden at the time of the unfortunate plan to go much more often and much more to electronic detention. Fortunately, we've managed to reverse that tide, but we're not there yet. We hear too often that dangerous people have ended up out of sight, and that defies the sense of security and the sense of justice of people in our country. This debate was requested by us because we had been informed again that someone who was dangerous had withdrawn from surveillance and had been spotted at a place where he had a location ban. That was terrifying for victims, for next of kin. In fact, the Minister's letter does not show how it is possible that someone could walk around Tilburg despite his anklet and the ban on territory without being noticed in good time. What went wrong here? Thanks to the busy agenda of the Chambers, we are having this debate now, and that is why we have also received the Minister's recent figures. Then we'll notice something. It is becoming more and more common for people to withdraw from supervision and/or sabotage with that anklet. That is only 1%, but only one person has to be in between who eventually, in the same way as in Tilburg, gets out of the picture and gets somewhere he shouldn't be. No one knows, and eventually we'll find out what happened afterwards. Is the Minister aware that this increase represents an additional risk? What also struck me is that 101 people have withdrawn from that surveillance 103 times. So that means someone's been able to do it more often. How is it that someone got an anklet, then apparently got out of sight, got out of sight, maybe sabotaged, and then got an anklet again? I don't think that's the point. I want to know why someone gets the chance to do this twice. I would also like to know from the Minister about the people who are still fugitive. Are we going to make sure these people end up serving their sentence? We read that the Minister wants to ensure that all ankle straps are wired this year. I have a technical question. Does it all work via GPS or are there any other ankle bracelets that, I understand, work with radio waves? Mr. Chairman. Let me get this straight. We reported it last time, and I'll come back to it anyway. We would like to see you excluded from judicial supervision with this form eventually punishable. There is an investigation by the WODC into this, but we want it to be involved in the debate on the bill on punishment and protection and that ultimately it becomes criminal if someone sabotages with an ankle band to evade supervision. I would very much like to have that confirmed by the Minister. There have also been a number of failures, failures in the electronic monitoring system. Part of it went out. That is a very bad thing. It may be due to a malfunction with the service provider, but then the question is whether there is some kind of backup. Are there a number of people who are being kept extra in view? It doesn't seem like a bad idea to find out if you need something in the system if anything falls out in vital sectors. As a result, you can always move on to another system, because they are people who are sometimes dangerous and are not allowed to be anywhere. The second malfunction was more recent. Rumors keep buzzing about it being a hack. I should like to hear from the Minister clearly that this is not the case. Can he give that clarity? Mr. Chairman. Then I tried to look creatively at the whole instrument of electronic detention, because can we not use it more often with people who have come into forensic care, whether or not with a judicial title? Some people want you to have in that atmosphere too. If we know that a man is completely obsessed with his mother, then if he had had an anklet and had been outside, you want to know where he was at the time. Mr. Chairman. In short: the CDA has nothing against electronic detention if it is controlled in the final phase of the detention phase, but with security valves that work. How will the Minister ensure that this is achieved?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mrs Van Toorenburg. I now give the floor to Mr Van Nispen of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mr. Chairman. An anklet is a valuable instrument during probation surveillance and it is safer than the alternative, i.e. without an anklet on the street. With this anklet, conditions that have been imposed, such as a land ban, can be effectively controlled. In addition to this control function, the anklet also works as a stick behind the door and can help to structure the daily life of the suspect or offender, which in turn can lead to better socialisation in society. And that serves safety. But then we must be able to rely on careful implementation. We are having this debate, among other things, because of the one thing that went completely wrong with electronic surveillance. That case isn't entirely on its own. A killer who had been banned from Tilburg's territory cut his anklet and then just stayed in Tilburg for months, without consequences. The risks of this criminal were completely misjudged. To the extent of disaster, the relatives were not informed of the fact that the criminal had violated his terms. How is the Minister going to make sure that something like this doesn't happen in the future in this way, that it can't do that anymore? As far as the SP is concerned, we should always look closely at who gets such an anklet. In other words, good risk analysis must be carried out before anyone claims freedoms under conditions at all. What are the risks of escape or recurrence? The Minister would discuss how the judge, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Judicial Institutions could be better informed about the risks and how the probation could improve this assessment. Now, in yesterday's letter, the Minister says that there is little profit to be made. I don't get it. What exactly does the Minister mean? Because I have questions about the role of probation in this whole thing. Do the probation workers have sufficient time and capacity to carry out that risk analysis thoroughly? Is it true that the probation can investigate contraindications such as flight risk, but ultimately only has an advisory role in the question of whether electronic control is technically feasible and that ultimately the client, OM, judiciary or DJI, decides whether the anklet is actually used or not? In how many cases is this opinion not followed? Does the Minister consider it desirable to oppose the recommendation of the parole board? Then again that case that led to this debate, the criminal who cut his anklet. On October 21st, that man cut his anklet. Then you would expect everything to be done to get ahold of and secure that person as soon as possible. But it took almost six months for that person to be arrested. How could this have taken so long? As far as the SP is concerned, it is of the utmost importance that there is always a rapid response to incidents, for example the cutting of such an anklet. The simple question to the Minister is: is there sufficient capacity for that? I agree with Mr Van Toorenburg's question. I've been approached by people who work in a forensic psychiatric clinic where recently some people didn't return leave or didn't return on time, sometimes with a criminal record, but sometimes they were people who are a danger to themselves or their environment. Psychiatric patients who were lost causing panic. Can they get an anklet as part of their gradual return to society? Is that a possibility? If so, will that happen? If not, why not? Would that have added value? Would the Minister care to think about that? Then the point of the reliability of the technique. There have recently been malfunctions. That should not be possible! Those systems should be waterproof and not nearly reliable. Can the Minister give guarantees on this? Can backup systems be provided, if necessary, to take over in the event of malfunctions? That may sound very simple, but I think it should be that simple. The Minister promises to get better, but what about it? Will these announced measures prevent us from having to deal with malfunctions again? I too would like to know what is going on with the Minister's reflection on the possible criminalisation of withdrawals. The WODC would investigate this and it is expected to be completed in early 2019. How's this going? Has the Minister decided whether that would be desirable? Does that at least leave the professional space of the parole officer? Finally, reducing the use of ankle straps does not, in my opinion, make society safer, but I am critical of the implementation. So let's definitely look at where this can be better and more carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u5	Thank you, Mr. Van Nispen. We've received a message of obstruction from Mrs. Chicken. Since Mr.Van den Berge is giving his maiden speech and is expecting a number of guests, we will now continue with Mr.Van Wijngaarden of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u6	Mr. Chairman. I would first like to say something about the anklet in a general sense. For let it be clear: for the VVD it is in no way a replacement of the four walls, of deprivation of liberty. It is in no way an alternative to punishment. It is a means of control to ensure that people comply with a commandment or ban and to ensure that people do not go wrong again, or a means that you use as a precaution. But that's all it is; it's not an alternative to punishment. Almost everyone who has to go to prison in the Netherlands will eventually go back to society. That's not easy, and part of it goes wrong again. Of course, no one wants that. The only alternative that is safer than the anklet is to lock everyone up for a long time without criminal proceedings and to give life. We don't want to, and we can't. That could only happen in a world where everything is black or white, right or wrong, and ugly or beautiful. As Mr Van Nispen said, releasing people without ankle bracelets is more dangerous than doing so with ankle bracelets. However, it is important that if there are malfunctions or if ankle bracelets are cut, the possibilities for improvement will be considered. Luckily, that's what's gonna happen. We read that in a letter yesterday. I'd like to know what's going on with the Secretary of State. When it comes to the risk assessment made to assess the flight risk of people, what possibilities does he see in that risk assessment itself? Then I'm gonna come to the withdrawal of state surveillance. We have pointed out a long time ago that this weighs heavily on our part and that it must also have serious consequences. We are now preparing an amendment to the Penalty and Protection Act in the background. I'll give you: there are several roads that lead to Rome, so we'll just have to see how we're going to do that. Our proposal is: if you withdraw from state surveillance, one year in prison, and if you escape, four years in prison. The special thing is that helping escape is now punishable, but not escape itself. The lesser crime is therefore punishable. That is a strange figure that we have been calling attention to for some time now. We know there's an investigation going on at the WODC. I also have a part of the short-term report which states that this should be completed by now. So our patience is being put to the test after all. Every day that goes by without the escape and sabotage of ankle bracelets being punishable is really a day too much for us. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u7	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr van den Berge from GroenLinks. He'll make his maiden speech here. It is a good use of the Chamber not to interrupt, but of course the speaker should not go full in attacking other parties! The floor is yours, Mr Van den Berge. Congratulations on your election as a member of the Lower House of States General.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I know it's a good practice for new MPs here to start with a personal anecdote. Now I've spent the whole Whitsuntide weekend breaking my head about that, and frankly I don't have any personal experiences with the ankle bracelet, at least not with the electronic ankle bracelet! So I'm gonna have to disappoint my colleagues today. I think it's a great honor to be standing here today. I once, at a very young age, became politically active. That was also here, during the National Youth debate. I noticed very quickly that having ideals alone is not enough: if you really want to achieve something, it will have to happen here, in the political arena. That is why I am standing here on behalf of GroenLinks to build a greener, more social and more inclusive society. I'm really excited about that. Mr. Chairman. Let's get to the ankle bracelets. Our group considers electronic surveillance to be a useful tool for the gradual return of suspects and convicted persons in society. It offers them the opportunity to return to their lives, and it offers victims the relative certainty that they do not need to be confronted with their perpetrators in their own environment. But the anklet isn't meant to replace a pre-trial or prison sentence. I would like to emphasise this because this picture is sometimes wrong. The anklet is really a preventative tool for monitoring that suspects comply with the conditions and agreements. In the Minister's replies we read that in most cases this goes well, but public opinion is, of course, mainly influenced by the cases where it goes wrong. And that makes perfect sense. This leads to social unrest, to incomprehension, and I understand that very well. You'll only be a victim and get a call that your unsub is at large without an anklet. In this debate, I am not so much concerned with whether an anklet is cut. Because even an analog version of, for example, iron or stainless steel can eventually be sabotaged. The ultimate safe anklet doesn't exist. However, we do support the Minister in his efforts to make the ankle straps stronger, firmer. But my group is also particularly interested in the question of how robust the system of probation and detection is at the moment when something goes wrong. How quickly are the proverbial bells and bells pulled out of the closet in order to track down and reattach a convicted or suspected person who withdraws from supervision? Is it possible, on the basis of previous sabotages, to say something about early indications that carriers no longer want to comply with the conditions of electronic surveillance? I'd like a response from the Minister. Can we learn lessons from that for the future? Mr. Chairman. Then I have a number of questions about disruptions to the mobile network and its impact on electronic surveillance. A number of colleagues had questions about this earlier. Honestly, I don't understand that a software update can disrupt data traffic in this way. An update is, I presume, planned and then you have a backup plan. Or do I really think it's too simple, that's what I'm asking the Minister. After all, we are not talking about the update of a smartphone. We're talking about a serious case here. So I'm curious how it can happen that disturbances so often lead to problems. In 2019 alone three times, the Minister's letter has been read. At the same time, such a malfunction is, of course, a very nice stress test for the system to see how parole and detectives react to such a malfunction. That is why I ask the Minister what lessons he learns from the failures and how he has responded to them. Mr. Chairman. I'll come to a conclusion. As has been said, the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance believes that electronic ankle straps are an important tool for bringing suspects back to society, to suspects and to convicted persons in a responsible manner. But that must be done as safely as possible, and I hope that we can take steps forward together today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u9	Thank you, Mr. Van den Berge. A fine contribution, as if you've been standing here for years. I'd be honored to be the first to congratulate you. Then I'll suspend for a few moments. You may stand for the congratulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u10	I give the floor to Mr Markuszower of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by welcoming the previous speaker, who just gave his maiden speech, to the House of Representatives and to congratulate him on his maiden speech. I just couldn't interrupt the GroenLinks group because it was a maiden speech, but I promise you that we will often cross swords here. Mr. Chairman. The PVV's position on electronic detention as a replacement of part of a custodial sentence imposed by the judge has always been clear. The PVV considers that penalties imposed by the court should be served in full. The criminal targets include not only prevention but also repression. In the first place, punishment must also be seen as punishment, and not as a means of getting used to society with an ankle bracelet. The PVV would like to know from the Minister whether he also believes that at least convicted murderers, terrorists and rapists should under no circumstances be imposed an anklet, because it is precisely when they commit a criminal offence while wearing an anklet or having cut them loose that is obviously unacceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u12	There is an interruption by Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u13	We have talked about it before, but I can't help but mention it again. Then what is the PVV's proposal? We all agree that people should sit longer, that conditional release should be shorter. Is the PVV's idea of kicking them out cold turkey with their garbage bags at the prison door? Or is there the idea that we have that idea that you will still have to make a soft landing and that this is in the interests of victims and relatives?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u14	We've crossed swords before. Maybe I will come back to this later in my contribution, also on those points. But first let's make sure there's a hard landing or a soft landing. It's what you want, Mrs Van Toorenburg, and then at least a landing in the cell. So if we have a criminal... We often don't have them, because the minister's device doesn't pick them up. They walk freely, or if they have an anklet, they disappear. We've lost four. I also wanted to ask the Minister: where are the four who disappeared wearing an anklet? But first, let's all make sure that if there's a criminal, a rapist, a murderer, or a terrorist, who just stays in jail for the full time he's supposed to be in jail according to the judge. I would also add that the penalties in the Netherlands are too low. Let them stay in that cell for a long time. I also understand that they are released at some point. By the way, the very serious criminals aren't getting out of the PVV. I think they should stay in prison for the rest of their lives. But okay, some of them aren't that bad, and they get out. Then it's best discussed to follow them as some kind of extra punishment. What's wrong with extra punishment? For example, with an anklet or other form of supervision or a reporting obligation. But that's after the punishment. The punishment must simply take place in the cell. I really don't understand why we keep having this discussion. Every Dutchman understands that if someone is sentenced to, say, ten years in prison...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u15	It's obvious, Mr. Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u16	... he's just gonna be in jail for ten years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u17	Then it's just in words, because then we're all in agreement. Everyone says exactly the same thing, which is that you have to have a punishment that you just have to sit down. That's what the judges are looking at. We share the view that this conditional release should be much shorter. There is also a coalition agreement and ultimately it is being implemented neatly. We also believe that, in the end, you must ensure that someone comes back into society step by step. That extra step is taken into account by the judge, so we don't disagree at all. So I would like to give to Mr Markuszower: just be honest, just say that the PVV, like everyone else here, wants someone not cold turkey to get kicked out of prison, but that he is being followed with an ankle bracelet, so that we know exactly where he is from someone who's been stuck for a long time. Isn't that much more in the interests of victims and next of kin?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u18	I think we're very disagreeable. First of all, the CDA is for short sentences and we are for long sentences. We are not in favour of shortening conditional release. We are in favour of abolishing this conditional release. So at the PVV, a criminal is in prison for a long time, in many cases even for life. Then there's no anklet at all, then he's just in jail. That's a really big difference. Of course, we also have a difference of opinion about the period when a criminal has not yet been convicted, but is in the so-called pre-trial detention and is constantly on leave or at least allowed to wait for his trial at home. Under this minister and with your support, terrorists in the Netherlands, rapists in the Netherlands and murderers in the Netherlands are just waiting for the trial at home, sometimes with an ankle bracelet. That's impossible, isn't it? On that point, we are really very different. I think that everyone who listens to this debate also disagrees with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u19	Finally, Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u20	Just because I distance myself from the somewhat bizarre construction that arose at the end of Mr Markuszower's speech. We just want people to sit out of remand. We have simply made sure that prison sentences have been extended. So I don't recognize the image. I just wanted to make that right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u21	Mr. Markuszower, you continue your argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u22	I'm referring to all those victims, this year, of rapes. All those terrorists who walk freely recognize themselves in that image, because the perpetrators thank you every day for having an anklet, that they often cut too, just sitting at home on the couch, while society expects them to be in jail.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u23	I would also like to make an attempt to get Mr Markuszower to say something friendly or nuanced about the anklet. I don't know if it's gonna work. We all talk to relatives and relatives of victims. Mr Markuszower does the same, I know. Isn't it a good thing that we have that anklet, because such an anklet, for example, can also ensure that an offender at least complies with an area ban, so that he can't enter the vicinity of a victim and his family members at the time of his release? Because that's what happens, let's take that as a fact. I know you don't want that, and I think many will agree with you, but someone can get out sometime. Isn't the anklet really a very nice remedy? Well, then it's a good thing we have it, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u24	I have just said in reply to Mrs Van Toorenburg's question from the CDA that I can well imagine that if a sentence has been served entirely. Let's just say a pedophile gets busted for fornication. I'll give it 50 or 60 years. I can imagine when someone gets out when he's 80, it's still good to follow that person. Then we'll make sure that he has a daily duty of reporting and that he can't get into a particular area close to the victims or their next of kin. Well, then it might as well be that we're wearing one of those ankle bracelets. You want me to say something nice about it. I will. It's a very friendly tool, because all these criminals can cut it. But I can imagine that after those 60 years of imprisonment, especially after the sentence, as some kind of extra measure, an anklet will also be worn, in addition, you know, to the daily reporting obligation. But really only after a lot of years in prison, so we also know that the monster in the criminal is a bit muffled. After the weak prison sentences that are now being imposed, that monster is still present. So that anklet is simply cut, even after the VVD'er Dijkhoff, who was then Secretary of State, introduced a new anklet. It was cut even easier. So all those friendly things about the anklet I'd like to discuss with you, but they're really very few elements.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u25	Nevertheless, I count my blessings. I'll do it with this. I do have another supplementary question to ask Mr Markuszower, namely whether he agrees with us that it should be an independent criminal offence to evade supervision and escape from prison. That is not the case now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u26	Oh, yeah. I will return to that in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u27	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u28	The PVV does not want an anklet for any criminal to replace a prison sentence imposed by the judge, but is the Minister prepared to exclude at least the most serious criminals from the cut? The last time we talked about ankle straps here in the Chamber, then Secretary of State Mr Dijkhoff promised that new ankle straps would be introduced. The new anklet would be made of steel wire instead of rubber and fiber optic cable. That should prevent the band from being easily cut. But now we are back here again, and as it turns out: more ankle bracelets have been cut than the year before. Thank you, VVD'er Dijkhoff! No less than 103 times such an anklet has been cut in the past year. That means about two ankle bracelets were cut a week. The Minister trivializes this in his letter by saying that it is going well in 97.5% of the cases. But as far as PVV is concerned, of course, that is absolutely unacceptable. Of course, it is not acceptable that 2.5% of the people wearing an anklet can successfully cut it. I also ask the Minister where the four people who are gone are. I read in the paper this morning that four people have lost. That is what I read in the Minister's letter. I wonder where they are. The Minister also says that the anklet should not be a danger to the wearer. Well, of course, it shouldn't get weirder. If the anklet is cut, the person who has to wear the anklet may be a danger to his victim and society. Does the Minister think that this danger is acceptable? Which side is the Minister actually on, on the side of the victims or on the side of the perpetrators? I'd like to hear a clear answer. Every anklet that gets cut is one too many. It is not for the victims to explain that murderers, rapists, robbers and terrorists who get out prematurely get an anklet at all, let alone cut their anklet. And we're not talking about the malfunctions yet. That brings me to another point, Mr Van Wijngaarden's point. In the previous debate on ankle straps, the VVD wanted the sabotage of the anklet to be included in a separate description of the offence and punishable. The Secretary of State at the time was going to look into this. The PVV would like to know what's going on with this. Have any measures been taken to criminalise this? Furthermore, it is not to be digested that victims are not informed by the justice system if a convicted criminal has cut his anklet. Now it is true that justice only informs relatives and victims if a suspect is locked up and if a convicted person goes on leave or is released. This is done through the Detention Gradient Information Point. Is the Minister prepared to change this policy immediately, so that victims are also informed if a convicted person has cut his anklet? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u29	Thank you, Mr. Markuszower. Finally, we are going to listen to the last speaker on the side of the Chamber, Mr Groothuizen. He is speaking on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u30	Mr. Chairman. "The virtue sheds light on her own path." That's what the British poet Edmund Spenser once said. Sometimes, in order to stay on that path, there is a need for an anklet, I add. But Mr Spenser will not have foreseen that in 1590 when he wrote that poetry rule. You understand, Mr President, the D66 Group is a poetic group. But seriously, when we talk about electronic surveillance, a number of things are important. It must be a sturdy anklet, with good software, which is also well used in the criminal justice chain. I want to talk about these three things today. Mr. Chairman. The anklet helps to monitor. It is a good tool to support supervision by probation if someone comes out of detention or is suspended from remand. Luckily, the anklet remained in 97.5% of the cases in 2018. However, since the consequences of removal may be serious, a number of colleagues rightly pointed out that the Minister decided to go for a firmer anklet. He was aiming, I read, for a full roll-out in 2018. As you know, Mr President, D66 has always been in favour of such a firmer anklet. But I do have two questions for the Minister. Did that roll-out really work out? Is that sturdier anklet actually the practice? And if so, why does the Minister seek to go for that sturdier anklet again in the 2020 call for tender? Is that an extra step, or are we still a little behind schedule? Mr. Chairman. Last year I appointed to the Minister the issue of the suspension of pre-trial detention on the condition of an anklet. It turns out that sometimes the Public Prosecutor's Office, the probation and the judiciary don't consult each other well. If someone is suspended from remand, the probation will be informed too late. So you get that they have to go after the suspended suspect to put on that anklet. That's kind of lame, to put it mildly. During the AO on the prison system of 6 September last year, the Minister promised to table with those authorities to find a practical solution. My question to the Minister is brief and good: what practical solution have you found to this problem? Finally, Mr President. How's the tech? A number of colleagues have also asked for this, and rightly so, as far as I am concerned. A month ago, the media reported that there was a malfunction due to an update of the anklet software. Well, they work on a GPS system, and those GPS satellites have a clock. That bell indicates a week number, from January 6th 1980. But 1,024 weeks later it turns out that bell is full and it is reset to 0 again, I have been told. That was on April 6, 2019. That was the so-called "week number rollover," which we could read in the media. Was the anklet software prepared for this problem? Was the interference that took place in April possibly due to this problem, or was there a very different cause for it? If that is the case, I think we could have seen it coming and then we could have prevented a repetition of that disturbance. Mr. Chairman. Furthermore, the Minister's last letter states that almost all anklet carriers are back in the picture. But what exactly does "almost all" mean? How long has it taken the Minister to get everyone back in full and correct view? In last week's letter, the Minister also stated that he then included 80 carriers of an anklet with a high risk profile. But how much point does that make if the Minister also writes in his letter that an anklet cannot prevent a crime? I'd like a response to both questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u31	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. We're gonna suspend and then we're gonna start answering the question by the Secretary of Law. I'm suspending the meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u32	We are going to listen to the answer given by the Minister for Legal Protection in his first term. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u33	Mr. Chairman. We're talking about electronic monitoring of suspects and convicts. In short, the anklet. I am pleased to see that there is broad support for this in the Chamber, which also says that this is an important tool in Dutch criminal law. We use it all the time. I think it would be a good idea to stress again what the anklet is for and what it is not for. The anklet is explicitly intended to monitor and monitor compliance with special conditions, and has also proved effective in this respect. Think, for example, of a location ban or a location bid. It's an efficient tool, because it's better than a cop who has to drive by all the time to see if the light's still on. In addition, the anklet also has a preventive effect. The fact that it is about a person's ankle leads, in practice, to a person's behaviour. It is one of the tools at our disposal to ensure that we can better manage risks and better protect victims. I would like to point out once more that the anklet is not intended to replace a pre-trial detention or a prison sentence. If there is a real danger, I say this in the direction of Mrs Van Toorenburg, such as a flight risk or a recurrent risk, then that can only be curbed by taking a person's freedom. An anklet is not an alternative to four walls with a steel door in it. This means that it is always necessary to check whether someone is eligible for such an anklet. Around 700 people a day wear an ankle bracelet in the Netherlands. That number increases slightly over the years. It is about 4,000 people per year. I totally agree with everyone who says here that it is a helpful tool, but that it should work well. They must stay on the ankle as much as possible and the people must be in the picture. At the same time, we know that this is about technology. Technique always has a risk of disruption. We have to be realistic about that, too. That means that people need to know what happens when there is such a malfunction. That's what we're all talking about today. Mr. Chairman. They asked about the different types of ankle bracelets.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u34	Mr Van Wijngaarden wants to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u35	There has, of course, been great concern in the country, but also here in the Chamber, about the disruption that has occurred. I understand that some of the carriers were quickly locked in preventively at that time. That's very good. But is that also the standard procedure for a subsequent malfunction? Is there immediate risk selection and is some of the carriers that are positive from this risk selection also included in the prevention? Can the Minister report that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u36	That depends very much on the kind of interference. There are several failures per year that are of such short duration that the system is so to speak after 15 minutes in the air and can be traced back to everything that has happened. Those are the normal hiccups. Sometimes it takes a little longer. I'll be warned by the picket. Sometimes it concerns only part of the population or the supplier says: we think it will be back in the air in two hours and we can track it all. Sometimes those who wear such a thing are not alarmed. The last malfunction was bigger and lasted longer. There were several periods and there was more uncertainty about when the place would be in the air again. At some point these things squeak or light up the lights and those wearing them, because the anklet does something different than what it should normally do. It is up to the authorities concerned to make an assessment. Which group are you bringing in and where is the risk? That was done in this case. Some 70, 80 people have been brought in preventively. That's not a standard procedure for a minor disturbance. But if there is another major disturbance in the future, which is unclear how long it will take, then we have learned from this case that it is important, for example, that the Public Prosecutor can also very quickly pick up which people we should bring in. So it's part of the palette that comes around the corner when the interference is bigger and longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u37	That's a very valuable answer. The Minister also points out that it has been learned from this somewhat larger malfunction, but can we assume that this method will become the standard for larger malfunctions? In this way, a risk weighting is always carried out quickly and, if necessary, people can be included in preventive measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u38	Yeah, absolutely. If it takes longer, if it's bigger, or if it's unclear how long it's gonna take, then there's some kind of big round table with the DJI, the D.A. and the police, and they're scaling up at some point and saying, we can't wait any longer and we're bringing people in.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u39	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u40	Something was asked about the different types of ankle bracelets. Some of them work with radio waves. It is then the ankle bracelets that indicate whether someone adheres to a particular location, for example at work or at home, at certain times. In addition, there is more and more work with so-called GPS ankle straps. They are constructed when there is a location ban. The advantage of these GPS ankle straps is that we can also check so-called trails. You can trace exactly the routes someone's been on. The band is normally used at different times. Part of that is if someone has not yet been convicted, for example in the event of a suspension of custody. For another part, this happens at the end of the execution if there is a penitentiary program or detention leave if someone goes towards the end of his sentence. The question is, do you have to do that to all of the offenders? Most of the punishments in the Netherlands are finite. We know that it is also better for people who have done something terrible in the past and have been punished for it, at some point, if they are in a position to do so, to gradually get used to these freedoms and to do so accompanied by them, than to open the door at the end of the sentence. Sometimes you cannot do otherwise, for example when there is bad behavior or a very high risk. But if possible, a more gradual resocialisation is ultimately better for the safety of the Netherlands. Mr Groothuizen of D66 asked: what about the suspension of pre-trial detention? We have seen in the past a number of times that people have been informed too late. We've been sitting around the table with the authorities. We have also noted that these are incidents and that, of course, they must be prevented. There is now actually talk about how to organise your work processes in such a way that, for example, as a case officer, you really initiate probation early if it is foreseen that a pre-trial detention will be suspended. Mr. Chairman. The next thing I want to know is how complicated such a process is. If you are dealing with a malfunction, for example, there is a backup system. Mrs Van Toorenburg and Mr Van den Berge asked. Depending on the malfunction, it is also questionable whether the backup system provides a solution for this. Especially in the last major case, this proved to be insufficient. Mr. Chairman. Then there was Mrs Van Toorenburg's question as to whether everything is going to work on GPS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u41	Minister, the above raises questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u42	Yeah, 'cause it looked like some kind of cliff pendant. Mr Van Nispen and I were already looking at each other: here it comes. But nothing came. So we're in a little bit of a mix-up right now. So there's a backup system, but apparently the backup system doesn't work. Then what are we gonna do to make sure it works? Maybe we shouldn't choose the cheapest provider who can't get a backup system in order. I'm just suggesting, but what are we gonna do about it to make sure the backup system works?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u43	Backups are being used and I do not have the impression that the cheapest system is being chosen. We work with a supplier, an Israeli company with a lot of contacts in America, who does that in a lot of places in the world. In doing so, the Netherlands is one of the countries that places the highest demands on the robustness and stability of the system. This also means that you are sometimes limited by what can be delivered or that a manufacturer says: we can make it especially for the Netherlands, but then there is a price tag. Then we always have to see what's real. It is not that we have a backup system in the sense that, if anything fails, we have a separate control room or an extra anklet with inmates. Well, then we've got a problem. Software updates sometimes check whether there is a relapse option. That can sometimes help, but in this case I have to say that it was not enough. It's technique, but sometimes a malfunction is so heavy that the software backup doesn't provide enough comfort.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u44	But is there any creative thinking about what you can do? Because if people can be reached even with mobile phones in the end, and if they're ordered to go somewhere, you'd have something again. Then you can say to someone: the system doesn't work. You'll let them know about that. You also inform next of kin or victims. And you say: you have to go either to an institution or to the parole board; if you don't, you're the shaak. That's the most creative way to make sure you keep people in view and that you know who's hiding and who's not. I think that's important.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u45	Yeah, but that's actually in the follow-up. So that's not a backup of the system so it does it again. Of course, I prefer that. This requires less interference sensitivity and more stability. For example, we can include this as one of the conditions in the 2020 tender. This is actually the repair backup. What can you do with telephony? What can you do with bringing people in? That's what protocols are for. They also come into operation, but certainly such a major malfunction as recently also prompts us to think again: does this require an update and can it be better?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u46	That confusion was indeed with me, because the Minister is talking about backups, but we do not have a backup system in the sense that, if there is a malfunction in the system, another system will take over. That raises the question of why we don't actually have that. Because we have a lot of people in the Netherlands wearing an anklet. We all think it is important that, if there is sabotage or if someone fails to comply with the agreements, it is quickly followed up. We will come to that in a moment, but why do we not have a system specifically for this important security issue that can cope with this? The system does it in 99% of the time, but it has to be taken over in that one percent of the time when the system does not work, because that is much less likely that both systems will not work at that time. Has it been considered whether we could have such a backup system after all?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u47	Yeah, we always look at that, of course. At the same time, I would like to warn your Chamber that a back-up system almost seems to be a kind of panacea. The faults sometimes also have different causes. Let me give you an example. In 2018 we had a major malfunction due to an overload of the roaming network; Tele2 was out. What I am trying to say is that, of course, we are always looking for a way to improve stability and see which relapse options are there, should there be a mistake or a kink in the cable. It may just mean that the backup you are now purchasing for one problem will not work if a new malfunction occurs again. So it also requires something of resilience and a good response, knowing that technology can always fail. What are you doing when that happens? Sitting around the table with all the settings and ensuring that you get on the table very quickly who you would like to attach preventively and what you do when the technique is out of the blue, I find at least as important as putting heavy demands on the technique.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u48	Mr. Van Nispen, enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u49	Almost, Mr. Chairman. Of course, that is also very important and we also expect the Minister to organise it, the resilience of what we do and who should be behind the door immediately. However, I must say that I find it strange that we do not have a backup system. It is considered whether this can be done in the future, but of course you are less likely if there are two SIM cards, for example. Perhaps there are many other possible solutions. If there's a malfunction at one, it would be a coincidence if there's also a malfunction at the other. In short, there are all kinds of technical possibilities conceivable and I would like the Minister to keep a very close eye on them, because I do not think that these failures in the past are acceptable, even if that is perhaps too simple to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u50	We always learn from cases like this. We have protocols that state what to do when there is a malfunction. After such an incident, we always look at the causes of this. What can we learn from that? This is true both of the question of whether the technique can be improved, and that is a bit in this vein, but also in the line Mr Van Wijngaarden asked: what do you learn when it comes to better follow-up? We have to do this all the time. My only warning to the Chamber is that we are constantly increasing the demands, but I really do not have the illusion that it will give us a completely watertight system. In terms of both disturbances and sabotage, you will always have that the technique may fail. If you really want to get rid of that thing, you can do it with a lot of force. You have to look much more at the question of how to ensure a good follow-up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u51	I understand that, but I am somewhat concerned by the Minister's reply. I think I read in the letter sent yesterday by the Minister that there will be an external evaluation of what lessons we can draw from the recent failures earlier this year. When I read this, I thought: I think that's a good idea; because just then you can see the causes of these various failures and how we can learn from them to make improvements. I don't really hear that in the Minister's answers. The Minister says: we are constantly looking at how things can be done better, and we are looking at it. That sounds a lot more voluntary than what I thought I read in the letter. I would like to hear from the Minister whether I have misread the letter or whether he is now returning to that external evaluation. I'd like to have that confirmed by the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u52	No, no. When I say: we look at that, I do not mean that as some kind of understatement that we do so just as quickly one afternoon. Especially in the case of major incidents, it is always very well evaluated to ensure that we learn from it. So we take that very seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u53	However, I believe that the letter stated that regular assessments of incidents had been carried out and that, in addition, an external evaluation would be carried out. I would like the Minister to tell us exactly what that external evaluation means and how and when the Chamber is informed about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u54	If it's in the letter, it's true and we're going to. In case of major incidents, we also always attract external expertise. Sometimes it helps to make other eyes look at that. If you need it, I can also include the outcome in a letter to the Chamber next time we report on electronic monitoring.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u55	I would just like to conclude that there will be an external evaluation that is sound and that the Chamber will be informed. Then I won't have to file a motion later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u56	The Minister says yes. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u57	Mr. Chairman. Then there is Mrs Van Toorenburg's question about the two systems. I'm guessing they're both gonna keep running because they're both gonna have different functions, too. But maybe a shift to more and more GPS is taking place. In the latter case, the tyres can also be reinforced the most. These are linked to the location bans where, for example, the risk of contact with victims is greatest. Can the anklet also be used in forensic care? The answer to that is yes. This is also the subject of site bans and orders. I actually agree with the suggestion that we take a look at this: is this an instrument that is now being used sufficiently or could be used more often? At a later point, we'll probably talk more about forensic care.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u58	I'm sure you recognize what I'm going to say. In the forensic care and especially in the more spacious ggz is still too often thought: people are disturbed; they can't follow the rules anyway, so an anklet makes no sense. But a number of international investigations have now also taken place and it shows that you can still send education by way of education and that at least people are taught something: where they may and may not be. I therefore note that there is a somewhat hesitant attitude in mental health with regard to that ankle bracelet. We should not expect the world to do so, but it can be supportive. Will the Minister take that specifically?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u59	Yes, I will. I shall therefore look at this in Mrs Van Toorenburg's question, which you can do even wider. We are now putting the anklet in the criminal justice regime, while many of the clinics also have non-criminal status. I am a little reluctant in this, because this is also in the area of a fellow Minister and fellow Secretary of State, but I do understand the background. I'll take that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u60	Okay. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u61	Mr. Chairman. Let's talk about how it works. If such an anklet is applied, then an advice from the probation is always requested. He makes the best possible assessment: is anyone ready, can he handle it, are there no risks? Such an assessment, such an advice from the parole board, can, for example, be put aside by a judge in the event of a suspension of pretrial detention. In the end, it's up to the judge to weigh that. Mr. Chairman. I'd like to go through the disturbances. Then I'll go into the sabotages. We actually have three types of malfunctions. The first is small: 15 minutes/hour. Sometimes it is somewhat larger and not one-two-three to be corrected; then a picket is done and then a drawn-up protocol enters into force. And recently we were dealing with a very extensive malfunction. Then you have to think of a long duration carriers are longer out of the picture, attempts to repair or to get it back into the air, for example not.... but also the fact that this is noticed. This is a reason for us to consider what preventive measures we need to take and to inform your Chamber. D66 actually asked what caused the last major disturbance. It had to do with a combination of circumstances, in the sense that the maintenance performed triggered options on the software in one system elsewhere. As a result, indexation did not go as it should. In any case, we have no indication that the cause is in the clock-and-radar work, to which Mr Groothuizen referred, at the so-called software update, because the supplier has informed us that the software is against it. In response to D66's question, I also mention that, when I informed your Chamber on 10 May last about that last malfunction and we indicated that almost everything was back in the air again, you asked what "almost" there were ten more out of the picture. But the expectation was that this would be resolved very quickly, and in the end it did so in the course of that day. What do we do if there's a malfunction? It's good to check that out. For starters, we'll quickly find out what caused it. A protocol will be put into effect. Where necessary, we shall take action. I've already indicated that one of the options is to lock up or lock in preventively. Mr Groothuizen asked how many cases were involved. These were 80 carriers of ankle straps which have been included preventively and have always been considered by the Public Prosecutor and DJI. When the malfunction is over, it always looks at the data received that is then delayed, to find out what happened and to analyze whether, despite the fact that that thing didn't work, people behaved neatly to location orders and bans or whether they did things they shouldn't have done. To make it more stable, we do a number of things. I would like to mention stricter requirements relating to the procurement procedure for the years 2020 and beyond. We have included high demands on stability. It is always to see which registration you get back, but at least we set the bar high. Wherever it can be, we tighten the agreements. I have instructed DJI to consider whether the agreements made on maintenance or control of maintenance can be tightened. This concerns, for example, the timing, in the sense that when you do such an update, you ensure that it happens at a time when there is also good communication with the customer. We will also have an in-depth analysis carried out by the external organisation, which Mr Van den Berg has just asked for. We have no evidence that this is a hack. On that point, let me remove any doubt. Then sabotage, such as deliberately emptying the batteries or cutting the anklet. The data from the probation and DJI show that in 2018 about 4,000 people have worn an ankle bracelet, of which 101 people have withdrawn from supervision 103 times. This means that despite the efforts made and the roll-out of the stronger anklet....the latter is a process that ran in 2018, so it is still a bit difficult to say that 2018 was a very good year to see if the effect has been... the number of sabotages has increased compared to the year before. At the bottom of the line, you talk about 1%, but nevertheless. Your room has asked what happens at such a sabotage. A number of steps are also being taken. After entering the notification that something is going on, the parole board and risk cases also inform the police. The probation attempt at such a time tries to get in touch with the anklet carrier in question, often just by mobile phone. If no contact is established, or if questions arise, then a prosecutor or a P.I. Director is approached to determine whether more stringent follow-up actions should be taken. A good example of this is inclusion of the alert in the search register. Trapped saboteurs are being captured. It then examines the precise consequences of an infringement. In case of destruction or eclipse of an anklet, DJI will always report it. Let me make it clear that I too think, of course, that sabotage of these things, even though it happens, is simply unacceptable and should always have consequences. They must be perceptible consequences, for example in the form of a withdrawal of a conditional release or, at the same time, the re-examination by a judge of whether there should be no re-trial detention. In addition, it must be avoided as much as possible, I believe that Mr Van den Berge hinted at this by not only waiting for the thing to be cut, but also seeing if anyone is actually acting crazy in the run-up to it. Of course, they're under parole supervision. The assessment you make at the beginning of whether someone is able to deal with such a thing in a normal way, you should actually make it all the time. If there are contraindications, this could lead to action.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u62	It sounds like music to my group that the Minister says that it must have consequences if someone is trying to sabotage such a thing, but the consequences the Minister points out are of course disciplinary consequences, for example tightening up the conditions so that someone has to stay inside. That can only be done as long as there's still a sentence to be served. If, in theory, it happens two days before the end of the deprivation of liberty, then you don't have a leg to stand on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u63	You have made it clear that you want punishment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u64	Yeah, you got that right. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u65	That's one of the things we're looking at seriously. There's an investigation going on at the WODC. I promised you before. We had hoped that the beginning of 2019 would be ready. That seems to be ready this summer. This should give us an insight into the legal possibilities, but also into the effectiveness of such a measure to criminalise it as an independent crime. I would just like to say 'as an independent crime', because there are, of course, other measures in many of the cases where an anklet is worn. For example, the suspension can be reviewed or the conditional release can be withdrawn. The destruction of such a thing is the destruction of state property and is already punishable in that sense. So you should add something to that palette.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u66	That research has been under discussion since 2017. That has been postponed several times. It should be ready July 1st this year. It was mid-year and now it's this summer again. The question is whether we really need a comparative legal investigation in order to rule on the principle that there should be a standard on serious withdrawal from state supervision in itself and that this should be punishable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u67	I share that standard. That can also help and make sure that less is sabotaged. It can therefore become less attractive to do so. It may have a deterrent effect. But I do think it is important to always take a close look at the legal consequences and the ultimately expected effectiveness. I think that we should not adopt symbol legislation if Jan and alleman say that you can do it, but that it makes little sense. I hope it makes sense, because then it can make an extra contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u68	The question was when to expect that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u69	This summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u70	Is that before, in or after the summer recess?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u71	I'm afraid to say that, because July 1st is about the limit of your summer recess. The survey will be published this summer. That means that I can come up with my reaction shortly after the summer recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u72	I've been asking about those early indications. Of course, it would be interesting if we could look at all those sabotage cases. The Minister mentioned GPS trails, for example. Are there any patterns to be discovered which suggest that a convicted or suspected person may wish to withdraw from the conditions laid down? Can we do that? Has it been done yet? Can the Minister say anything about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u73	We are doing three things in this area. The first is Mr Van Wijngaarden's line. Mrs Van Toorenburg also asked for this. Shouldn't you be making it even more criminal? That's one of the things we're looking at. The second is that I find it worthwhile to go deeper into the files in the cases where sabotage has occurred to see what was going on. It makes a lot of difference whether it is, so to speak, a crafty criminal trying to escape or whether it is a weakly gifted person who has done something very stupid in an impulsive act. I think you should consider that, too. We can learn from that. Three of them are "b" and that's in the call for tenders that we're about to be able to ask a new supplier if they have smart ideas to make that thing firmer. Here again immediately the warning to your Chamber that I do not have the illusion that every sturdy anklet will completely eliminate sabotage. If you're gonna have an accident and you're gonna be in the hospital, a doctor should be able to take that thing off. If a doctor can take that thing off, with a large pair of scissors or otherwise, there's always someone who can take it off. So you also have to come up with other ways to make that less attractive, to impose a heavier punishment or not to allow someone to qualify for the anklet if you suspect that someone can't handle it and is a risk when it comes to sabotage.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u74	I would like to thank the Minister for the commitment that he, or at least his team, is going to look at all these files again to see what lessons can be drawn from them. I would appreciate it if the Chamber would be informed of what will be done with those lessons.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u75	It is clear that we really want it to be criminalized when someone sabotages his anklet. I have tabled a motion, I can say to the Minister, because he has already answered the question. This investigation that's going on right now is interesting. But what I also want to know from the Minister is how often, after the declaration of sabotage, prosecution has been brought and conviction has been followed. This year we have 40 cases of people who somehow sabotaged the place. How many of those 40 have been prosecuted and what has their punishment been? Mr Van Wijngaarden rightly pointed out to me just a moment ago that sabotage might be punishable, but of course it is not the draining of a battery.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u76	In the latter case, of course, we ask people to keep to the agreements. Such a thing must be charged every so many times, because if it doesn't do it anymore, there is a different form of sabotage than cutting through, but nevertheless. I would like to return to your question as to how many cases were finally prosecuted. Otherwise, I will do so in writing to respond to the WOCD report, which will be published on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u77	Please continue. How much more time does the minister need?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u78	I'm almost done. Mr Van Nispen asked about the fugitive people. These are four persons who have been registered with the Special Police Team FastNL, under the direction of the Public Prosecutor's Office. This means that these people are being spotted and actively tracked. As soon as they are arrested, the sanctions to be applied will also be examined. Mr. Chairman. Then there was the question of how it goes with a sabotage and the report to victims. I think the latter is only normal and will check whether it actually happens in cases of sabotage. For example, if there is a location ban and we know something is going on with an ankle bracelet, not only should the police be informed, but also the victims at such a time. Of course, that's incredibly annoying. It brings with it a lot of uncertainty for the victims, but better that than that they are suddenly confronted with something. This brings me to the end of my first-term response.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u79	Thank you. I'll take a look at the room. Is there a need to suspend or can we go straight to the second term? Who was first? Mrs. Van Toorenburg? I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van Toorenburg in the second term of the Chamber. Mr. Van Nispen has obligations elsewhere. He has had to leave the sitting, but there is a distance watching with the continuation of the debate. Mrs. Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u80	And then I have to say that I think Mr Van Nispen has the same questions as I do, because we have dealt with the issue of Tilburg in quite detail and it is in stark contrast to what the Minister says is the normal procedure. Turns out someone had been out there for a really long time, when no one knew. Can the Minister please comment on this particular matter? Because often we only see how it works when it hasn't worked and then we don't actually get there when the minister says, "That's what it's supposed to be." I have already indicated that we believe that sabotage of electronic detention or supervision should be punishable. The next motion serves that purpose. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas electronic detention is a technical tool to monitor and support compliance with special conditions;]] [[noting that the number of convicted persons who have withdrawn from electronic surveillance is increasing;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with a proposal to discourage sabotage by criminalising withdrawal from judicial supervision,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Toorenburg and Van Wijngaarden. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29279-522]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u81	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u82	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van den Berge of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As I said in my speech today, our group was mainly concerned with the lessons we can learn from the failures and sabotages. I thank the Minister for his answers. I have also heard two clear commitments. One. A thorough external evaluation is sent to the Chamber about what lessons we can draw from the malfunctions. And two. The Minister and his team are going through all the files again to see if there are any patterns or early indications for the situation that a convicted or suspected person no longer wishes to comply with the conditions. And we're also looking at the lessons that can be drawn from this. I have no further motions with that. I look forward to these evaluations and how we can further strengthen electronic monitoring and make it safer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u84	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Wijngaarden of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u85	Mr. Chairman. I have already indicated in the first term that we have been waiting a long time for the criminalisation of sabotage of the anklet. That's a serious withdrawal from state control. That is why the motion that has just been tabled. I have also talked about escaping from prison, because that is an important issue that relates to this. The special thing is that that is not punishable, and that is why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that escaping from prison in the Dutch Criminal Code is not punishable as an independent criminal offence;]] [[noting that helping to escape is a criminal offence;]] [[Whereas escape from prison is a serious and shocking form of withdrawal from state surveillance for the legal community, which must not remain without criminal consequences;]] [[calls on the Government, as a matter of urgency, to propose and attempt to punish and protect, for example in the legislative proposal, a criminalisation of escape,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Wijngaarden and Mr Van Toorenburg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29279-523]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u86	Then I have one more question about parole. It's passed a few times. I would ask the Minister, in his second term, to comment on the noises about capacity problems and waiting lists there. After all, those are the people who have to do day in, day out of work, so it's good to keep your finger on the wrist there. And I have already indicated that we are considering putting forward an amendment to the legislative proposal to punish and protect, but there are several ways that lead to Rome.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u87	Thank you. Then Mr. Markuszower of the PVV group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u88	Thank you, Mr President. I actually asked three questions, but I think I got zero answers. Question one was: is the Minister prepared to at least exclude the most serious criminals from the cutting belt? I didn't hear the answer. Question two was: where are those four criminals who cut their anklet and the minister himself says they've lost? Are they actively tracked down? Where are these people now? Maybe they've been tracked down yet? If not, why not? What does the Minister do about it? I'd like an answer to that. The third question was: is the Minister willing to take the policy... It was about the fact that next of kin and victims are now informed only if a suspect is locked up or if a convict is released on leave, but I would very much like the next of kin or victims to be informed by the Minister if such a criminal has cut his anklet and is therefore wild. Can the Minister answer that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u89	Thank you. Finally, I will give the floor to Mr Grothuizen, if he needs it. That is not the case. Then this brings us to the end of the second term of office. I'm looking at the minister. Can he answer right away? Or does he need a moment? I understand he needs about five minutes, so I'll suspend for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u90	I give the floor to the Minister for his answer in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u91	Mr. Chairman. There are still a few questions left on the screen. Mr Van Wijngaarden's question is whether there is a problem with the capacity of ankle tyres. We have no signs of parole on this part. Then there is Mrs Van Toorenburg's question about the case in Tilburg. I have just indicated that I think it is very logical that victims should also be informed. Apparently, that didn't happen here. That's something we should pick up in the future. If the police are informed about the sabotage of an anklet, and someone has been given an anklet because of, for example, a location ban, because victims live in a particular city or area, then we should also inform the victim at such a time. I'll pick that up. Apparently, three questions from Mr Markuszower have also remained. I have been very eager to write along, but I am convinced that I have answered all three of them in the first term. That is not a question of selective response, but perhaps of selective listening. The question was: can serious criminals be excluded? I said in my intro that even for people who are serving a very long sentence, their punishment will end and it will be better to make sure that you work on resocialization instead of letting them walk cold out of the gate. The second question was whether people are put on the search or alert list if there is sabotage. In my view, at the end of my first term, I said to Mrs Van Toorenburg that this is the case, including in the four cases mentioned in the letter. The third question was about informing the victims. I have just said something about this, but I have already said it in the first period. I hope that we have also addressed all three themes to the satisfaction of the PVV. Mr. Chairman. There are two motions. My basic attitude towards these motions is positive. At the same time, we're doing a WODC investigation for a reason. We actually want to gain more control over the effectiveness of such a measure, such an extra criminality, and we want to know what the legal implications are. To light up a little bit of the veil: if you make something an independent criminal offence, but also lift certain conditions, for example, then it can legally wring. I just don't want to take any chances there. Perhaps both proposers are prepared to hold the motion. I have a positive basic attitude. If the report is there in the summer, I will return to you immediately after the summer to see how we can implement it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u92	I understand the Minister's compelling request to hold the motion. I'll give him that we've had the situation before that everyone thought it wasn't gonna work. Tbs wouldn't get a leave of absence for a year if they did something naughty. Everyone shouted murder and fire at the time, but in the end it turns out to be very effective, because it is taken into account. Even if one is a little critical, I am not entirely convinced that I should not, but I am at least prepared to keep the motion short. Then I'll see what the minister comes up with. Then we can still decide what we have to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u93	At the request of Mrs Van Toorenburg, I propose her motion (29279, No. 522). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u94	For us too, there is a willingness to hold the motion. I would like to thank the Minister for his positive basic attitude, but I would point out that the VVD Group has been advocating the criminalisation of escapes since 2017. Our patience is really being tested. I also think that this is a slightly different issue from the other one. So we're holding the motion, but only for now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u95	At the request of Mr Van Wijngaarden, I propose his motion (29279, No. 523). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u96	So both motions have been held. Does that mean that the Minister is at the end of his speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u97	Let's have a quick reaction. I feel so sorry for this. Of course, we had already announced that we had finished the research a little earlier, but with increasing the pressure on the WODC we have become a little more reluctant lately, for very understandable reasons. In any case, I am pleased that they announce that they will be able to deliver this summer. Then we can provide it with a response immediately afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u98	The Minister has promised to come forward with an analysis of how often criminal proceedings have taken place. May I ask the Minister that I have just forgotten to do so if he will answer the question as to how there has been a 103 withdrawal from the 101 cases?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u99	I've heard that question asked several times. The Minister nods.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u100	Yeah, I'm gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u101	That brings the Minister to the end of his speech. I would like to thank the Minister for Legal Protection for his reply. We have come to the end of the debate on the abuse of electronic surveillance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-12-tweedekamer-3.u102	Both motions have been held. That will not therefore be the subject of a vote next Tuesday. I'm suspending the meeting until 1.20 p.m. Then we begin with the votes on the motions submitted to the VAO Eurogroup/Ecofin Council and the VAO General Affairs Council. The work will then be arranged. At 1:45 p.m. we continue with the VAO Regional Broadcasting.
