ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u1	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the issues at the CBR, the central agency for driving and driving. I want to divide the answer into several blocks. I think that is clear for the Members of Parliament, then you can easily follow whether your questions have already been answered or not. I would like to start with the big overarching issue: how are we going to find solutions here? For this, I would like to begin by explaining the new development of the administrative extension and then looking more broadly at what is needed and possible. Various suggestions have been made from the Chamber, which is more the subject of the structural solution. Of course, I will also discuss the ICT issues afterwards. I would like to focus specifically on the aspect of the medics we need for this. I will also talk about governance and culture, and then I will address some individual questions. Mr. Chairman. First of all, I'm going to say something a little bit about the letter I sent you last night. In that I announced that I would examine the possibility of adapting the rules for the current 75-plus group by allowing an administrative renewal of driving licences for up to one year. The aim is to create room for the CBR to focus on the most risky groups as a matter of priority. Our expectation is that this will help many people who are dealing with a expired driving licence now or in the coming months. The most risky groups are excluded from that administrative extension. You've seen the bullets. I shall deal with this in more detail later. For example, if they already have a licence with a restriction, they cannot be covered. Of course, people who make use of this scheme will also be advised or encouraged to report this when they themselves have doubts. But my experience with 75-plussers in the Netherlands is that they are on average very aware of their own responsibility and that when they get something medical to process they will actually report it. The Association of Insurers states that the scheme does not have to cause any problems in terms of insurability. Of course, that is a very important requirement, because if it would lead to people going on the road uninsuredly, then it will not help, because of course you can never expect that from people. The SWOV, the Stichting Scientifice Onderzoek Verkeerheid (Stichting Scientifice Onderzoek Verkeerheid) (Stichting Scientifice Onderzoek Verkeerheid) (Stichting Scientifice Onderzoek Verkeerheid) gives this solution given that the circumstances are also not unwise to find, in the light of road safety. They really see it as an oppaign to a better system in the future, with reporting over the whole period of time being given a central role. I have a few final comments to make on this. You have read in the letter that I must of course first and foremost know whether the CBR itself can handle this properly, or whether they can handle it, because if this would increase the chaos at the CBR, then we will put the horse behind the cart. So of course the CBR has to see for itself how they fit this into their processes. I'm gonna hold on to that battle for a while. Several MPs have asked: how long is this going to take? I can see Mr Schonis nodding at once, from: yes, I would have asked you to do the same. Within the next two weeks, I really need to be clear about all this, because I want to be able to give you that clarity before the recess, with regard to all the relevant factors. So that is primarily about the CBR, and secondly about the Ministry of Justice and Security and the Public Prosecutor, because of course we need to have clarity about how this can be maintained and about possible criminal consequences, because you all know that a driving licence can also be an identity card. All that kind of complications we need to figure out. The aim is to be able to answer you before the summer recess; that's what we're just going for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u3	Okay, clear. That's gonna take some research, and you'll get back to that. I'm happy with that change and the Alliance of Insurers also says this can be done. I assume that this is only the case within the Netherlands. As you yourself say, the driver's license is also often used as an identity card. Imagine an elder with such an extension crossing the border and something happening there. Do you have a real license or not? We'll find it is because you'll be in the register in a minute. The question remains: when will that register be available? But do the foreign parties agree? There's a piece of liability there, isn't there? Please include that in the answer in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u4	Of course, that is an aspect that we are also looking at. The important thing is that this is a legal amendment, and that is why it really is a regulation, so if it is only a coulance that this is, of course, a legislative amendment, and so it is also a good basis for enforcement. How to resolve it in the intervening period and whether you tolerate or anticipate it in the run-up to the finalisation of that legislation is also part of what we are trying to figure out. I will certainly bring the component from outside the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u5	Take it with you. The second argument that I read in the letter and that really is a difference with respect to the coulance is that the confidence that the working stock has really shrunk at the CBR so that people can be helped in time was lacking. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u6	Yeah, I'm gonna talk a little bit more about what's different and what we're focusing on. The fact that you're taking this group out doesn't only result in this group getting out of the fire, but also has a positive effect that there's more time left to pay attention to the important group of self-detectors. Those are the people who suddenly get hurt. Someone gets a TIA or something else happens that might cause that person to doubt whether this has any consequences for his driving ability. Those are people who want to help you very quickly, because it's a risk group. You'd like to clarify that very quickly. So the CBR gets more room to pick that up. In all respects, it is intended to bring enlightenment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u7	The Minister must have thought very carefully about this administrative arrangement. So she'll probably be able to help me out and tell me how many people we're gonna make happy with this arrangement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u8	I can't exactly describe that. You know how many people fall into that age group. I don't have those numbers right at hand, but I'll get back to you in each one. I'm gonna go check on my petals. Well, I found it pretty soon anyway. An assessment has been made, but we really do not know exactly how many people have a driving licence with a disability and how many people have obtained the driving licence by the police. These are all very specific cases. It is now estimated that there are 200,000 people on an annual basis who enter that category each year. We assume that it will be a solution for the largest majority of them, probably at least 160,000. We're gonna have to take a big hit. I can't imagine that a lot of 75-plussers had to turn in their licenses to the police, but I do have to take a swing at them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u9	The Minister probably bases the figures on the ICT system of the CBR, which worries me. Can the Minister at least give us a percentage of the total number of applications now pending and whether that is just a drop in the ocean?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u10	I'll get to that later. The current working stock has also been specifically requested. So I'll come back on those numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u11	I understand that before 1 July, we will know whether the coulance regulation is going to do it or not. The Minister also referred to the intervening period. Do we also know in two weeks' time whether this solution, in anticipation, will work for the interim period and whether it will enter into force immediately?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u12	Those are all questions that I agree with you on, that they need to be answered before the recess. So I am really going to work with the colleagues from JenV, the Public Prosecutor and the CBR to get that clarity in the next two weeks so that I can inform you about it before the summer recess and so that you can do something with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u13	Thank you to the Minister for that reply and for the commitment that we will then get those answers before 1 July. Two things to that. You mention the coulance scheme and you mention the administrative extension. In my view, the administrative extension is simply 'allowed to drive a year longer' and, at least as I have intended and read it, the coulance regime is a tolerated situation. And that will be the situation from 1 July until the entry into force of the new regulation. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u14	Well, we're gonna have to keep this apart for a while. Your proposal for the coulance scheme went wider. If you take that into account, we agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u15	Thank you. Then I have one more question. You say that I want to keep the duration of that provision as limited as possible. With this provision you are referring, I think, to extending that year, to that administrative extension. So I read out here that you say that we are going to extend the driving licences for a year and then that will be done, because then the problems at the CBR will be solved. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u16	That is indeed the aim. Look, it should not be that this situation is permanently necessary, because you rightly ask the CBR to put their affairs in order and that they simply deliver on time. So it does not need to be discussed at all whether there could be a year's extension. I also really hope that the CBR can improve it in such a way that only in an exceptional case a full year will be needed. It is of course important that the CBR simply tries to deliver the driving licences within the prescribed time limit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u17	But then I have a final question. Let's say we can't do that at the CBR. The problems are, after all, considerable, as this report shows. Is it then conceivable that within a year and a half, because that is what we are talking about specifically, we are discussing this change of system here in the Chamber and perhaps even putting it into effect, so that we do not have problems again soon or after that year and a half? Because a year is of course only a relatively small period to give peace, especially if you want to think about another system, and that is also in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u18	I very much agree with Mr Schonis that we should look at this broader system change. It is also really my intention to get to work on that. There are a number of questions which I shall come back to. But I share what Mr Schonis says: this is not a separate administrative extension. You really have to see it, and so we have explicitly discussed it with SWOV, for example, in the run-up to that system review.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u19	Mr Van Aalst, again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u20	Yes, very briefly, let me see if I have the Minister's commitment. The Minister states that before the recess she will come back to whether all this is feasible, I understand. But when we talk about entering into the administrative rule, what time limit are we talking about? Because if we don't do that until the end of the year... I understand that the CBR will not be ready before the end of the year, but I really hope that we do not need the scheme at all and that the CBR will have the mess in order before then.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u21	I very much agree with Mr Van Aalst that the latter would be the most desirable. But the indications for that are not good. I say that quite honestly, and I wrote it in the letter. I am therefore afraid that the regulation will be necessary. And when it enters exactly, of course also depends on your room. I don't know which of the Members it was who said: we sometimes experience a law going through the Chamber very quickly here. Fortunately, that's what you're talking about. In an AMvB, a general measure of governance, it is necessary that we refer it to the Chamber. So I hope your room will just handle it very quickly. The same applies to the Council of State, which must also look at it. I will also urge the Council of State to do so as quickly as possible, particularly in view of the broad wish expressed in your Chamber. In theory this can also be done within a few days, but I don't have it in my head either. That's up to the Council of State itself. So I'm limited in my possibilities and I can't exactly estimate it. How fast it can go is in the Chamber and in the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u22	Is the Minister expecting it by the end of the year? Or is that going to take another year at least?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u23	Given the great support in your Chamber, I'm counting on your room for a quick treatment here. If the Chamber and the Ministry together point out to the Council of State that they attach great importance to this, I think this could be a matter of urgency. I hope that they will be able to deal with it quickly. Of course, the Chamber still has recesses. I understand. I will at least have everything ready for us right after the recess. Then you can go straight to the front.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u24	I am extremely pleased that this coulance regulation, in whatever form, will be put in place. Previously, the minister didn't see any bread in it to rig up a coulance scheme, but he did now. I wonder at what point in time has the Minister decided that the regulation proposed by the Chamber is not so bad at all? When was that clear to her? We've seen all kinds of reports come through over the past few weeks. My question is clear: when did that become clear to the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u25	I can't get one specific moment back where I thought, "I have to do something with this." What has, of course, played a very important role is enhanced supervision. You're gonna be on top of it. Then we took measures with your room. We have said that we are going to prioritize the groups whose driving licences are likely to expire and which are affected by the expiry date of the driving licence, including the professional drivers. I then had to conclude from the latest progress report that this prioritisation is not helping enough. I do not yet see, and still do not have the firm confidence, that it will be resolved by the end of the year. In addition, I am thinking of the previous discussion we had on the coulance regulation. I also fully understand the point made by Mrs Van Brenk that she included in her term. Then, of course, we were just looking at coulance for sec. It is always stated: it is not enforceable; we cannot do that. The difference is, we're going to do it with a law change now. Then it's not a coulance, but it's the law you change. It then provides a legal basis for doing so. What I'm still struggling with and what I'm still looking at is how we'll settle that in the meantime, until the AMvB comes into force. I think everyone wants to cooperate in getting that done as soon as possible. We will, of course, keep the point of the transitional period, which your Chamber has rightly asked questions about. I still have to conclave that with JenV's colleague and the D.A.'s office. So I can't promise you that. It's really my endeavor to get it done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u26	I can still see Mr von Martels standing by the interrupting microphone. I thought you'd been a second time, Mr. Von Martels? Go ahead. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u27	With the coulance control you are of course sticking patches. A structural solution must then be considered. Does the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u28	Sure. Perhaps, in anticipation of that, I can answer the question "for this, you and Mrs Van Brenk have already drawn together a little bit on what we are doing with the inspection that is linked to the mandatory age limit and the report of the SWOV from 2011. I would like to say to the House that this aspect, of which SWOV states that it is good to do it risk-driven, should be examined in more detail in the broad system review. I would like to take stock of this information and will also like to share it with the Chamber. What about the current figures: which countries have such an age assessment and what about it? 2011 was a long time ago, so let's take a good look at the current situation, because I understand your wish very well. Maybe it doesn't make a difference, you better work at risk and you can let people report themselves; but again, the necessary blows apply to the arm. I understand that the Chamber would like to be informed whether this could be an alternative. It would, of course, also give the CBR a lot of air if it did not have to process all those tests that might not be necessary. But I think it's too early to... I'm willing to take a closer look at it and look into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u29	Last Tuesday we had an additional meeting of the Permanent Committee on Social Affairs. There's a bill ahead of us tonight. It will be decided on Thursday. It can happen as soon as a ruler wants it to, and if the Chamber wants it to. That's about the AOW improvements. I can imagine that colleagues would be happy to be willing to do so on this point. The question is: what more does the Minister need than the good will of the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u30	I will make sure that we have our pieces ready in time. If your Chamber wants to deal with it so quickly, that is a very important step. The other point, as I just mentioned, is the Council of State. Of course, it helps me greatly if I can convey this wish not only from me, but also from the Chamber, Chamberwide, to the Council of State, but ultimately, of course, it is about his own work stock. As far as pensions are concerned, the Council of State has considered the subject raised by Mrs Van Brenk to be so important that it wanted to deal with it as a matter of urgency. I cannot decide this for the Council of State, but I will strongly recommend to them that they respond to this very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u31	Do I understand that, if the Minister could manage things before the summer holidays, we could even deal with them in the last week? Or is that a very difficult matter, so that the Council of State can spend the whole summer vacation on it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u32	No, I think we're really gonna need a few more weeks for that alignment. What exactly comes out, then you have to incorporate into that arrangement. What I can promise you is that during your summer recess this will be continued at the Ministry so that you will be able to deal with this immediately when you return.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u33	The VVD wants to do everything possible, given the urgency and because it affects so many people, to get those improvements done quickly, so we're going to get to work on it. My question relates to the previous point, which Mr von Martels has just made, about abroad. I understand there's no age limit in Germany, so you get your driver's license there, and that's what you keep until you die. Is such a thing also conceivable, of course, you have to investigate that, and you are going to look at the system change in that direction, and you are going to look at it risk-driven? Maybe you're 50 and you should do something, but maybe you can just keep driving around until you're 95. After all, it's what a person is about. Is that a thought that can achieve something, or is that out of the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u34	I was just trying to point that out in the direction of Mr von Martels. I cannot, of course, give a final ruling on this now, but I fully understand the thinking. 'Cause of course you can see that one 51-year-old isn't the other. There are people who remain supervital until they are old age, for which it is in fact totally unnecessary that they should be given that test every five years. And on the other hand, of course, there are people who have all kinds of physical or sometimes mental problems at a much younger age that affect driving skills. So in order to take that risk-driven approach, I think it's definitely worth investigating. But, of course, I can't anticipate it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u35	Okay, then we'll get back to that later, but it's an interesting thought, because with that you cut away a lot and look at the risks. So thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u36	I come across people on the road every day who I think should look at their driving skills. But that aside.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u37	No matter the age!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u38	Exactly. That doesn't necessarily have to be age-related. I actually hear the Minister propose solutions in three companies. I hear her say: we should actually look at a very short-term coulance scheme, from today, so to speak, until that AMvB has been introduced for a year with that administrative extension. That's when you have that AMvB that's gonna get you on the road for a year, and then comes the system review. We can then, of course, start this reform after the summer. Because after that year of the AMvB we want to go right on. Is that possible? Could we discuss the documents for this system review here as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u39	I have promised you that before the summer recess I will tell you how we will proceed with this. So let me assure you that in that same letter/communication to your Chamber I will also indicate what kind of process I intend to have in mind during that system review. I'll go over the questions. It's going fast, because you've already mentioned a lot of questions at the interrupting microphone. In fact, we are already in the process of adapting the rules and working hard on the preparations. One more question was: what are you going to do for the other groups? I have just indicated that this, precisely because there is some pressure going on with this group, gives extra space, just for those self-detectors. But, of course, I would also like to give you the commitment, which I have already made to you in the past, to the specific procedures, for example for professional drivers. It all remains in full force what we agreed with your Chamber earlier, so you don't have to worry about that. Mr Dijkstra raised the question of how many of the victims were left. That number is constantly on the move. Things are getting done and new cases are coming up. So it's a little daily rates; snapshots. It's about 13,000 people right now, so we're not doing it for nothing, I'm just saying. That is the real reason for these further steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u40	I'll take a look around at the number of MPs sitting here on this committee. We have all put forward people who had problems getting through this route. Those problems were solved within 24 hours. In that case, a number of 13 000 people do not seem insurmountable to me. Why can't these cases be dealt with in 24 hours?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u41	I've heard the example from you. I don't think it's the way it's supposed to be. I think there should be no distinction. I myself indicated to the CBR that I absolutely do not want the people I send to be given a lot of priority in one way or another. That's really not the way it's supposed to be. That's the instruction I gave them. Perhaps you can give them as MPs too, because it just doesn't belong.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u42	Priority or no priority, apparently in the 24 it can be solved for people. I'm assuming it doesn't matter if I send someone in, whether or not they approve or not? It's about whether someone's fit. If it is possible within 24 hours, it is possible and it is purely a capacity problem. I think you'll be able to solve that very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u43	If there was a capacity problem to solve, we would have done it by now. Unfortunately, it has been found that this is not the case. I don't know these cases either. Maybe they were almost through. Of course, they are often people who are really desperate and waiting terribly long. People don't send letters to you or me at a week's delay. Well, it's not so crazy, then, that hopefully these cases will be taken off soon. When will the driver's license register be ready? That is what Mr Dijkstra asked. That is also part of the research I would like to conclude before the summer recess. Of course, we also need the RDW for that. Consultation with them has begun. Then a little broader about the structural solution, because that is what it is all about in the end, you all rightly say. I have just said something about the abolition of compulsory age-related testing, in order to seriously examine its advantages and disadvantages. I would like to point out that, of course, if such a system changes are to be made, road safety will continue to be paramount, but that is what I really feel about your Chamber. So it has to be a good and safe alternative. I say to Mr Schonis: we cannot simply abolish it. If we have not yet had this system change, there is not yet a good alternative, so we cannot suddenly say: we are now stopping that age-related inspection. Then we must first know with each other: how then? But I have also tasted in your Chamber that you say: get to work on this system change as quickly as possible, so that it can be assessed what could be the best way forward. Mr Schonis also asked if the Minister could look at the list of diseases. That's what the Health Council is about. They give us regular advice. You know, sometimes there's sickness, and then there's disease, and then there's things that go away. As an example, I mention ADHD. You also mentioned that example. At the end of 2018 there was a change, in the sense that people who have been diagnosed with ADHD as a child, but who have stopped treatment for their 16th birthday, can now indicate it on the form. Then an additional inspection is no longer necessary. That is one example of such a change that took place at the end of 2018. But then again, new things are being discovered and new medicines are being discovered. I think we should stay out of that, too. It's really up to the medics to judge that. We constantly follow the advice of the Health Council and the CBR takes it over.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u44	When we spoke today about the CBR, I received a response from the Minister, saying that my husband has beginning Alzheimer's and that he should not be behind the wheel anymore; while continuing to use those skills would help enormously. Do you know whether the question whether you should stop driving immediately, because otherwise it might become a danger in the long term, is also one of the things being investigated by that Health Council?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u45	I don't know exactly what research the Health Council is doing on this, but I haven't been to SWOV very long ago, and one of the projects I've seen there is that they're doing online tests with people who are developing the disease to see to what extent that actually affects the ability to drive. Research is therefore carried out in all possible ways, not only by the Health Council, but also by our own scientific institute. That's precisely what's going on with the ability to drive, in combination with such a condition. This is done in order not to unnecessarily deprive people of driving, while on the other hand also road safety should not be unnecessarily endangered. That is what is being investigated.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u46	Could I then ask the Minister that, as soon as there is more clarity about this, she actively shares this with the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u47	Then I suggest to Mrs Van Brenn that I ask both the Health Council and SWOV about the latest state of affairs regarding this investigation, and that I tell you that in the same letter before the summer recess. Self-reporting might help. We've already talked about that. Then there are Mr Dijkstra and some other subjects. Is it true that the driving school holders can't go to the CBR on weekends and evenings? The CBR has indicated that the customer portal of the CBR, called My CBR, is not accessible from Monday to Saturday between 00.00 in the morning and 06.00 in the morning, and on Sunday between 00.00 in the night and 13.00 in the afternoon. This has to do with the way in which the core ICT systems of the CBR are connected and with the relationship with management and maintenance on these systems. The CBR has announced that it is currently preparing to redesign it, so that the opening hours of My CBR can be extended. When that can be introduced, it is not yet known, but as soon as that is clear, I will let you know. The CBR website is available 24 hours a day, but of course you are interested in that part My CBR.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u48	It's just a little thing, but it's illustrative of how not to do it. At this time you should be able to log in, even if it is in the middle of the night, if you want to order something. You can do that anywhere, except at the CBR. Then you can't do your paperwork. I find that strange, because also these driving school holders work during the day and they want to do their administration once when it suits them. Of course, that has to be different. I hope the Minister agrees with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u49	Yeah, and I think the CBR, too, since they're working on it to make that possible. But I'm underlining what you're saying. Are there any other solutions in the process conceivable? I should like to come back to the question of the availability of medical examiners. You have also read in the letter that I have not yet been reassured by what has happened so far. I have therefore said that I want to see a plan of action on how to solve the problem of the structural shortage of doctors and how to ensure that there are enough doctors. The same is true, in fact, for procedural safeguards. Let's see. Mrs. Van Brenk asked if we'd be ready in a year and if there'd be an oiled machine. The CBR has been struggling with this for a long time. You're aware of that, too. In recent years, I have seen this in retrospect, especially in the debate on rising waiting times for people who wanted to take a driving test. That problem is at last reasonably contained. I dare not guarantee that the end of this year is an oiled machine. That's why I sent this letter on purpose last night. That's what I'm really worried about. I think that's gonna take a lot of work. That is why I want to see this plan of action to solve, in particular, the problem of these doctors. Otherwise, we will continue to deal with these emergency connections. So I really want to see that plan of action. We'll do anything about it, but you can have different definitions of an oiled machine. So I'm afraid to say we'll have that by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u50	A few weeks ago, the Minister indicated in a letter that she assumed that we had solved the problems by the end of the year. Now she doesn't know if we'll have an oiled machine in a year. What happened in the last few weeks? Has it turned out there's a bigger mess behind the scenes? Can the Minister take us with him? Apparently, something has happened in the last few weeks or the Minister has received information which has delayed everything by one year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u51	First of all, I did not mention earlier that the problems would have been solved by the end of the year. I have indicated that the CBR has indicated that it expects to have solved the biggest problems by the end of the year. I didn't want to replace the CBR at the time either. It's their expectations. I would like to say something more about what has been added in the meantime. In any case, we have seen that the influx of new cases in May has been greater than what has been eliminated. That is one of the alarm bells that went off on me, in the sense that apparently it is not yet sufficiently in order. There is progress to be made. I'll say a little more about that in a moment, but you can see the trend. Everyone knows someone who has to deal with these problems. That's the side effect that people are going to report more and more. That's fine in itself, because then you'll have more time to deal with it. On the other hand, it also makes the working stock much larger again. So it has two sides.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u52	Maybe that "oiled machine" was a little cynical, because we just want them to do their job well. But what if that prospect isn't there yet? You are now coming up with a suggestion that makes us all think: hey, there is hope; we are going to drive for another year. But after that, the problem may not be solved. So what do we do? Have we changed that law so that anyone can drive through it permanently, unless there's a beep? How are we gonna fix it permanently?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u53	I just indicated that the CBR cannot guarantee with the current approach that it has mastered the problem at the end of the year. That is why we are taking an extra step now. I just have to make a few reservations about exactly how we can fill this out. I also want to see the plan of action on the shortage of doctors. We really need to have that overall picture before we can judge whether this will be enough or whether there are other things to think about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u54	We've been working a year longer, if... Or drive longer. I hate working longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u55	Could be a lot of fun!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u56	Some people can love that. We have been driving longer for a year now, at least that is the suggestion. But if the CBR isn't there by then, will we do it again for another year? So what's the solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u57	I can't anticipate that now. We must first look at what effects these measures, which we want to take now, will have. I also hope that at some point the power will be reduced, because people are going to sign up so early in advance that the normal current will be generated there at some point. But you can't anticipate that. If it's not enough then, I'm the first person who'd like to talk to your room and see what else we can get out of the closet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u58	We had a change of guard at the CBR. A new director has taken office, who has taken responsibility here in the Chamber. It has clearly stated and literally said: we have all seen this coming. What I do not understand then is how it is that the Minister still comes up with new surprises. If the CBR saw all this coming, why don't we have a time frame now? I don't understand any of that. If we don't know that, something's gonna go terribly wrong, right? We've seen it all coming, but we've made an incredible mess of it. Does the Minister have an explanation for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u59	See everything coming? They have, of course, seen a number of things coming, such as the ageing of the population and so on. You can also see that, let me put it carefully, it is quite a challenge to shape both a reorganisation and an ICT system change at the same time. I can only conclude that there has been too much optimism about this. 'Cause if you hadn't, you'd have flown it in advance, but, yeah, it's different.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u60	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u61	Yeah, rounding it up. I understand you didn't see some things coming. But I hear from the Minister that the picture was first that we would be in order by the end of the year, when we now have to add a year, and we have seen it coming. Yeah, so where did it go wrong in the expectation management? Because the Minister notes that a number of things have come to her, which lead her to think that it is not going to be okay for the time being. Then where's that horrible mistake of a year?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u62	You're talking about a year's error of assessment. I can't place it like that. The fact is that the developments at the CBR did not go as they had estimated, apart from the fact that they really saw that an ageing population would have to be judged and so on. I can only conclude that there has been too much optimism about the ICT system, which I have yet to discuss, and b also about their own capacity to deal with matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u63	On this point, we had a round table less than three months ago, in which the chairman of the Supervisory Board had a conversation with a number of MPs. Then they said that the problems were solved by the end of the year. The Minister also spoke to us during the debate on the CBR. Now we are three months away, and now the Minister's letter states something quite different, namely that the problems have not been resolved by the end of the year. That's what a big part of us predicted three months ago. Does the CBR agree with the conclusion that the problems were not resolved by the end of the year?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u64	The CBR reports figures they expect to get at the end of the year, from which I conclude that the problem is not yet over.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u65	The question is whether the CBR also draws that conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u66	Yes, they also indicate that it is very vulnerable and that it is very much the question of whether they can do it all. That has been the reason for me to take a step further.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u67	Can we get to the ICT block?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u68	As far as I'm concerned, yes. But that's what the Chamber is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u69	Mr Laçin would like to make his third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u70	The second interruption was a half. What insights has the CBR had in the last three months that it has changed? Because the expectations were already known. What has changed in the last three months that this conclusion can now be drawn and not three months ago?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u71	There have been effects of people who, because of the massive awareness of these problems, have all come forward at an extra early stage, which has made the supply even greater. That is one important factor in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u72	The Minister is continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u73	There are always unexpected things. It's no different. Mr Van Dijk rightly said that implementation organisations have been failing more often lately. He mentioned the example of the Tax Administration and the UWV, where there are also problems. He asked if we could look at that more structuralally. In the Spring Paper 2019 you have been informed that there is broader attention for this in the cabinet. The ministries of SZW, Finance and BZK are in the process of taking up this government wide. The Chamber will be further informed about this before Princess Day. The aim is to provide a problem analysis with possible solutions at the beginning of 2020. In the run-up to the budget, you will be told more about this. Mr Van Dijk also asked about culture at the CBR. The problems are so far, but when you're in trouble and you call the CBR, you want at least to be treated nicely, where people have time and attention for you. I very much agree with Mr Van Dijk, of course. Within the CBR, attention is paid to this, but we continue to steer on this, because I have also been approached quite frankly by someone who did not feel that well treated. We have agreed with the CBR that it will offer additional customer service trainings to the employees. Then I'll get to ICT. The chairman already asked me if I could start with that. It is true that there are more and more files in the OPUS system. This is also due to the increasing use of the new system. There was just a question about the work stock. On June 3, 2019 it's just a snapshot of the total working stock around 132,000 files. Of that work stock, there were just over 90,000 in the new OPUS system and around 40,000 in the old SCOOP system. For some of these files, the action lies with the CBR and for some of the files another action has been requested from the customer or the doctor. The active working stock, which was really being worked on, was at that time around 88,000 files. I would like to stress once again that the reason for this high level of work is not so much in the new system as in the lack of medical decision-making capacity at the CBR. We'll get to that later. How come the cost of ICT has become so much higher? The increase in costs was mainly due to the fact that the scope of the programme was only fully understood and that the assessment of the time needed to deliver that system was too low. People have simply been too optimistic. The conclusion was that in advance it was unclear what exactly was needed and what approach would lead to the best result. If you don't know that yet, you don't know exactly how much it'll cost. I asked the CBR to have an independent evaluation of the programme by the end of 2019, after the system has been completed, so that we can learn lessons from it for other ICT projects. I'd like to wait until it's all done and done, because it's important that we don't increase the problems. As soon as it's finished, I want to have an independent evaluation of how it all went with this program.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u74	The Minister mentions concrete numbers: a total of around 130,000. The numbers I have are a little higher. However, I am mainly concerned that the regular working stock of the CBR is around 30,000. Now we're talking about 130,000. That's more than four times more, with the problems we're going to talk about later: the medics who run away and the medics who can't be found. How are we going to solve this problem? The working stock has risen tremendously. I would like to know from the Minister how the work stock has developed over the past few months: is it increasing or decreasing in both systems? How are we gonna solve it with the medical exams that go wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u75	On the part of the medical examinations I'd like to come back in a moment. I also asked for a plan of action for this. You have quite a point: that is really the heart of the problem. If we do not manage to have enough doctors, but do have a fantastic working system, the working stock will not be reduced. After all, as long as that doctor can't give his judgment, you can't enter that either. I have just given an example, but I would add that these are daily rates. One day the production is much higher in numbers if there are some more easy cases, with the rows of green ticks there very quickly. Then in one day, there's gonna be a lot going on. On another day little comes in and another day more. Those are real daily rates. You can't judge them at the same level throughout the days.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u76	We're talking mostly about people, so I wouldn't like to talk about production and daily rates. There are people who really need help. Soon we will be talking about the doctors, because I have asked a number of questions about this, but I am referring to the following question, which I would like to repeat: can the Minister give us an insight into how the work stock has developed in both systems over the last few months, so that we can see whether it is increasing or decreasing?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u77	Fine. I can take that with me in the letter you'll get before the summer recess. You will then see how the stock in both systems has developed. In the context of expectations management, I note that I do not yet know how we do that. If you will allow me to show that in a graph, we can outline it to you in broad terms. The most important thing you want to know, I hear, is whether the working stock is decreasing or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u78	I won't be too faint, but the Minister's math on the working stock was: 90,000 and 40,000 together is 130,000. That gives a bit of a picture to the people who say, "Oh, my file is lost behind the scenes." 'Cause I think you're gonna miss 2,000 out of 132,000. That must have disappeared behind the scenes. But my question is about the Minister's administrative arrangement for the 75-year-olds. How does that number relate to the working stock? I think she'd come back to that. But I have the work stock now and I have just received a number on the administrative arrangement, but I do not yet see how that relationship is putting together. How much of that work stock is now 75 years older and will soon flow out of that work supply? Of course, that's the most interesting thing: how many problems do we solve within the 132,000?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u79	I have indicated that the working stock is constantly evolving, because it varies a day. One time this one is really much higher than the other day. The numbers I mentioned have a bandwidth. So you can't really make the sums, because up and down there are some anomalies. That could be in the thousands. I have also indicated to you that we cannot yet assess exactly how many people will be able to benefit from this administrative extension. All over the world, but you can't make a sum of that, I've indicated that there are 200,000. That is a substantial number. If you imagine these people together, four times the Kuip is full of all the people who have been hurt. I think that is a very important number in order to be able to help them. Of them not everyone will be able to be helped, because of course there are people who already had a medical problem; that is perhaps a certain percentage. There may also be people whose license was obtained by the police. You can't pin that exactly on numbers, because we don't know that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u80	That's exactly the crux of the story. My point is that this is a bit of a paper tiger. We're a little scared that's already come by... that we're making people happy now with a dead sparrow and that no one's going to be helped at all. The Minister states that the working stock is fluctuating and may be different. Well, the people I've spoken to have been on hold for at least six months to a year. I think that the working stock does not differ so much per six months, because people do not have an answer. How does the minister rhyme with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u81	That is what I rhyme with each other very well, because I have also informed you that it is not just about helping these people in this category, but at the same time freeing up time and capacity at the CBR to help the other target groups. Of course, I do not know how much acceleration that will lead to, but it is clear that it is getting better and that we can also help those people, for example the self-defense.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u82	Let's be honest. I just heard the Minister say that last May there were more people on the waiting list than the number of people who went off there. Well, then I don't have that much faith in it. Doesn't the Minister agree with me? The minister says we're going to clear capacity, but if there's still more to it every month than we're going to go off, we're not gonna free capacity. I assume the Minister also made that calculation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u83	Last May, of course, this arrangement was not in force at all. So you can't take what he's going to do with it. I would also point out that, at some point in time, how long before people are going to apply immediately will end. People may now think: with those 90 days I am not reassured; I am going to start my procedure six months in advance, so to speak. Maybe there are even people who think, "I'm only starting a year in advance." But people are not going to start much longer in advance at some point. So I think that this bow wave is a term that we often use here at some point. But again, this too is of course a topic in the discussion we are going to have with the CBR about this arrangement. Of course, it also has to do with their execution test. I have also indicated to you that if the CBR would tell me that it is not getting any better because of this arrangement and that it is coming from the rain in the drip, I will report it to you. Well, of course we're not gonna do it, but I don't have that expectation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u84	When you just said it was about four or five times the Kuip, I saw a number of people nodding in agreement. So you have calculated that well, but the number is of course partly dependent on the buttons on which you are turning. With the bullets in your letter with the criteria we might think of and which we would use, I can see only one real variable: there should be no relevant driving licence codes with a medical background. So I think that's the button you can dial. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u85	Well, the buttons you can turn on... I just don't understand how many people fall into what category. Of course, I cannot turn that button on itself, because people have that indication or not, and the driver's license has been recovered by the police or not. There's nothing I can do about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u86	I understand that, but whether someone's license has been recovered or not, it's very black and white: unfortunately, you don't have a driver's license or you have a driver's license. That's very easy, but of course you can make a choice. You can say: I don't find that medical category A through Z a problem and from Z-A I find it a problem. That's what I'm talking about. So you can certainly send on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u87	Then we find ourselves in incredibly many additional complications. This will also be very complicated in terms of enforcement. We do want to keep it a little simple and clear. That is exactly what we need to look at in the coming period, including with the JenV Ministry: how do we ensure that as many people as possible can make use of it and that it also remains workable at the same time, both for the CBR and for the prosecution and enforcement?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u88	Finishing then, short and pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u89	Well, then, rounding it up. Then I expect you to indicate in the letter you send in two weeks' time whether you can at least give an indication of the numbers you are thinking about. Because, of course, we must have a substantial solution. It shouldn't be able to help four or five people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u90	No, I certainly don't expect it to be for four or five people. I just gave you a first rough assessment. I would like to do my best to see if we can fine-tune that in the letter you will receive before the summer recess, but I must point out that, of course, it will always be surrounded by the necessary margin, because different situations may occur in people. But I'm gonna see if we can refine the indication. Mr Stoffer asked about the reporting of the estimates relating to ICT. We have made an agreement with each other about this in the Rijks ICT dashboard. As you know, this happens with all IenW projects above the EUR 5 million limit. That's also the place we're reporting on. So that's where you can find it. You can, of course, use that and you can call me on the budget as well as on the annual report. Ms Van Brenk asked how the approach to meeting the GDPR is going to work. That is also a very important issue. The CBR is in the process of carrying out the activities set out in the plan of approach. It has assured me that it has completed those activities by the end of 2019. The lead time up to the end of the year is partly due to the fact that the CBR had to pick it up over the full width. I think I have indicated to you a number of debates ago that I myself have been concerned about this. I wasn't amused when I found out it wasn't finished. So I really hope that this year will be all right. Because you are absolutely right: it is about vulnerable, privacy-sensitive information. I really shouldn't think that something would go wrong with that. I've already said something about the open system. The CBR has indicated that it expects that around the summer 100% of the new "applications for medical treatment" will also be dealt with in the new system. This is followed by the operationalization of the notification process. That will then happen in the autumn of this year. It is about the communications that come through, for example, through the police. Mr Stoffer asked if the management of the CBR had blinkers when choosing the complex platform. At the time, the CBR requested a wide range of ICT components through a single European tender as usual. Despite this broad application, only a limited number of large market players in particular registered in that tender. If you look at the result now, given the functional requirements and the demands of the past, perhaps a simpler demand could have been placed on the market. Then maybe you could have made a simpler platform. But of course that's always from the now driven. That is also something that we see more widely: the wishes are always huge, but perhaps we should be a little more cautious and keep it a little simpler. Fortunately, it is not a disinvestment, because the new system is indeed... That remains to be seen, I see Mr Laçin thinking. But the system is faster and if everything is in place later, it must produce more decisions in the same effort than in the old system.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u91	I don't know, Mr President, but if I go from a budget of 7 million to 38 million, I think maybe I should have chosen something else after all. I do not know, Mr President, but I hope that someone will think somewhere in between: gee, this is getting really out of hand, maybe we have done something wrong and we should start pulling the emergency brake here. How come nothing just happened and we probably haven't finished with the 38 million yet? I'm sure the Minister can answer that. When we look at ZEMBLA, we get a slightly different picture than what the Minister is now sketching here. In my view, it must be the image of ZEMBLA. Could the Minister please take us into this? What's going on here? Because this goes from 7 million to 38 million without ringing the bell. I'm sure you'll come up with the answer to my question as to whether you knew this or not. Go ahead!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u92	I am indeed going to speak about this further. As long as we are in the sphere of numbers, I also come to the very specific question, Mrs Van Brenk. At the start of the programme in 2014, the total programme costs including the reorganisation provision amounted to 10 million. The total cost excluding the reorganisation provision amounted to 7 million. The ICT component within that 7 million was then less than 5 million. That was a first rough estimate of the costs. The tender and tender process was completed in the first quarter of 2016. Mrs. Van Brenk mentioned an internal memo. I'm not familiar with a memo like that, but I'll check with the CBR. I do not know whether Mrs Van Brenn herself can make any more clear about this, because we are not aware of such a memo. Maybe the confusion was in him that the total project including reorganisation was 10 million and that the ICT component of that 7 million was under 5 million. This may have caused confusion. That could be it. Otherwise, I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u93	I'll send the information anonymized to the minister. Then she can confront the CBR.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u94	Very good. Mr Dijkstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u95	Maybe it's all explainable in part. It is explained neatly in the letter of 8 May sent by the Minister on ICT at the CBR. If I go back to the big numbers, it is a total programme of which ICT is an important part. It is not about the total package, but you can see that costs have increased exorbitantly in a short time. I've been in the Chamber a little longer and I see every ICT project derailed from the government. Then when I see how it has been tendered and that a large database builder is working on the basis of hours, I think: something has gone wrong with the BIT test, the ICT tests we have and the audit services. It can't be true that we're going from this kind of amount to three, four or five times as much in one go.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u96	I fully agree with Mr Dijkstra. I think after the Elias Commission in your Chamber, we'll look at it everywhere. That's gotta be better. I think the dashboard gives more insight, including to the Chamber. I think it's good to combine it with that, because then you have the overall overview. So you can see that in several places it leads to such costs, which over and over and over again. That's where we have to learn lessons from each other. Whether it is in the form of contracting or in the form of unnecessarily complicated systems: I think it is a combination of factors, and I think it is a good thing that we discuss this further with the Chamber. In the case of new systems that we need to set up, I refer to the truck tax, of which fans and less big fans are present in the room. I also think it is important that we are always aware that any complexity we ask makes it more difficult to achieve it in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u97	Absolutely. If you had your house remodeled and the contractor said it had become four times more expensive, you'd have been calling the bell long ago and shutting down the construction. The government's going on and on. I think that's a bad thing. Of course we can do a lot in a moment, but we have paid the top prize for it and we are not even finished yet. How is the Minister going to control these costs, which are still running? Who's gonna take care of the setbacks? The own funds of the CBR are also not rosy. I see some problems there in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u98	I can agree with Mr Dijkstra that we must pay close attention to this. We see that widely in tenders. In the case of infra-projects where the software side is part of the CBR, we have seen this with each other. Not that long ago, we had to terminate a contract because it just went crazy. In this case, it has always been considered whether we should do something new and whether it would be better. You have to make that judgment every time. Of course, you prefer that you just have a contract in front of you that is properly served.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u99	It may be a rhetorical question and a repetition of moves. However, Mr Dijkstra just took the words out of my mouth. He's been here a couple of years. I haven't been here that long. But the Galan report shows that necessary cooperation between business, IT organisation and programme has not been optimal for a long time. Then I think: you see that every time. Did they have no idea what product they wanted at the end, which ultimately results in something that they do not want and what they want to do and what they want to do? Eventually, it costs tens of millions more than was originally intended. I have the feeling that there are always problems, because people do not really know what they want to have. Then people get to work and in the meantime things are getting out of hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u100	I think we have to conclude, however, that much more contact with the direct workplace is needed in order to specify the requirements with each other. You need to ask further and deeper, so you know exactly if everyone is expecting the same end product. But you'll have to agree on that in front. You know the example of the RIBS at Rijkswaterstaat. Then the demands of high speed and high waves were both in the tender, but unfortunately not in combination with each other. Those are stupid things that you really have to prevent from happening in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u101	I did a little digging into that dashboard today. In itself, I think it's a beautiful thing. You see the numbers rise in between and the planning runs out if something doesn't go well, but you still haven't solved that problem in front. I get that this isn't just for IenW, it's much wider, but how do we get to that front? That dashboard is good to have a good debate with each other in between, but it is also about the front in the organisations themselves. Something has to come up for that, and I still don't see it. But perhaps the Minister has a good idea of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u102	I don't have the ideal solution, but it's part of the statewide trajectory. The problems of the various implementing bodies, as mentioned earlier by Mr Van Dijk, among others, all have the ICT component. That is really part of the process that the ministries of SZW, Finance and BZK are now drawing to look at for the whole government. How can we improve this? The ICT component is a very important pillar in this and the Secretary of State for the Interior is working hard on it from the digitalisation of the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u103	I would very much like to go to the second term of the Chamber, so if you can do it a little short and pointy. Mr. Van Aalst, you're the best.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u104	Certainly, Mr President, I would like to give you the second deadline very quickly, but I still have so many questions that I can fill three deadlines here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u105	Cozy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u106	I have not yet received an answer as to whether or not the Minister was aware of this cost overrun. Overstepping? It's just a tenfold increase! We would have kept it neatly by 7 million, but the Minister spoke of 5 million and we might be 50 million. That is a tenfold increase! The CEO was aware of the situation. What does the Minister think of the image that this has just been promoted and is still in the organization, probably with a good salary?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u107	I have that last question in my folder, so I will come back to that. For an answer to the question when what is known, I refer to the letter of 8 May, which describes it. A lot of questions have also been asked about the doctors.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u108	Pfff... Mr. Laçin, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u109	You don't feel like it, do you, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u110	I'm really excited...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u111	I don't notice much of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u112	.. but I see a repetition of moves. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u113	I think that Mr Van Aalst's question has been answered too short. It is important for us to know at what point the Minister knew about the cost overrun, what that cost overrun was at the time and whether she shared it with the Chamber at that time. This is separate from the letter of 8 May, because this has, of course, been known to the Minister before. Did she share that with the Chamber then, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u114	I believe that all this is described in that letter, because of course there has not been one moment of cost overrun. There has been a development and we have indicated to you when what is known and when what is shared with the Chamber. If you have any specific questions about this, I would also like to hear them specifically. I can then take them in the letter for the summer, but I think we shared everything that can be shared with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u115	The report of the Galan Group, which was delivered last week, contains a bit of cryptic words. "In consultation with the Ministry of IenW in the ownership role, the additional costs will have to be provided with appropriate financial coverage." I'm very curious what that means. I am curious about the amount and what lies behind these words.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u116	I don't know exactly which page of the report this is on and exactly what it refers to. Would it be okay if I returned to that in the second term? Do you want to say exactly what sentence on which page you have it so I don't respond at the wrong cost?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u117	It's a big report, but I'll take a look. Page 356 or something. I'll take a look.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u118	That's what I like to hear, because I can't say this out of my head.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u119	I shall come back to that cost aspect. That's where the noise is. There has been a letter, but as far as I am concerned it does not clarify it either. That letter indicates that amounts have been reported at certain times, but it is unclear whether they have also been reported to the Ministry. And if they've been reported to the Ministry, why wasn't the Chamber informed? That's the point. Was the Minister aware of all these exceedances or was half of them reported by the CBR? However, at least the Chamber knows that it has not been fully informed by the Minister or that the CBR needs to be dealt with as it has sent the Minister to the Chamber with insufficient information. Something's going wrong. That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u120	As far as I'm aware, we gave all that information in the letter. If there are any gaps in that, I would like to hear exactly what points they are at, so that we can fill them out carefully in the letter that comes to your Chamber. Mr. Chairman. The next point is the medical examination, the doctors. Mr Laçin asked: have doctors left because of the reorganisation? The answer to that is yes. As part of the reorganisation, there have been a variety of personnel changes. Eighteen doctors have left since the start of the reorganisation in 2018, not all because of the reorganisation, but also because of their own choices, a different career and so on. So 18 of them left. Since then, nineteen new doctors have been recruited, plus a capacity of about 5 fte by the use of external examiners. So the CBR certainly doesn't cut doctors. Moreover, the CBR indicates that it is difficult to find doctors for this job. It has to do with this, and that is quite understandable, that doctors choose this profession out of conviction and like to see people as well. These doctors have no contact with the patients; they assess only the dossiers. Which means that for the average doctor it's not the job he or she's always dreamed of. Then I'll go into the story about the crash course. It was said that the doctors can be retrained in two days. That is really not the case. According to the CBR, the external doctors are indeed receiving a reduced education, but it is only a few weeks, so not a few days. It is also ensured that these doctors can only handle the simpler dossiers. They are also supervised by the Chief Medical Officers of the CBR. So there are no risks taken with people who are not well qualified.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u121	Mr President, you are looking a little threatening, but I am going to make an interruption. On page 46 of the report, there is simply another consideration, namely to adapt the reorganisation steps, including the closure of sites, in such a way as to avoid the risk of undesirable loss of scarce capacity. In particular, these doctors are referred to. My question is whether that is something the Minister is considering.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u122	I have to check with the CBR how it has dealt with this, but of course I think that is an important point. If by not taking this aspect with you in a location selection you would increase the problems, then we should not do so. So I'd like to check with the CBR on how this is going, whether they're taking sufficient account of this. If that is not the case, you will hear it from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u123	The Minister states in her initial words that there is certainly no saving. According to the information we have, there are now fewer doctors working at the CBR. But what is most important to me is that the Minister also contradicts my words that it would be a two-day emergency course. She says it would be a few weeks. I have this information directly from people who work there. So I would very much like this Minister, if she is not aware of that, to go after it immediately. I would also like her to confirm here that a regular training course for medical assessors normally lasts three to four months and cannot be completed within two days so that people get to work, to eliminate those delays and, for example, to approve something that was previously rejected in doubt. That's a method that's unacceptable. That the course lasts two days, I have heard of the CBR itself, of people who work there, so can the Minister go into that again?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u124	I think that is a very worrying signal from Mr Laçin. It's definitely worth getting to the bottom of this. The CBR gives you the information I just gave you, so I'll ask for clarification on how this is going to be done and how this is compatible with the sounds you hear. But I agree with you: no matter how long someone does about his education, everyone has to meet the requirements. Once again, the information I have is that those with a shortened journey of a few weeks, and certainly not days, should also do easier work under the supervision of the Chief Medical Officer of the CBR. But I'm gonna figure this out, and I suggest I answer you in the same letter for the summer as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u125	I'd love to. That's what I was gonna ask. Then I would like to ask the Minister whether she would also like to include in that letter those simple files that these doctors get and how they are monitored.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u126	I will ask the CBR for an explanation of how it distinguishes between light and heavier dossiers. The new medical advisers must therefore first undergo training of about three months. That's full training. Two classes will start in 2019. Given the lack of results so far, I have asked the CBR for a plan of action to really do more work on this and to get everything out of the closet. I told them I haven't seen a national campaign to interest doctors in this. To the left or to the right, we must have done everything we can to solve this deficit. Then there's the quality differences between the medical examiners. Some of you have also referred to the hearing in the Chamber. We've had conversations with the U.S. Department about the A.E.S. During the period 2019-2020, the review of the Quality, Complaints and Disputes Act will take place. VWS will also pay attention to the accessibility of the complaint law. During the recent interview the CBR had with medical examiners, the doctors themselves also confirmed that the procedures of the medical examiners are not always uniform. To improve this, the CBR will introduce a low-threshold and voluntary system of registration by approved doctors with the aim of also improving communication with these doctors and increasing uniformity. In addition, this system also makes checking the BIG registration of doctors easier. I believe that Mr Schonis has already asked for this in the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u127	That's right. Anyone with a BIG registration should be able to approve now. If that is checked better, I certainly welcome it. There has also been an enormous amount of work to be done on the costs of approval. I'm thinking of the example of someone who said: in The Hague there's an examiner where you put €25 in the tip jar and you walk out with your proof. Are you going to look into that again, because this cannot be the intention?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u128	No, that's definitely not the point. We've already asked for that. I thought I had already informed you of this in writing once. We'll just have to check it out. Otherwise, I will specifically include the results of those talks in the letter on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u129	The Minister has indeed sent answers to questions about the medical examiners. It also came out that the example from The Hague, which was outlined, could not be seen. I don't think I've been the only one, but I checked it on the Internet for a while, because we had name, name, address, etc., and it turns out that the gentleman is still active. So I don't know which registry the ministry's been looking for, but if you use Google, it's more than enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u130	I have just said to Mr Schonis that we will take it with us again in the letter that comes to your Chamber. Perhaps we should check with the CBR on this particular case. I'll get back to you on that. We don't know anything else. Then you talked about the director, that he shouldn't be promoted away. I repeat that the lady is still in office and will not be reappointed. A portfolio change has taken place in consultation between the Supervisory Board and the Executive Board, as I have told you before. Its responsibility now includes specifically the Road Safety Strategic Plan and the role of the CBR in it, the evaluation of the driving licence directive in relation to the CBR tasks, the development of a vision of examinators including data carriers, proposals in the area of corporate social responsibility and environmental analysis. So she's got plenty of work to do. The reward is in line with WNT, as you also know. You also mentioned the Supervisory Board. From the research of the Galan Group, I would like to point out that the supervisory board has been able to adequately fulfil its responsibilities, as has already been noted by PwC during the legal evaluation. In addition, no fewer than three new members have been appointed to the Supervisory Board in the last year, including the Chairperson. So there has already been a very active renewal. And with these three new members, I see no reason to send the Supervisory Board home.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u131	I understand somewhat the Minister's reasoning about sending the Supervisory Board home. But in order for us as MPs to be able to carry out our controlling task, the only means of steering a ZBO we have is a supervisory board. And if he refuses to come here and give us that information, I have just said it to Mr Dijkstra once in the first term, then it is exit as far as I am concerned. The only task a supervisory board has is to supervise and assist the Chamber with its controlling task. They didn't. And whether they're there for three months or three weeks, I don't give a shit. If you don't do your duties, you're gonna have to get out of here. And that's what I still think for the principal, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u132	Your opinion is well known to me, Mr Van Aalst, but I have also indicated to you that I understand that the fact that no one on the supervisory board was present was based on a misunderstanding. They also told me that they would like to make it up to you and have a conversation with all of you. I have heard from several Members that they have also spoken with the Supervisory Board. So I think there has just been absolutely no malice in the game on the part of the supervisory board. Then there is the question: what kind of insight do you really have? In addition to the monthly reporting, there is of course intensive contact between the Ministry and the CBR at official level. The Supervisory Board also speaks to the Ministry every six weeks. And as you know, there is also external testing, as recently by the Galan Group. At the end of June, the Gateway Office will also follow up the Gateway Review on the ICT programme. I have also indicated to you that once the system is completed, we will have the entire process around the new ICT system evaluated externally. We're not doing that now, not to increase the problems. But that's definitely going to happen, because we really need to learn from that. Mr Van Aalst also commented on the health statement form. This has been improved since the end of 2018, for example for people who no longer have current ADHD status. I have just given this example in the direction of Mr Schonis. If there are many reports of certain shortcomings in the form, then the CBR must of course ring the bell and adjust the forms. Why is it so CBR so hostile towards driving schools? That was another question from Mr Van Aalst. We don't recognize that image directly. There is constructive consultation between the Ministry, the CBR, the IBKI and the three trade associations. The CBR indicates that driving schools are important partners to help the candidates as well. However, there has been the problem that some driving schools have used robots in the reservation system to cut off other driving schools and score earlier. Those are things that need to be dealt with, but I'm sure you agree with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u133	I certainly agree with that. But especially when it comes to the image that apparently there is not with the Minister of how the driving school holder is being treated, I have an example here. This is a person who has been working at the CBR for 16 years now. And he gets it in his head to respond to a driving school manager who is critical of the CBR: "This trainer is targeting the CBR on all fronts. We are constantly suffering from this and we need to maintain and tackle him hard." If that is the way the CBR works, then we can have many debates here, but then we are not going to solve that mess. Doesn't the Minister agree with me? This kind of thing can't be tolerated.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u134	I don't know this example. We have also just talked about the culture at the CBR and the approach of customers. The CBR itself indicates to be fully engaged in this and will offer additional trainings for this purpose. I want to take away the image that there are all very horny types working at the CBR. A few may not behave quite well, but we must not forget that a lot of people daily do their best to ensure that it all goes as well as possible and are very sensitive to the people with problems. In fact, there are people who are very depressed about it themselves and suffer from the fact that their CBR cannot perform well each time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u135	Fine. Can we get to the second term yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u136	Almost. Mr Van Aalst had a few more questions. Why does the CBR use the rule of the dog? The CBR doesn't. The trade association BOVAG does make that requirement to its members. In addition, this will be regulated by law on 1 January, as an effect on the request of your Chamber in relation to the WRM.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u137	No, it wasn't about the vog, but it was about the VvG. I will not go into detail, because then it will be very complicated. In particular, this is what I have outlined: should the CBR not simply be about examining and should the CBR not take those medical powers externally? That takes the pressure off the boiler at the CBR and then, I think, the CBR can deal with its core tasks: examine and test driving power.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u138	Mr Van Aalst is right about that. In fact, I would have liked to explain this to the medical experts. I can imagine Mr Van Aalst's thinking very well, but it is really something else. Mr Schonis has already hinted at this in his speech. The point is that, in order to obtain the medical certificate of fitness, you first need a doctor who confirms the medical image: what can and cannot be done? But that doctor, the specialist or the general practitioner, cannot then judge what that does for someone's driving skills. That is why it is just as well, and that is where Mr Van Aalst also insisted that doctors who have been doctors for a long time and have medical knowledge still have to do training on the significance of driving skills. Does anyone get an ordinary driving licence or a driving licence with a disability, for example, that they can't drive at night or when it's dark? There are all kinds of variations possible, for example that someone can only drive an automatic. Only the medical expert of the CBR can assess such limitations. That's exactly the difference. That is why it does not make much sense to organise it externally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u139	I've got a different picture of that. I think you're going to an outside party where you get a medical statement. Then you go to the CBR to take the exam. In between you will be tested again by the CBR. What's the problem now? You can just stage someone for an exam like that, can't you? Anyone can estimate that it's a different story if someone only has one leg, but with someone who has ADHD, can't they just take an exam? The medical review can take place afterwards, right? Then the pressure is off at the exam institute, the CBR. An outsider can do a great job with that. The moment those people have their two documents together, they're ready to go to City Hall and pick up their driver's license. I see it as a very practical solution to make the CBR work better. In my opinion, the law provides for the CBR to issue driving licences, not medical examinations. I think we have other specialists for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u140	I'm gonna try again. The bottleneck sits with the medical experts who can assess in which health situation and under what conditions people can or can no longer drive. The CBR is struggling to attract enough people who can. Then you can say that an external institute has to do it, but then those doctors would have to go there and then that institute would have the same trouble to bring those doctors in. As I pointed out, one of the reasons why it is difficult to get enough doctors to do that is that doctors prefer to have daily contact with patients, and that is not the case in this case. That is why I have now asked for a plan of action. Is there any way we can get retired people back? Can we use a broader recruitment action? Can't doctors who do see patients do this one day a week? Think of something. We need to figure something out with each other to get enough of those experts. They have to be properly trained first, and I look at Mr Laçin, but can then be used for that. The last question is also from Mr Van Aalst: does the CBR also deal with RIS? If so, isn't that wrong? The future of RIS and its investment in tasks are part of the policy path leading the strategic plan. I just remembered that maybe not everyone knows what RIS is. That's the Driving Training In Steps. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u141	Thank you. Mr Van Aalst, briefly and pointy?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u142	Yes, because my point is that because the CBR is a kind of provider, there is some kind of distortion of competition with other drivers, who may or may not be able to join. I note that there is a distinction in the time limit for driving. Everyone wants to get their driver's license quickly, but it can't be true that you have to wait longer with a driver who is not affiliated to the RIS than you have to apply for an exam via RIS at the CBR. It cannot be that the CBR is going to compete in the market of drivers. Doesn't the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u143	I'll check the difference in time. The implementation of RIS has been entrusted to the CBR since 2002, so that is basically simply carried out on the basis of the previous request. I'll let you know if it's as you say it is, which is that the CBR lets its own candidates go for it. We will find out and I will come back to that in the letter before the summer. That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u144	Fine. Then we will go to the second term of the Chamber, as far as there is a need for it. You don't have to. Don't feel obligated! But Mr Van Aalst insists. He has the floor for his second term. He's got one minute and 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u145	Mr. Chairman. I'll be brief. Let's come back. Someone said we're not gonna talk about tough talk here. As far as the supervisory board is concerned, it's not a tough talk, but I still think it's just disdainful of the Chamber that you don't show up. It's our only steering mechanism and we need to be able to rely on it. Three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that it is still a mess at the CBR;]] [[considers that this should end as soon as possible;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with a short-term plan of action to clean up the mess at the CBR,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is currently a distorted relationship between the CBR and driving school holders;]] [[considers that:]] [[the student is the victim;]] [[there must be a healthy relationship between the CBR and driving school holders;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate the causes of the disturbed relationship between driving school holders and the CBR,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Aalst. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29398-707]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Aalst. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29398-708]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u146	I'm forgetting one more motion, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u147	But seconds are ticking away, Mr. Van Aalst. And we're tough today!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u148	The most important! [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that:]] [[the CBR is unable to remove the waiting lists;]] [[the CBR is a driving examination institute and not a medical expert;]] [[considers that the medical examination should not be linked to the driving test but to the driving licence;]] [[requests the Government to examine the possibility of placing the medical examination with an external party,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Aalst. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29398-709]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u149	Then Mr Laçin of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u150	Mr. Chairman. At least we seem to have a solution for the 75-plus. I also think that we need to work that out quickly and see how that works, but that does not solve the key problems, which the Minister also reiterated at the CBR. Since the CBR is also under enhanced supervision, I would very much like more information from the Minister on the ICT side about the two systems that are currently running. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the figures to the Chamber on the Central Bureau of Driving Certificates (CBR) now only show the number of cases handled;]] [[Whereas, in order to give a clear picture of the situation at the CBR, the figures on the working stock should also be clear;]] [[Invites the government to provide the Chamber with a quarterly view of the CBR's working stock within OPUS and SCOOP, and also to look back in the first report the quarter before,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Laçin. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29398-710]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u151	Then there is the second motion on the reorganisation which also affects the doctors. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the reorganisation programme "Fitness to the steering wheel" is in the process of failure;]] [[calls on the government to stop the centralisation of the medical department in Rijswijk immediately so that further outflow of doctors can be prevented and things can be put in order at the CBR,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Laçin. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29398-711]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u152	Finally. I have also put a lot of emphasis on the emergency courses, that the two days cannot as far as I am concerned. I would also like to make a motion on this, but with the Minister's commitment to take a good look at it and inform us in the letter before the summer, I will keep it in my pocket for a while, and we will certainly come back to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u153	Mr Von Martels of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u154	Thank you, Mr President. We have all come to the conclusion that the CBR must take new steps. That is what this motion is aimed at. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are major structural problems in the CBR with significant adverse effects on the driver;]] [[noting that all drivers in the Netherlands aged 75 or over who wish to renew their driving licence must undergo a compulsory medical examination and the CBR must take a decision on a person's fitness to drive using this information;]] [[Considering that this leads to a major structural bottleneck at the CBR, while SWOV recommended in 2011 that the age-related assessment be abolished because research in several European countries has not shown that in countries with mandatory age-based inspections the road safety of older drivers has improved;]] [[Whereas, in the event of possible abolition, it is important to establish an alternative system ensuring road safety and medical professional secrecy;]] [[calls on the Government to ask SWOV to update the 2011 study and to come forward with alternative proposals for a workable solution;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with a schedule for this in the promised letter before the summer recess;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr von Martels, Mr Van Brenn, Mr Remco Dijkstra and Mr Schonis. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29398-712]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u155	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I told you before: the Minister offers a solution in three parts. A short-term coulance scheme until a new AMvB is in place, but it has made it conditional. She is going to do some research and it is not yet certain that this coulance scheme will actually be introduced in the short term. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that organisational difficulties in the CBR have led to a considerable delay in extending driving licences;]] [[Whereas the Minister is considering an adjustment of the rules;]] [[noting that this adaptation will be completed at the earliest after the summer of 2019 and that a large group of people are still without a valid driving licence;]] [[calls on the Government to establish a coulance scheme for the remaining year 2019, which means that residents will not be punished if they temporarily drive without a valid licence, because they are awaiting their new driving licence,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Schonis and Mr von Martels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29398-713]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u156	Then the Minister says: there will be an administrative extension, which I do at AMvB. That'll be a year before anyone with their license can move on. In the end, it will come to a system review. If I understand correctly, she will come forward with a letter before the summer, starting after the summer. In that revision of the system, a motion to add. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the current Arrangement requires suitability 2000 to include a list of cases of medical conditions for which driving licences must be checked;]] [[Whereas there is a discussion in scientific circles as to whether all these diseases affect the ability to drive;]] [[calls on the regime to review the current list of medical conditions when changing the system,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Schonis and Mr von Martels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29398-714]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u157	Mr President, the CBR Central Bureau for Driving, if I am correct; let me look at the Minister, it is true that there are three tasks. Assessing the ability to drive, assessing the medical fitness, and checking whether professionals in the transport and logistics sector are competent. It is right that they are under surveillance, rightly so, when you hear the poignant stories of all the people who have been affected. They made their application in time, but they still haven't received an answer. They've been on hold for hours, and when they get a reaction, it's either too late or it's just not right. We have to solve that with each other, but it's not gonna happen from today to tomorrow. That goes in steps. I am glad that the Minister is on top of it, that they are now under supervision and that we can take a step in that since yesterday. I want to cooperate fully on this. I've never worked for the government myself, but I still see it as some kind of company. That needs to be customer-oriented and efficient, and it just isn't, so we need to do something about that. This is where the system appears to be central instead of the people. If it was a company, it would lose all its customers, but at the CBR you have no choice, because that's still a monopolist. I have expressed my concerns about cost overruns. I see some problems there in the future. People also do good work at the CBR; we have to say that, but they also have gold-edged arrangements, I see. Please let them do everything in work... What do you call that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u158	Doing everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u159	Exactly, you say it: do everything in your power to ensure that they also know who they are doing it for, for the Dutch who want to stay mobile.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u160	Thank you. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs Van Brenk from the 50PLUS group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u161	Mr. Chairman. I think that everyone in the Netherlands, but also here in the Chamber, hopes that there will be light at the end, that there will be a solution to this misery, because it affects a lot of people. We have a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the possibility of amending the rules on the extension of the period of validity of the 75-pluss driving licence is being examined;]] [[Whereas the problems of the CBR should be addressed as soon as possible;]] [[Whereas this scheme can make a major contribution to solving the problems of the CBR;]] [[Whereas many people waiting for their driving licences need clarity;]] [[calls on the Government to proceed directly to this procedure if it appears possible before the summer recess,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Brenn, Mr Stoffer and Mr Remco Dijkstra. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29398-715]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u162	We're gonna listen to the minister. I rented this room until 3:30, and then a VAO starts. We also have a pension debate and an AOW age debate. It's gonna be at least one or two hours tonight. So I really want to be brief, short and pointy. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u163	Mr. Chairman. I'll be walking by the motions very soon. The first is the motion in part No. Mr Van Aalst, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, asked for a short-term plan of action to clean up the mess at the CBR. I'm going to discourage that motion, because we have a wide range of things that we're working on. Then the motion to part No. 708 by Mr Van Aalst. He also asks to do research into the causes of the disturbed relationship between driving school holders and the CBR. I have indicated that I do not have those signals myself, but also that I am prepared to look into them further on the basis of your information. I have promised to return to that in the letter I am sending to the Chamber for the summer, so I would ask you to hold the motion until I know what it is about and I have reported to you on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u164	At the request of Mr Van Aalst, I propose his motion (29398, No. 708). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u165	Then I come to the motion on part No. 709 by Mr Van Aalst, requesting that the medical examination be carried out with an external party. I have indicated that I do not see the added value of this, so I do not recommend it. Then I come to the motion on part No. 710 by Mr Laçin. It invites the government to provide the Chamber with a quarterly view of the CBR's working stock within OPUS and SCOOP and also to look back on the quarter before it in the first report. I would suggest that you do so first in the letter before the summer and then simply join the regular times when I inform you about it. It won't come exactly every quarter, but it will. I understand the thrust of your motion. If I can interpret her like that, I can take her over.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u166	Does one of the members object to this? Yes, with Mr. Dijkstra. So we're gonna vote on it. Then I'd like to hear your opinion, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u167	Well, I think that's a little faint. Then I'm gonna say Judgement Room, because it's something new. Then I come to the motion on part No. 711 by Mr Laçin. It calls on the government to stop the centralization of the medical department in Rijswijk immediately. For the sake of clarity, I would ask Mr Laçin to keep it because we are currently examining how it is going. So let me come back to how this is done in practice. That's what's being looked at right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u168	The logical question then is when you will come back to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u169	Can't quite report it. As soon as it's clear, I'll come back to you. To be honest, that will not work before the summer recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u170	Can the Minister indicate in the letter before the summer recess when she can sort of come back to it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u171	I'm sure it'll work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u172	Then I'll hold her, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u173	At the request of Mr Laçin, I propose his motion (29398, No. 711). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u174	Then the motion to part No. 712 by Mr von Martels with a number of co-signators. It invites the government to ask SWOV to update the 2011 study and to come up with a planning for that workable long-term solution in a letter for the summer recess. If I may interpret her in such a way that that planning will be a first sketch it will be in two weeks' time I can take over that motion. Of course, you should not expect concrete planning with dates and so on, because that really cannot be done in two weeks. If it's a global sketch, a first survey, I could take her over.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u175	I'm trying to read Mr. von Martels' body language. He's shaking no.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u176	In a mood? I said take over, so I agree. Then she can be judged Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u177	Then the motion to part No. 713.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u178	Then the motion to part No. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). It invites the government to set up a coulance scheme. There are now different concepts about this. I would actually ask Mr Schonis to hold on to this motion until the letter you receive before the summer recess, because then you can see how the current arrangements are working out and you can judge whether you think it is sufficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u179	I had heard the date of July 1st, but I think our summer recess is starting July 5th. That's correct, isn't it? If I have the letter before July 1st, I'll do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u180	I don't know if it's all in that letter. I made a lot of promises in that letter, so I find that complicated, but let us do it in such a way that on that last day, when there are all kinds of VAOs and so on, you can do something with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u181	Agreed. Then I'll keep her on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u182	At the request of Mr Schonis, I propose his motion (29398, No. 713). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u183	The Schonis/Von Martels motion in part No. 714 calls on the government to review the current list of medical conditions when changing the system. You're aware that I'm not in charge of that myself. That is the competence and responsibility of the Health Council. If I may read her in such a way that I insist on it at the Health Council, then I can give her judgment Chamber, but you must realize that I have to accept it if they do not want to do so for any reason. Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u184	Mr Schonis nods yes, just before the report.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u185	Then I have the final motion. That's the Van Brenn c.s. motion. in piece No. 715, which asks the Government to proceed directly to this procedure if it appears possible before the summer recess. I would ask Mrs Van Brenk to hold that motion because I will be clear in the next few weeks from the CBR and from the JenV Ministry on whether it is indeed possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u186	Mrs. Van Brenk raises her thumb.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u187	There is another question from Mr Dijkstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u188	I accept the Minister's explanation of the motion in part No. 710, so I think we can accept Mr Laçin's motion. Then it doesn't have to have a judgment room anymore, but we can just take her over. That was the one I was bothering about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u189	Yes, then it will be taken over and we will not vote on it. As you wish.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u190	Yeah, it turned out to be page three, but maybe the minister's got an answer ready by now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u191	Oh, you were only 350 pages off. Well...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u192	Honestly, that had not become me yet, so I suggest that we include that in the letter. Otherwise, we're gonna have to waste a lot of time on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u193	Thank you. So far. I thank the Minister for her presence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-8.u194	On Tuesday we shall vote on the remaining motions. I don't know how many there are, but not so much anymore. I'll suspend for a few moments. Afterwards we will deal with the VAO Innovation.
