ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-3.u1	The next item is Mr Kwint's question, on behalf of the SP, to the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media, whom I would also like to welcome, on tutoring for secondary school students.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Our fear as SP when it comes to education is the American system. Pay off a lifelong debt, and only good education if you pay tens of thousands of euros. Or get a grab nozzle thrown in the form of a scholarship. Education no longer as a law but as a favor. But, that's how we hear it, fortunately we are far from in the Netherlands; with us primary school and secondary school are still free. And that's right, we haven't gotten there yet. Unfortunately, education is no longer free in the Netherlands. If it is not the towering parental contribution, then it is the paid tutoring to which parents pay. Over 200 million pay parents of children in high school a year to get their children paid up. A third of secondary school pupils are now undergoing supplementary education. The growth is mainly seen in the big cities. And if you're really cute, you send your kid to private education. This has a 50% growth rate in students in five years. And what does the Minister say? We do not know exactly why this growth is so strong in the big cities, but we have to talk, among other things, about parents' expectations. So let me give him a hand. That's how I am, because I know it: it's not the parents. Where is the shortage of teachers in primary school the greatest? In the big cities. And where's the teacher shortage in high school? In the big cities. Where do you have a plethora of students who would like to earn a penny to keep their student debt somewhat contained? In the big cities. And where do you have the largest group of parents whose children grow up in poverty? In those same big cities. This is what division looks like. This is what the class struggle in our education looks like. So the Minister acknowledges that these figures are a sign of an increasing division between rich and poor? What is he going to do to prevent the aforementioned American conditions? How is he going to prevent good education from becoming merely elite education? And when the Minister talks with Prime Minister Rutte and the educational field tomorrow night, is the question of how we're going to solve that teacher shortage and what it's going to cost, at the top of the agenda? Because without extra money, without more and well trained teachers, mopping with the crane is open.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-3.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Mr Kwint for his first reaction to a report which is still very fresh; it has just finished. This investigation was carried out at the request of the Chamber. The good news of this report is as follows. Two years ago, this research was done for the first time, and then we expected that additional education or shadow education would probably increase you very much in the following years. The good news is that this report makes it clear that the figures of two years ago are actually the figures of today, when it comes to the size and the amounts involved. This report, in addition to the previous report, has also made it more clear to us about the motives of parents to opt for supplementary education. It is also good to know that part of this is simply the unpaid offer and part is the paid offer. Given the motives, we see a considerable diversity, and there are indeed, on the basis of this report, a number of questions to ask. Why do parents choose to do that? How does that relate to what we expect from schools, to what we give to schools in relation to the education they have to give? And is it or is it not in line with each other? In fact, we have a few additional questions about what is happening geographically. But again, I welcome this report and I am glad that the Chamber has asked for it. I think it offers us enough opportunities to discuss this subject again. That is also important, because we do want every child to have the opportunity to receive good education.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-3.u5	I'm a little surprised this is it already. I thought this was the general introduction. The question is, of course, what are we going to do about this? I had asked a specific question about the discussion that the Prime Minister and the Minister are going to have tomorrow with the field of education. When are we going to see these figures fall? The Minister says it's the same as it was two years ago. Yeah, that's right. It has increased 700% in the past just over ten years. Since Prime Minister Rutte moved into the Tower, expenditure on shadow education has increased by a small 700%. You were almost going to suggest a connection. My question is: what are you going to do about these big cities? Do you recognise that because of the relationship with the shortage of teachers, the problems are greatest, that parents therefore resort to paid tutoring and that this has a negative effect on the equality of opportunity, especially in those big cities, where there are so many children who just need some extras?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-3.u6	This investigation has now taken place for the second time. The results show that the size and costs have remained at the same level. For the reasons behind parents opting for tutoring, Mr.Kwint gives his interpretation when it comes to the big cities. With this report in hand, you cannot draw this conclusion. We're seeing something very clearly. When parents choose tutoring, there is often discontent about the way the school treats their child or children. We can also see from this report that it is new information that if a school communicates well with parents about the progress of their children, the urge on parents to choose tutoring becomes less. We see something else: parents especially opt for homework guidance to replace what should be their own commitment to the guidance of their children. In short, there is a huge diversity of reasons and underlying motives. I think it is very important that we take this report seriously. Of course, with this report, I will start the talks, including with the councils, both in primary and secondary education, who have already indicated themselves. The report is only just out of the question that they think it is important that there is complete clarity about the relationship between what they offer and what is offered commercially and that the equality of opportunity should be paramount.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-3.u7	A variety of reasons, but there is one common thread: it is increasing in the big cities. What is the match with other problems in education? That even there is the greatest shortage of teachers. I have now asked the Minister several times about what he is going to do in the discussion with the Prime Minister and education tomorrow evening. I'll expand it a little bit. Last weekend we read in the NRC that the reason why there was no extra money for education was that D66 thought the other parties would ask but that other parties thought "D66 thinks they are an education party, so they will ask for the extra money," which ultimately didn't ask anyone for it and so no extra money was added.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-3.u8	And the subject was about tutoring, wasn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-3.u9	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-3.u10	So stay focused, Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-3.u11	"At class." I think that is a nice choice in this context, Mr President. We're in October now. The first half of the year was 14 billion. That money is not spent by this kind of cynical power politics. Can the Minister at least tomorrow, when he takes that important investigation into division into that conversation with the Prime Minister and education, make sure that the extra money needed to solve the shortage of teachers to combat that division really goes to those teachers?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-3.u12	This report has been requested by the Chamber itself. It really has a huge importance. The report provides us with sufficient tools to further reflect on how we should deal with our education, also in relation to what parents sometimes want and what is offered in addition, also commercially. We have to do this carefully. Last week, we discussed the discussion that will take place tomorrow with the field of education in detail in a general discussion and in a general discussion report. I have been clear about the government's commitment to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-3.u13	I would like to talk again about the report and, in fact, about the Minister's response to that report. Because he indicated that parents set far too high demands on students, on their children. That surprises me a little bit. I would like to ask the Minister whether he is aware that raising high expectations also leads to better results for children and that it is very much to be encouraged that parents feel involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-3.u14	In turn, I am a little surprised at Mr Rog's surprise, because this is not new. I also mentioned this earlier during the wide-ranging consultation we had on shadow education. There may be very legitimate reasons to organise supplementary education. Sometimes it's even necessary. We even finance this as a government, in view of the equality of opportunity that we want to promote. This is done, among other things, with the means of education that are lagging behind. But there is indeed one aspect that I have been critical of. I am critical when parents ask so many of their children that it is actually beyond their control and that it can be more and more and higher and higher at the expense of the child itself. I will continue to criticize this because I think it is right that we should also discuss it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-3.u15	We have also tried to look at that report as closely as possible in that very short period of time. There are a number of links to the previous report. Indeed, we can see that the increase in shadow education really increases the odds gap. Parents who have studied and have more money can easily pay for tutoring, homework guidance and exam training. In his letter, the Minister discusses what can be done to counter shadow education. What surprises me is that the Minister outlines a number of options, but then he himself finds that he is going to discuss them even further. My question to the Minister is: is it not now time to take concrete measures to at least prevent shadow education from becoming even greater than it is today?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-3.u16	This discussion concerns in particular what happens to supplementary education for which payment is made. From my responsibilities, I would particularly like to engage in a discussion with education about the situation that this is happening under the responsibility of the school itself, sometimes even actively referring to commercial providers, such as 'you must be aware of that, but it must be paid for'. If the responsibility that we ourselves ask of schools, for example when it comes to the specific support of pupils who are lagging behind, then indeed we need to have a discussion about this. I am glad that the Councils themselves have also indicated that they would like to make further agreements with me on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-3.u17	We'll keep trying. Does the Minister recognise the link between this report on the increase in shadow education specifically in the major cities and, for example, the point we were discussing last week, namely that the shortage of teachers is particularly affecting large cities? We saw yesterday in Nieuwsuur that teachers can no longer do what they think they are trained to do there. Is he willing to include this specifically in the approach to shadow education?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-3.u18	On the basis of this report, that's just a really quick conclusion. You really can't just pull that conclusion in hand with this report. However, there are differences between what is made in the big cities, including by parents, and what we see in other parts of the country. That is not just something to be seen, and then we shall proceed to the order of the day. We shall therefore continue to talk about this. We will also try to identify the underlying causes. I have just indicated that, and this is evident from the report "Their parents are dissatisfied with the way in which the school communicates about the learning performance of their child or children, and that is why they turn to tutoring. As you have seen in the report, this is one of the main reasons and also one of the most important cost items for supplementary education.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-15-tweedekamer-3.u19	Thank you.
