ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u1	The next item is the debate on the announcement that the chairman of the SP group is being held in Eindhoven in Turkey. We are holding this debate in the presence of the Foreign Minister, whom I warmly welcome among us. Seven speakers have spoken on the side of the Chamber. They all have four minutes' speaking time. I give the floor to Mrs Karabulut of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Since 30 April, the Dutch people's representative, our Murat Memis, who is chairman of my party, the SP, in the city council of Eindhoven, has been stuck in Turkey. Pending trial, he can't leave the country. Not because he's a criminal; he's a popular representative. Not because he's a terrorist; he's a peace activist. But it is because Murat has taken advantage of his freedom of speech, as we do here on a daily basis. Like many human rights organisations, almost all Members of Parliament here and the Minister, he has criticised the government in Turkey. He criticized retweeting tweets of journalists and other representatives of the people. That criticism is entirely justified, because, especially since the failed coup attempt in 2016, almost all human rights in that country have been violated. Turkey is also interfering, and that is illegal in armed conflicts in neighbouring countries, as in Syria, because they are fighting against the Kurds who have fought against the IS, not the IS. Mr. Chairman. Murat is one of the 100,000 people who have been arrested since 2016 in a wave of extreme repression. More and more foreigners, such as journalist Deniz Yücel from Germany, journalist Max Zirncast from Austria and American pastor Andrew Brunson, are also getting screwed. Previously, the Dutch journalists Fréderike Geerdink and Ebru Umar were arrested and arrested respectively. In all these cases, action has been taken to the highest level and it was very clear that it was called for release. Fortunately, these people are free again, but Murat isn't. He and other Dutch political prisoners are still trapped in Turkey. For one reason or another, a reason which is unclear to me has not so far been called upon to be released by the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Does the Minister stand for democracy? Does our minister stand for freedom of speech? The Minister writes and says several times that he wants to wait for the trial. I ask the Minister, through you, Chairman, why he chooses this. Why isn't there a plea for release now? Why wait for the trial in Turkey, where people as we know can be held for years? Why does the Minister have confidence in the Turkish rule of law, where trials according to Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch are often completely unfair? Why doesn't the Minister set off alarm calls, when everyone knows that super-vague anti-terrorism laws are being abused for political trials? Mr. Chairman. Of course, my criticism is not directed at the officials. I know there's a lot of diplomatic work done by the ambassador and her team. But I also want our minister to just send a clear signal to that effect, he just made an attempt on the Square, when the family offered him a manifesto, namely that Dutch political prisoners should be released for the first time, just like almost all the parties in this parliament have given that signal to the minister and ask for it just like the signatories of the manifesto for Murat. Speak up, make clear where you stand and commit to release. Stand up for our people. Mr. Chairman. Meanwhile, more and more Dutch people are wondering whether they can still go safely to Turkey. How can innocent people get stuck in Turkey? Does the Minister know and can he perhaps tell us how Murat but also, for example, the young Rotterdam woman with her baby have been arrested and imprisoned and/or held hostage in Turkey? The travel advice has been tightened up but I wonder and I would like to ask the Minister: shouldn't there just be a negative travel advice for anyone who has ever been critical of developments in Turkey? Because we see what could be the disastrous consequence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mrs Karabulut. The next speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs Ploumen, a member of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mr. Chairman. According to the Minister's letter, there are twenty Dutch citizens either trapped in Turkey or unable to leave the country. Let me be clear: I am going to argue here for the Minister's active commitment to the political prisoners. One of those people who cannot leave the country is an elected representative of this country. Someone citizens in Eindhoven could vote for, someone who represents the interests of the citizens of Eindhoven. This person has now just been arrested in Turkey and cannot leave the country on the basis of accusations that would really be as thin as a piece of gelatine here. And he's not the only one. There is a resident of Rotterdam, a woman with her young baby, already stuck since the end of April on the basis of the same very thin accusations. The Dutch government, this minister, says to do quiet diplomacy, but the fact is that he quietly leaves Dutch citizens in the cold. The Minister claims in the letter that he can't do any more and that making noise won't help. He refers to the rule of law Turkey, but we all know that the rule of law is rather flawed. We also know from experience that no more doing and no more making noise does not produce any results. Then what does it help? As Mr Karabulut said, citizens of other countries have also been detained, for example Germans. What did the German government do? In response to questions from the Bundestag, he wrote down the measures it has taken to obtain the release of citizens. Let me get this straight: we did. You can look up the letter in German, by the way, but I translated it. 1. The problem of prisoners has been discussed at all political levels up to the Bundeskanzler. 2. There has simply been a plea for release, with no reference to the rule of law. 3. The ambassador has been summoned. 4. There has been daily contact with the Turkish authorities about the detained citizens. 5. There has been a threat of sanctions against German political prisoners by the German Foreign Minister. The Americans got someone off today, three days before Erdogan and Trump might meet at the G20 summit in Japan. That can't be a coincidence. So then my questions and suggestions to the Minister. I would like to hear from the Minister when he is going to take this German approach. In concrete terms, that means the following. 1. That these matters are discussed at all political levels, including contact between Prime Minister Rutte and President Erdogan. 2. That the Minister is unconditionally pleading for release. 3. That the Minister is summoning the Turkish ambassador; he's right around the corner. 4. That the Minister ensures that there is daily contact with the Turkish authorities about the detained Dutch citizens at high level of government and weekly at political level. 5. That the minister is going to threaten sanctions for the Dutch political prisoners. I have another suggestion about the latter. The Netherlands has been the most important investor in Turkey for years. This is valuable, but it can also be used by the Minister in the contacts with the Turkish authorities. The Turkish economy is wracking. The Turkish government has an active policy to attract more Dutch investors. The Minister himself is committed to that. I would like to ask him: with that in mind, would you like to stress to the Turkish authorities that it is not possible for a country with which you want to intensify economic relations, to imprison, to imprison Dutch citizens and not to leave the country? I'd like to hear when the Minister starts these actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u5	Thank you, Mrs Ploumen. I give the floor to Mr Van Helvert of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u6	Mr. Chairman. Four centuries and seven years ago, diplomatic relations between the Netherlands and Turkey began. So we have generally had very good diplomatic relations for four centuries. During the Dutch Uprising and after that Turkey was already an ally of the Netherlands. After World War II, many Turks helped to build the Netherlands by coming to the Netherlands. We are very grateful to the Turks for that. In 2012, Turkey was also the largest investor in the Floriade in Venlo. President Gül came here and was welcomed by Beatrix, our queen in those days. So close, and yet it seems so far away now. In the meantime, we see that diplomatic relations have improved when it comes to an ambassador from both sides, but we still see a lot of differences that we are not really properly discussed, at least not in public. Mr. Chairman. We can now see that a colleague of ours, a fellow representative of the people, is being held because of what he said in his role as a representative of the people. That is extremely serious. It is terrible that people are being held for political reasons. We've talked about that on a regular basis here in this room. The detention of democratically elected politicians is even more serious because it also directly attacks democracy. In the debate last week with the Prime Minister, we discussed that this is not on its own, because we also see that our fellow politician Lübcke was murdered in Germany. Colleagues here in this Parliament, too, should, when conducting investigations into countries within the European Union, have street security. Now we also see our colleague being held from Eindhoven. Mr. Chairman. I would first like to ask the Minister what we can do, what the Minister can do, and what he needs from us to put extra strength into our fellow Member's release. What can we do to ensure that once the colleague is free, he can do his job properly when he gets back to work here, that he feels free to say, tweet and do what he wants in the interests of Dutch society and, in the case of Murat, in the case of Eindhoven society?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u7	Thank you to Mr Van Helvert, who, like Mr Karabulut and myself, is in favour of our fellow people's representative. He asks the Minister what can be done. I have just made five specific suggestions to the Minister. What does Mr Van Helvert think of these suggestions? Do you think he'd like to take over?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u8	I find these suggestions very valuable. I think the Minister should do everything he can. But I am not in favour of putting the Minister in a straitjacket: you will do it by this way or by that way. I want to give the Minister every opportunity to choose the best path. But I can support all the suggestions made by Mrs Ploumen if she means that I put them in the Minister's toolbox so that he can choose the best one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u9	Thank you for that. The fact is that until now the Minister has been given all of us room for manoeuvre and that this has led to nothing. A number of specific suggestions could then perhaps be submitted to the Minister more compellingly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u10	What we can do here is to ask whether we have done enough so far: should we not use heavier guns? For example, Mrs Ploumen suggested investment. We are the big investor in Turkey and we are also getting good investment from Turkey this way. Isn't that something you can put more pressure on? I think that's a very valuable suggestion. Have we done enough? If that is not the case, we can certainly ask the Minister to do so. I would like to add one more example that is also relevant. Mrs Karabulut also spoke about this. There's a Dutch lady stuck in Turkey, along with her baby. The Turkish police and intelligence services have produced a report stating that the Kurdish People's Foundation in Rotterdam is a branch of the PKK. In that report, the Netherlands gets quite a bit of a kick in the butt too. I think this is serious, too. Does the Minister agree with the Turks that the Kurdish People's Foundation in Rotterdam is a branch of the PKK? If that is not the case, then I do not think that is the case, but I am not in the intelligence service; I do not think that the Kurdish People's Foundation in Rotterdam is a branch of the PKK, then I think we should really act against Turkey by saying that an accusation cannot be made in that vein. Because if that's not the case, it's really a really, really bad accusation. If the Kurdish People's Foundation in Rotterdam is not a branch of the PKK, it cannot be that a mother with a child is imprisoned for the reason that she volunteered for that foundation. That's insufferable. I would also like an answer from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. I would ask that, in our strengthened diplomatic relationship with Turkey, which has been going back for more than four centuries, everything be withdrawn, including Mrs Ploumen's suggestions, to ensure that our fellow representative is released as soon as possible, not only for the person Murat and thus for all those who are unjustly detained in Turkey, but also for the protection of democracy in the Netherlands, in Europe and on the edges of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u11	That's a very good story. I am truly pleased that the Chamber is so united. The people's representative must be released. That must finally be said by the Minister. He has to work on that at the highest level. My question concerns travel advice. Many Dutch people, with or without a Turkish or Kurdish background, wonder whether it is safe to travel to Turkey. I share those concerns. The travel advice has, of course, been modified, but I think we have come this far to at least advise those who have been critical of Turkish politics not to go. How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u12	I agree with Mrs Karabulut. If a politician's tweet or retweet is enough to get arrested, to have to wait in a cell to appear in court, then it's not safe to go. If family members of politicians who have tweeted are already not safe, if the fact that you volunteered at an association here in the Netherlands is enough to get arrested, with your child, then you can't say it's safe to travel to Turkey. We have already discussed this in the previous debate. The question thus arises to what extent the travel advice is still up-to-date. So let us put the question of whether there is a need to tighten up the travel advice here once more. If so, when will that be done?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u13	Indeed, when people have made use of freedom of expression and/or have done voluntary work in completely legal associations, the Turkish Government has apparently now taken the step with that friendly bond to tackle people politically. I am glad to hear that the CDA group is also leaning towards the Minister's desire for a negative travel advice. I think it would also be a clear signal to the Turks, unless the Minister is prepared to put our wish list very clearly on the table and ask the Turks to release the Dutch political prisoners and stop these practices.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u14	I hear a number of phrases in Mrs Karabulut's reaction that I have not spoken. Let me say that I fully agree with the tone, but not with exactly all the terms she used. I repeat my question to the Minister as to whether the advice given to Turkey is up to date. On what basis is this being made, is there a need to revise it and, if so, what period will it take?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u15	Thank you, Mr. Van Helvert. I give the floor to Mr Koopmans. He is a member of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Just this morning I spoke to the family of Murat Memis, and that touched me. I know the family's in the public gallery, too. They've been through a lot lately. I spoke to the Turkish ambassador the day before yesterday to ask what's going on. Is there more now? Mr. Memis is accused of terrorism, but isn't he just a political prisoner? And it can't be! At least the Ambassador told me that there was a meeting on 2 July and that it would hopefully be clearer. But this is, of course, extremely worrying. When it comes to terrorism, the VVD is very active, but I think everyone here is extremely active. We want it to be dealt with as hard as we can. That needs to be taken seriously. We want to do everything we can to fight terrorism. But if it is not about terrorism, but simply about giving an opinion, even if that is a completely different opinion than the opinion you have as a government, as a government or as a judge, then we should just be open about it. That is at the heart of democracy, which is at the heart of the rule of law. That's the core of what we're all doing here. So if we are talking about a political prisoner, then that person must be released immediately. That is why I stood at a demonstration organised by the SP this morning and said that Murat should be released. I must say that was a special experience. Mr. Chairman. We have to say this, and I think we should all be very careful in the direction of Turkey, because we should be very careful in the politicisation of the terrorist label. Terrorism is extremely important; we must take this very seriously. Then it can't be that people just because they have a different opinion are suddenly labeled as terrorists. That undermines our fight against the terrorist. In addition, it also undermines the certainty, the trust of especially Turkish Dutch people, who simply want to visit Turkey to visit their family, to visit their friends, or simply go on holiday. And not only Turkish Dutch, but also ordinary Dutch. Then I also think of the family of people who are being treated, possibly because someone has said something in their family. It can't be. This uncertainty among Dutch people, especially among Turkish Dutch people, but also among others, must be removed. It is affected by this apparent politicisation, the political making of the terrorist label. You can't do that. We must do everything in our power to do so. That is why I also have a question for the Minister, in addition to the questions already asked by colleagues, about the other cases. We have already mentioned them all: Ebru Umar; we have a mother with daughter, we have so many things, about which many questions have already been asked. I'd like to join in on that. But I also ask the Minister: what is this apparently Turkish policy of politicising the terrorist label also doing with the safety of Dutch people here? Because, according to the VVD, undermining the meaning of the terrorist label also undermines the idea that we should all fight against the real terrorists. I'd like to ask the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u17	Thank you, Mr. Koopmans. There is another interruption for you from Mrs Ploumen of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u18	Thank you to Mr Koopmans. I am, of course, curious to hear the Minister's reply to his observation that the concept of terrorism is being politicised. I would actually like to ask him the same question I asked Mr Van Helvert. I have made a number of concrete suggestions on the basis of the German commitment. What is Mr Koopmans' position on these suggestions? Could he support them?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u19	I appreciate Mrs Ploumen making those suggestions. I think it is important for the Minister to have all the options, and any idea that Mrs Ploumen has or others to give the Minister more tools is very useful. I think it is very important for the Minister himself to be able to choose which instrument he uses in this extremely sensitive matter, which requires high, sophisticated diplomacy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u20	We'll get that from the Minister. But I would like to point out once again that I did not come up with these suggestions. They simply come from public questions and answers exchanged in the Bundestag. The Germans are also very good diplomats, so Mr Koopmans' reluctance is perhaps something on the cautious side. Because these are suggestions that, let's just say, shouldn't be mysterious.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u21	Perhaps Mrs Ploumen does not understand me willingly. I am grateful to Mrs Ploumen for the suggestions she has made. It doesn't matter if she made them up or copied them from someone else. I'll leave that entirely to her. I think it is a good thing that the Minister has the overview and can choose them all. I would even like to add one more, if I have the opportunity, in the direction of Mrs Ploumen. We have often talked about all forms of mobile development aid, aid going through the European Union to countries such as Turkey. If countries violate human rights, or, for example, arrest people when they are not supposed to, should we not consider giving that support to Turkey instead of to another country? That is an additional argument, an additional instrument. I have heard Mrs Ploumen very critically about this in the past. Is it perhaps Mrs Ploumen, through you, President-in-Office of the Council, that we should also put that instrument on the table?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u22	Mrs Ploumen, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u23	I'd be happy to answer that. I think it would be very good if the Netherlands and the European Union continued to support human rights groups in Turkey that work, with everyone who matters, to strengthen the rule of law. And whether that help is mobile or not is irrelevant. What matters is that it is effective in protecting the citizens of Turkey and the Dutch citizens. That's what I stand for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u24	I am very grateful for the positive answer that Mrs Ploumen has given me here. It is not about human rights aid, of course, because it must be given, but about mobile aid: building roads and that sort of thing. The point is that we are also going to use this instrument to put pressure on countries that refuse to take asylum seekers back or do not do justice to human rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u25	Sorry, Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u26	No, Mrs Ploumen. Let's just leave this to Mr Koopmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u27	Yes, let us leave that last observation to Mr Koopmans. That's all I'd like to say about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u28	Clear, thank you very much. Mr. Koopmans, thank you very much. I call on Mr Van Ojik of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance for his first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would have liked to say that it is not often that the Chamber is so united in its views on what needs to be done. But this little last argument shows that we need to make this somewhat relative. I believe it is quite unique that the Chamber, if I may put it this way, says that what happened here in Turkey with a colleague of ours, as many have already stressed, is simply not possible. To be honest, I also hope that it is also a signal for the father and mother of Murat and his brothers, who are sitting here in the gallery. Mr. Chairman. I see this debate above all as a signal to the Minister. We want him to draw a line and say, "Here and no further." We want him to say that we cannot accept a colleague like Murat Memis being arrested and not leaving the country because of a few retweets. We want him to say: we cannot accept Mrs A. being held with her baby since the beginning of April because of her membership of a Kurdish association. Mr Van Helvert also spoke about this. We in the Netherlands think it is perfectly legitimate and normal and a part of democracy that such an association can carry out its activities, but the Turkish government apparently says: if you have something to do with that, we will throw you in jail with your baby. And then you better hope your trial ends well. My question to the Minister is: has the Dutch Public Prosecutor's Office cooperated in any way with the Turkish Public Prosecutor's Office in collecting evidence on this issue? Perhaps the Minister can rule that out, at least I hope so. Mr. Chairman. Nor can we accept that more than 15 other Dutch people are still stuck in Turkey at the moment and cannot leave the country, as we cannot accept that more than 60,000 Turkish citizens have lost their jobs because of their political views without trial or formal charges up to the present day and that more than 120,000 people have been fired, have lost their jobs and do not get them back. Mr. Chairman. There's nothing against silent diplomacy. It is good that we have the instrument of silent diplomacy at our disposal. But if justice fails, as it really seems in Turkey, then it is not enough, as the Minister says in yesterday's letter, that the Netherlands cannot interfere in that course of justice. If justice is so clearly contrary to universal rights, such as the right to freedom of expression, then it is not enough to say that you have amended the travel advice and that you have said to people: do not go to Turkey, because there is a chance of being arrested. That's not enough. That is why my question to the Minister is: what will the Netherlands do, what will this Minister do to increase the pressure? Mrs Ploumen has just made a number of excellent suggestions. What will happen if the trials against Mr. Memis and Mrs. A. actually begin? Those trials are at the door. What does the Dutch consular assistance look like in concrete terms? When was the limit of quiet diplomacy reached? I do not want to end without emphasising that there is also good news from Turkey. Everyone who follows the news knows how important it is that last weekend in Istanbul the democratic forces have triumphed. That must also be said, even in today's debate. I would like to ask the Minister what possibilities he sees for Dutch support for the further strengthening of pluralist democracy in Turkey.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u30	Thank you. The next speaker is Mr Voordewind of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u31	Mr. Chairman. Murat Memis, a fellow representative from Eindhoven, is yet another Dutchman being held in Turkey for obvious political reasons. That is why we are talking about Turkey again today. Is it clear to the Minister that Memis is being held for political reasons? Can he respond to that? In the minister's previous letter, we read about the woman being held with her baby. The Minister also refers to 77 Dutch registered in Turkish detention. What number is the counter on by now? Is that including all Dutch people who are made impossible to return home? In the letter we also read that in about 10% of these cases there were suspicions of a terrorist nature. In such cases, it is actually for political reasons. Does the Minister know how many cases are involved in which the real reason is a political reason? In other cases with more criminal charges, can these political backgrounds also be mentioned? Of course, the Dutch government tries to assist every Dutchman in a foreign cell, but in the event that people are the victims of the fact that they have expressed their opinion, that is quite true. Then it's not just a matter of consular assistance. Then the Netherlands should demand that they be released and can return to the Netherlands. Does the Minister agree? Has he in the meantime demanded this from the Turkish Government? The Minister says that Turkey regards these people as Turkish citizens and that he cannot do so much with them. If Turkey does not respect the Dutch nationality of our citizens, then that must be all the more reason to defend it. The Netherlands must stand up for all its citizens, including abroad. In the general discussion on Turkey last month, I expressed my slight surprise at the Minister's desire not only to normalise relations with Turkey but also to intensify them. This is important for trade, says the Minister, but I also indicated last time that this trade was not affected at all by the critical and public statements of this government. On the contrary, trade has increased by 22% since March 2017. I would like to give the Minister the following measures to break the deadlock. Mrs Ploumen has also made a number of suggestions. I would also like to know what the Minister thinks of the German threats in terms of sanctions. Is he going to join us? I think that we should tackle this problem primarily at European level. If we do this individually as a smaller country, it will not have much impact. My first question is whether the Minister is prepared to seek coordination in this respect with other Member States which have the same problems. Can't we make a fist together? Apart from whatever fist that becomes, I think it's wise to pull together. The second suggestion is this: is threatening not to issue visas for government officials from Turkey, especially those involved, not also a means that we could use, perhaps jointly with the Germans? If these people are not allowed to return to the Netherlands, what other measures are there against? I am not saying to the Minister that he has to do everything right away, but let us, like the Germans, first threaten to possibly not issue those visas for these government officials from Turkey. I'd like to hear the Minister's response. Finally, in line with the coalition agreement, I ask the Minister whether it would not be good, even in this situation, to help, of course, that the second and third generation should make a choice for one nationality. What's the status of the current government's plan? I'd like to hear his reaction on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u32	Thank you, Mr Voordewind. We're going to see the last speaker on the side of the Chamber. That's Mr. Sjoerdsma of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u33	Mr. Chairman. This month is the third time we have talked about Turkey. That's not because things are going so terribly well in that country. Turkey has detained a Dutch politician on absolutely questionable grounds. I actually wanted to say "an SP politician," but when I heard Mrs Karabulut say that, I thought: it is not a SP politician. He's a Dutch politician. It's our people's representative. He can't leave the country anymore. Today is therefore a moment of political solidarity, of politicians who stand up for politicians who say clearly: Murat Memis. But all the other Dutch political prisoners must also be released. My fellow Members have already thought about this in detail. We agree that the Netherlands must do everything in its power to free these people. For this reason, a large part of this Chamber has previously supported a motion by Mrs Karabulut calling on the Minister to make a greater effort. I ask the Minister what he did as a result of that motion. Today, as a Chamber, we make one sound. That sound is: censorship must not become an export product. You can't and you can't. In the Netherlands, what can be said in the Netherlands can be said. I have no doubt that Dutch diplomats will do everything in their power to assist these people. But I also have to say, with some other colleagues, that unfortunately too little has been achieved. I'm asking this minister if he's doing what he can and if he's doing everything he can. I also ask this because I believe that the Netherlands is not alone in this problem. Germany has been mentioned many times. I would like to join those who have called for this to be a European issue in order to make it clear with a European fist that our citizens must not be politically imprisoned. Finally, some reflection. As a Chamber, we are rightly critical when Dutch people are put in jail without proper charges. We are also right to be critical when journalists are silenced, when freedom of the press and freedom of expression in Turkey are slowly but surely being overturned. But I also want to keep a mirror in this room. Two weeks ago, a majority of these parties in the Chamber voted for the final cessation of EU accession negotiations with Turkey. Negotiations that had already been suspended. Don't get me wrong: D66 is in favour of suspending these negotiations and D66 is against pre-accession aid to Turkey. However, two weeks ago's motions called for the complete cessation of negotiations. That was counterproductive. Stopping negotiations was not a subject of discussion within the European Union. There was no decision. No one was talking about it. So when our minister had to implement these motions in Europe he was alone, there was zero support for this appeal from the Chamber. What did happen was this: anger from the Turkish Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I wonder if that will help the Dutch of Turkish origin. I wonder if that's gonna help this minister's mission to get them out. I also wonder if it will help all the Turks fighting for freedom of speech. I also wonder if it will help the new mayor of Istanbul, who is being praised here. I don't think so. Finally, as a chamber, I do not think we are calling in the desert. This isn't a room where sound just echoes. No. The world listens and words also give rise to reactions. That would also be my call today. Let us not only stand for our principles, as we do now, and fight for good, as we do now, but also take our own words more seriously and weigh better, and choose our moments smarter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u34	Thank you, Mr. Sjoerdsma. There is an interruption by Mr Koopmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u35	I'm shocked. Two weeks ago, this Chamber gave its opinion by a majority on Turkey's membership of the European Union. This Chamber has said by majority that it should not do so. Now Mr Sjoerdsma says, if I have heard him correctly, that the Chamber should not have said that, because the Turkish Ministry of Foreign Affairs is angry. So Mr Sjoerdsma says: we as the House of Representatives cannot give our opinion here, because we must be afraid of Ankara's anger. I am shocked and I hope that Mr Sjoerdsma will take this back now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u36	Well, I don't think Mr Koopmans needs to be shocked. I think that if he thinks about how often his party preaches realistic foreign policy, he should remember that there is every reason to say: we should not do anything with Turkey in the area of accession negotiations, nothing at all. We agree with that. However, you may ask yourself, I say to Mr Koopmans, or if there is nothing in the European Union for decisions to be taken, if there is no support for stopping, then it is smart and sensible to say, at the moment when this Chamber wants Dutch prisoners to be released, as a party like the VVD does, that we should definitely stop those accession negotiations. That is a blow in the air, that is symbolic politics and that does not help Dutch interests.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u37	Mr Sjoerdsma says here I am twice shocked, because he says again that the Dutch House of Representatives should not give its opinion on something that is important to the House of Representatives, because otherwise Ankara will get angry. And what message does Mr Sjoerdsma give to the people here, to the families of Dutch people who are being held in Turkey? So Mr Sjoerdsma says here: you should not say what you want in the Netherlands, because then the Turkish government gets angry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u38	Okay, but now a little sharper towards Mr Koopmans, because he twists my words and he also makes it a caricature. That's his grace, but neither is his party. What Mr Koopmans should think about is this, because it is also his motion, also tabled with the CDA, which is what it is about. He says, "Stop the accession negotiations formally." Tell me: was it ahead in the European Union? Tell me, was there any support? You may find all of this, absolutely, you have nothing to do with anything, you have nothing to do with the evil reaction of Turkey, because I do not, certainly not on this issue, on which the Minister has to speak. But you have to ask yourself whether that opinion was very useful at that time. I think the answer is not only no, I think the answer is that it was probably also counterproductive.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u39	Rounding off, short.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u40	So Mr Sjoerdsma says here: we as the Netherlands, whether we are people's representatives, citizens or House of Representatives, should not actually say what we want or we should choose a moment that fits into the Turkish agenda. I find that shocking.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u41	Yes, I actually hear three times in the questions not only a twist of my words, but also no reflection on what I have actually said. Mr Koopmans does not like that. I would really like to challenge him to think this through, for a party that always claims to be in favour of a realistic foreign policy. I am one of the more fundamental politicians in this Chamber. But choose the moment when you display those principles and do not do so when nothing is going on in Brussels, when European politicians and colleagues in Mr Blok do not want to talk about this. There's no point in that. That is what I would like to say to Mr Koopmans. Perhaps he should also make a small study of how decision-making in the European Union works, so that the Dutch influence can be increased.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u42	Mr President, I am being addressed immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u43	That is certainly true, and that is why you will have the opportunity to respond briefly. But keep it short.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u44	And keep it fair too!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u45	Certainly, and then I address Mr Sjoerdsma to his words. He says: I am a principled politician. That's very nice. What principle is there that you, as the Netherlands, should not say what you want, whether you are a citizen or the House of Representatives, because the agenda of the talks with Turkey does not want that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u46	This point was made.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u47	You can always say what you want, at what time of day, on any day of the month of the year. I'm not against that at all. If the Chamber finds that in a majority, that's a hell of a good thing. Only, the question you have to ask is, why did the Chamber find that at the time? There was no reason for that. That was pure symbolism, because perhaps someone in your party thought: that's good in De Telegraaf. It didn't even make it to De Telegraaf, but it did make it to the Turkish Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u48	Mr Sjoerdsma, there is another interruption by Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u49	I would like to commend Mr Koopmans. The roles seem to be a bit turned around. Mr Koopmans is normally very afraid of pissing off the Turks, but now the roles are the other way around. Now Mr Sjoerdsma says: let's think about what we are doing, because the previous motion did not go well. I do not fully follow the first part of his speech, because he noted that almost the entire Chamber.................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That includes Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u50	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u51	Surely the consideration should not play a role here that this motion could possibly lead to a more severe reaction from the Dutch government towards Turkey, which could possibly upset them? If we are to be guided by this, we have another debate on human rights on Monday, and we can throw that human rights note in the trash, because people will get angry about what we think about human rights. I hope this will not be the new guiding principle of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u52	Mr Voordewind also seems reluctant to hear it. I am in favour of calling on countries in principle when it comes to freedom of the press. I am in favour of calling countries in principle when they turn our citizens into political prisoners. I am in favour of calling in principle for any country that makes a caricature of human rights. My party will always do the same. We will always do that. But what I am opposed to is gratuite motions that do not contribute to that debate. I will not be deterred by a reaction from Turkey. Absolutely not. I never will, and you shouldn't. But you must be aware that what you voted for will not change anything in the real world. It wouldn't have had a chance to change anything in the real world either, because everything was already quiet. There are no talks with Turkey. We want all these funds not to go to Turkey. The consequence is that you may be making the work of the Minister more difficult. That's what I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u53	No, because there was another "but." Mr Sjoerdsma linked the fact that this motion had been adopted here to Turkey's reaction. As far as the first is concerned, I can still follow him, namely that we need to look at the effects of our motions. You can talk about that. We also know that some motions will have no or minimal effect when it comes to changing the situation in Saudi Arabia. But Mr Sjoerdsma said: let's consider that again in the context of Turkey's anger and that that has a negative impact on relations with the Netherlands. If we are going to make that link with everything we advocate when it comes to defending human rights, we are going to slip very quickly. I think Mr Sjoerdsma should distance himself from that link.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u54	I do not think that is necessary, because there is no doubt that D66 is in favour of suspending talks with Turkey and against the pre-accessional fees for Turkey. There's no doubt about that. Nor is there any movement in the European Union to restart these talks. Unfortunately, there is no movement to stop these funds either. Well, that's the negative side. That's what I'm going to have to add. That's too bad, because that would be good. It would be a good leverage. But the question before us, Mr Voordewind, is whether this is wise if there is no decision-making in Brussels and if it is not in Frage what this does with the relationship with Turkey. You, as well as Mr Koopmans, did not actually answer that question. That's too bad, because it's an important question to answer. Why was that particular moment chosen? Why say anything about that now? I wonder if that's wise. I honestly don't think so. That is quite apart from the fact that I think it is an unwise motion at all, but that has nothing to do with the reaction of the Turks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u55	Short, finalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u56	Rounding up. It was the clutch that mattered to me. You might wonder what the effect of the motion is. Mr Sjoerdsma made the link with the fact that the Turks had become angry. There is my big objection and Mr Sjoerdsma does not go into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u57	Let me put it this way. Suppose Mr Voordewind would like to walk with me and say that you may have doubts about the potential effects of that motion and about the result that it will produce. If you think it's gonna be nothing and it's not gonna be him, then you have to ask yourself what greater importance we need to serve at the time. Perhaps that will be the release of Dutch citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u58	We're straying. I would like to return to the Minister's concrete commitment to freeing the political prisoners in Turkey, Dutch citizens. I heard that Mr Sjoerdsma also appreciated the suggestions I made. Thank you for that. I would like to ask him the following. The US Government has also given a number of American citizens freedom, at least they have their freedom back and they can also leave Turkey. Would Mr Sjoerdsma like to ask the Minister whether he would like to contact his American colleague to tell us how the relationship between the US and Turkey has developed in this respect? I think that this would be useful if we were to gather some additional suggestions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u59	I am in favour of everything we can do to get our fellow countrymen free, and we are, of course, talking today about Murat Memis. So this suggestion also makes sense to me. I would not restrict the Minister in any way. The only thing I would like to say is that, of course, the United States has transformed its relationship with Turkey, and let me put it this way, because of their rather heavy use of sanctions, which gave Turkey the feeling of "we can cooperate better, because if we do not, it will have very serious consequences for our relationship with the United States'. I wonder if the consequences will be as great as the Netherlands alone does. That is why I am making this appeal, and that is why I am making this attempt to add something to this minister's instrument box by looking at what we can do at European level. I would also like to keep all the options open.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u60	Mr. Van Helvert also has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u61	I was also a little shocked by Mr Sjoerdsma's input on the point of "when do you say something about Turkey?', But I suggest that we have that debate another time, because I do not think it is the right time to discuss it. This debate is about my colleague, my fellow representative, who is being held in Turkey, who was even imprisoned in a prison, which, by the way, has been paid with EU pre-accessional funds. But I don't think now is the time to discuss that. I suggest that we talk now about how we can put our minister in his power to get him out of prison as soon as possible, but I would like to discuss that another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u62	The latter seems to me to be a good thing, but I thought it was a good time to talk about it because I am a little tired of being patient with quiet diplomacy and behind the scenes. I get that. Then the call for noise, for noise, for clarity, for firm measures grows. I understand that, too. That's what I'm doing. What I am saying here is: I support that sentiment, but then make noise in the right place on the right subject and don't make noise on the subject that it's not about at the time, because that makes it harder to get Murat back to the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u63	That's the assessment of the fraction of D66. That's okay, of course. At the heart of the matter is that we are all deeply concerned about developments in the rule of law, human rights and the massive repression. That's not from yesterday. It's been going on for years. The question of where and when to draw that line can therefore differ, but I think it is obvious that the situation in Turkey needs to improve and that it cannot become a normal friend of ours at the moment either. My question to Mr Sjoerdsma is whether he agrees with me that this relationship should be conditioned and that at the moment there should be a negative travel advice for those who have spoken politically strongly about Turkey.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u64	Mrs Karabulut's first question is whether the relationship should be conditioned. I think that is a very fair question, because I share what she says with her. The situation in Turkey is very worrying, despite the recent victory in Istanbul and the fact that there seems to be still some sort of free elections. In the area of the rule of law, individual freedoms and freedom of the press, the country has fallen enormously in recent years. That is also why accession is, of course, already conditional. In fact, everything has stopped negotiating. But why does money go to Turkey if they do not comply with this condition of justice? That has yet to stop, and that is also the extra conditionality and the conditions that we certainly need to look at. Why is hundreds of millions of European taxpayers' money being sent there? I'm against it. So if Mrs Karabulut says that extra conditions should be imposed on relations with Turkey, I agree with her. Mrs Karabulut's second question is whether there should be a negative travel advice for people who have made statements here. To be perfectly honest, I find that difficult to judge. However, I believe that the travel advice should make it clear that there are great risks for the Dutch of Turkish origin to be held and arrested in Turkey at random and then put in jail without a clear charge. I think that's the minimum. For the rest, I am happy to pass on this question to the Foreign Minister. I think he's better placed to assess whether this applies to all these people as a whole.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u65	Finalizing, Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u66	I am pleased that D66, Mr Sjoerdsma, like all the other parties present here, clearly calls for the release of all political prisoners and action by governments. In this way, we can conclude that this Chamber does not and in no way preclude the possible application of sanctions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u67	Today is a day of political solidarity between Dutch politicians, aimed at our citizens who are being held captive in Turkey. The call is wide and widely shared. That is the call to Turkey. Let us conclude this debate with that. Release the Dutch political prisoners, but also the other political prisoners, as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u68	Thank you, Mr. Sjoerdsma. With your contribution, we have come at the end of the first term of office. The Minister needs a short suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u69	The next item is the debate on the announcement that the chairman of the SP group is being held in Eindhoven in Turkey. We have just completed the first term of office. I shall give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for his answer and for his first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It must be terrible if your husband, son, mother or daughter does not come home because he is stuck in a cell or has an exit ban because he has undertaken activities that are not punishable in the Netherlands, because we attach great importance here to freedom of expression, freedom of the press and all the other important values that we have also laid down in international treaties and when, on that basis, an accusation and possibly also a conviction are being made in Turkey. That also means that I and my people follow all these cases with great attention. The same applies to Mr Memis and to the other cases that we are dealing with, because we are dealing regularly with people from the Netherlands, often with Dutch and Turkish nationality, who are accused there, are being detained or banned, often in connection with activities that are not punishable in the Netherlands; all speakers responded. This may have to do with the Kurdish case, which is about Mr Memis. It can also be about involvement in the Gülenist movement. This also applies, regardless of what you think of it, that you are free in the Netherlands to express your sympathy for these matters and to join the organisations involved. The PKK is a terrorist organisation; so you would also be punishable in the Netherlands. The Chamber, the people involved and their families can therefore expect me and my people to make a full commitment to this. So that's what we're doing. We have only one goal in mind: to achieve effect. This means, therefore, that we are always taking the measures we are taking, the measures we are taking publicly and, above all, the measures we are taking in the form of silent diplomacy, with the ultimate result we want. We are also doing this in close coordination with other countries concerned; some of you asked a question about it. Mr Voordewind specifically mentioned this. Indeed, we have regular consultations, structured consultations, with a whole range of other European countries dealing with similar situations, often also with people of Turkish-European nationality who are detained or who have an exit ban in Turkey. So we are very much in agreement and we are also learning from each other's experiences.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u71	Minister, there's been an interruption by Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u72	We have had a wide-ranging debate with the Minister at various times. Actually, there's one pressing question. I think everyone in this Chamber wants to know the answer to that. That question is: does the Minister think that Murat Memis, who is now of course also a symbol for other Dutch political prisoners, should be free?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u73	I think he should wait for justice at home. I can't say as a minister that a lawsuit can't take place. If I did, I would go beyond the limits of law. I share the concerns about the rule of law in Turkey. The Room knows that. I have also raised this on a regular basis, including personally. This is also an important reason for the position of the Netherlands with regard to Turkey's wish to join the European Union or visa liberalisation: we do not believe that the rule of law should function as it should. But at the time when a Dutch minister would say 'no trial should take place and there should be release', the Dutch minister would do something that we blame other countries very much, namely a political intervention in a court of law. So the plea I made is: let Mr Memis and let others go home pending that trial. In the Netherlands too, it is very common that if there is no concrete danger or very urgent reasons, people at home are waiting for a trial. Get a quick trial, get a fair trial.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u74	I will come back to what the Minister has done and is doing to get Murat home, as he calls it. I want to get back to the first point. When Ebru Umar was apprehended, when Fréderike Geerdink was apprehended, but also in other countries many people were politically imprisoned, all ministers were crystal clear: political prisoners must be released. I believe that the Minister cannot and should not choose the same position as Minister Çavuşoğlu of Turkey who says that this is a legal and not a diplomatic matter. I believe that our Minister should say quite plainly here, just as Prime Minister Rutte did before: Murat Memis and those others must be free; I stand for our democracy and for freedom of expression. That doesn't mean that there can't be a trial. We may, no, ask our minister to do so. So I'd like to invite him to that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u75	I stand for our democracy, freedom of expression and the rule of law. So I also use the same wording used by the previous cabinet in the Umar and Geerdink cases. I have it right here in front of me. On the Umar case, the previous cabinet said: "The Netherlands has been in constant contact with the Turkish authorities in which concerns about this particular case as well as freedom of the press and freedom of expression have been conveyed along the lines as mentioned in our previous letter'. That was a second letter. On the Geerdink case, the then cabinet wrote: "The Turkish authorities have been contacted immediately to express the Dutch concerns about arrest and to point out the principles of freedom of the press in force and to express the expectation that all requirements for a proper process will be respected." The phrase that we are now using is completely in line with the phrase that was used at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u76	At that time, other foreign ministers also made a very clear statement, especially by the Germans... Germany even talked about "legally dubious charges." Because justice is not fair, Human Rights Watch, Amnesty International, everyone can talk about it because we know there are thousands of political prisoners, and because we know that this directly affects our democracy and is about freedom of expression, it is quite clearly stated that Ebru Umar, Fréderike Geerdink and everyone else must be free. That's all I'm asking of our minister here. Not just me, all the parties have spoken this out. It's also written in the motion. There is now a petition that is widely supported in society. I would like to invite the Minister to this for one last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u77	The phrase in the cases Umar and Geerdink was as I just mentioned it. We are following the same line now, and also with full commitment, behind the scenes and where necessary for the scenes. In the German examples referred to, the cases of Demirci and Yucel, a lot has been done behind the scenes, but there has also been an extensive public debate. The enormous length of detentions, they have been in prison for almost a year, is a situation in which I hope not to end up in the matter we are talking about. So I do not know whether referring to these matters will help solve what is now before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u78	Mrs. Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u79	The questions about this case are related to the other case. I would therefore like to quote very briefly from the answers to the questions exchanged in the Bundestag. There is no doubt that I quote from the letter: 'Here we continue the Bundesregierung die unverzügliche Freilassung von Peter Steudtner, anyway (...)' and then it goes on. What we simply do not understand with each other is why the Minister cannot speak out for the release of these people. That's what the Germans did. That didn't mean they didn't get out. In fact, I think this has contributed to a good discussion with the Turkish authorities.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u80	There's two things going on. The first point is that of the rule of law. I cannot imagine that Mrs Ploumen does not understand the balance that if a minister interferes in a court of law, even in a country where we have great concerns about the quality of the rule of law, this will immediately come back as a boomerang in the Dutch face. That is what is happening, because in the discussions that I regularly conduct, it is said: you are asking for the rule of law to be broken. I am well aware that we are very critical of the rule of law, but then there is this specific question about breaking the borders of the rule of law. That has not happened in the Dutch cases either. Mrs Ploumen knows that like no other, because she was on top of it before. On the German cases I mentioned, there has been a lot of public debate, but I have already indicated that both cases have been in prison for a year. It wasn't just an exit ban. To be honest, I sincerely hope that we can avoid this situation. This is an example of sharing experiences.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u81	We all hope that this can be avoided, but in the meantime the Rotterdam woman has been in detention for a few months. But the Minister doesn't want to say that today's Germany wouldn't be constitutional? That seems to go a long way. We simply want to hear from the Minister: these people must be free, because the grounds on which they are established are not legitimate grounds. This can be transferred in all friendship and good relations with Turkey.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u82	Like the previous cabinet, we are choosing the route to indicate that we are committed to freedom of expression, freedom of printing press, and to a fair course of justice, which must be done quickly, that it must be done fairly. Like the previous cabinet, we do not choose to intervene as a politician in an ongoing trial, because this brings with it a lot of negative consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u83	I'll try another way. Is the Minister prepared to go to Ankara in the short term, to talk to his colleague himself and to use all the means possible to ensure that these people are released?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u84	Last week, I spoke extensively to my colleague on this matter. That wasn't the first time. I am prepared to talk to him about it wherever it is necessary, wherever it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u85	The reason why, despite the wishes of a large part of the Chamber, the Minister does not mean that he thinks that Mr Memis should be free is that he does not want to intervene or do not want to intervene in the course of justice in another country. What if, and it seems to me that this is possible, that the course of justice is so weak, or that it is so much to be regarded as contrary to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, or that freedom of expression may be at stake, is the fact that you are not interfering with it as another country, because otherwise they are doing it to us, to maintain it to the extreme? You always come back to that in all these debates. Are there any situations in which he says: now it's getting so gritty, now I'm going to interfere in the course of justice in another country.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u86	That requires precision. I have made it quite clear that the suspicions we are aware of about Mr Memis, of course, are not all that the Turkish authorities may have, but the suspicion is publicly based on facts which would not be punishable in the Netherlands and which should not be punishable under the ECHR, to which Turkey is a party. Before this matter took place, but also now, I have also publicly stated that I have serious concerns at all about the quality of the Turkish rule of law. It is therefore not the case that we are not and were not prepared to comment on this now and in the past. A follow-up step is: do you want to argue that there is no trial at all? That really goes a step further. Nor has the Dutch Government done so to date. And I started not for nothing with my main goal: to make sure that Memis and others can go home in a similar situation. We all know that this kind of situation is happening in a number of countries. So we must always carefully consider whether the way we tackle the matter promotes the homecoming of Memis and others, for example if you are in a situation where such a homecoming would be perceived as a loss of face because you are using such a heavy gun that the reaction will be on the other side: perhaps we would have wanted to let him go home, but if we let him go home now, we will actually send out the signal that we are doing so because of that gun and then we will see more and more of that gun from other countries. If you're going to move into that position.....that responsibility, I think, is pressing heavily on me.....you're bringing home, which is our common goal, just further away from home because you're using too much guns. I will also deal with the whole palette which Mrs Ploumen calls. So the most important consideration is: let us make sure that the people in this situation get home as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u87	So, if I understand correctly, the Minister says that the facts on which Mr Memis is suspected are not punishable in the Netherlands. And he says: we have strong doubts about fair justice in Turkey. He does not want to take the step here to say that Turkey must release Mr Memis immediately. Is that right? Or doesn't he want to take the step of saying "there shouldn't be a trial"? Because those are two different things in themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u88	I think they're the same. If I now, knowing that a trial is coming, would say "regardless of the trial, Mr. Memis must be free," then I would interfere in a process.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u89	If I understand correctly, I have heard the Minister say: we think he should wait for his trial in the Netherlands. Right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u90	Check. Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u91	So the Minister is ready to say out loud here in this Chamber: the Turkish Government must release Mr Memis and let him go to the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u92	That is what I said to my colleague. I have indicated that I have just explained that it is also very common in the Netherlands that, if you are suspected of a crime, you can wait for the trial at home pending the trial, so that you can at least be with your family, do your job and, in the case of Mr Memis, participate in the city council. That's exactly how I transferred it. I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u93	My, our fellow representative, Memis, is being held because he has tweeted and retweeted things in his work as a representative of the people. According to the cabinet, is Mr Memis a political prisoner or a prisoner like all the others in prison?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u94	It's not good to cut scissors when someone's a political prisoner. I can say the following about the suspicion as we know it, and I have done so very clearly. I cannot entirely rule out the fact that there are other facts on the table, because of course I do not have the complete dossier available to the Turkish authorities, but I do know the charge, because it is public. We can all see them. The charge contains facts that are not punishable in the Netherlands. In fact, they are subject to the use of fundamental rights that we cherish. I have also made it quite clear that this should not be done, nor should it be done in a country which is a party to the ECHR. Mr Van Helvert then asked about all other cases. I have already indicated to you that there are people in prison or have an exit ban for suspicion of involvement in the Kurdish case or the PKK. If it is really involved in the PKK, it would also be punishable in the Netherlands. Then you must have seen the evidence and I must have seen a trial, too. As far as involvement in the Gülenist movement is concerned, I have not yet seen any examples of cases that would be punishable in the Netherlands. Of that we would say in the Netherlands: it is an organisation that you can agree with or disagree with, but you can join. So there are many more or less similar things.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u95	But there is only one fellow representative who is currently stuck abroad, and that is my and our colleague Mr Memis. The Minister has just said that he cannot guarantee that this trial will be good because there are serious doubts about the course of justice there. We have a political prisoner who is in prison because he has tweeted a bit in his political work and the cabinet has no confidence in a good course of justice in Turkey. Do these two things not justify a different approach than they have been up to now? It is not just a person who is in prison, which is bad enough, but it is also an attack on the democratic system in the Netherlands. Is the Minister therefore able to take a different approach than now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u96	The main goal is that people can go home. The essential question is, therefore, whether this other approach leads to this. I've just given you two considerations. Point one. The Dutch government would for the first time cross the border from intervening in a court of law. Fortunately, we have also seen cases of acquittal on a regular basis. So we cannot say that justice is never fair. Point two. There are quite a few of these cases, for the Netherlands and for other European countries, where therefore the weighing up of all of us is very heavy, whether the use of increasingly heavy guns leads to the homecoming or the burrowing in. In this case, the next approach applies. If, in response to this, a release or other positive step is taken, then either that loss of face or it leads to even more continuation of heavy artillery from the Netherlands and other European countries. In this consideration I always go back to the question of what really contributes to what we want to achieve: back home.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u97	Short, finalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u98	If we have a fellow representative arrested, condemned and later put in a cell because he did his job as a representative of the people in the Netherlands, then my question is what will happen to the loss of face of democracy in the Netherlands and in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u99	I myself would be very surprised if, as a result of the steps we are taking, someone had to be stuck for a very long time. You can call that loss of face or otherwise, but I always have to consider the risk you run that the result of that step is that someone is stuck longer. It is not for nothing that I have specifically mentioned the two German examples as examples where you really have to ask yourself whether that is the situation you want to see here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u100	I note that the relationship with Turkey has been cited as being friendly, that at the time when Çavuşoğlu, the Turkish minister's colleague here in the Netherlands, a Turkish woman with a six-month-old baby was arrested and she is in prison and the foreign minister of Turkey sees this as a legal matter and our minister does not want to speak politically about it because he thinks that this will make the matter more difficult. But when I list the Minister's information, I see that the number of Dutch political prisoners is only increasing. That's a given, isn't it? Surely it is a fact that Prime Minister Rutte, but also then Foreign Minister Koenders, did speak in favour of the release of Ebru Umar?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u101	And what's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u102	It is a fact that in all other cases, as the Austrian Minister has done and in Germany, it has been argued for the release of political prisoners. The Minister does not explicitly see this as a political problem, although it is, but is involved in the judicial process, as the Turks do. What makes him think that no more people will be arrested and that the people who are now in prison will be released?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u103	Mrs Karabulut goes back to the examples of Mrs Umar and Mrs Geerdink. They were both lucky enough to return home after the government used the texts I just read. That's the same type of lyrics I just used. I also mentioned the examples of the Germans who were stuck in the cell in Turkey, it wasn't even house arrest, and I also indicated that, I think, we all very much hope that we will not have to deal with such a long stay in the cell. So it is indeed the lessons of our own previous experiences and the examples from other countries that lead to the commitment we now have.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u104	One last short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u105	That's not an answer to my question. I have here texts and tweets from the Foreign Minister concerning Ebru Umar. It says: it directly affects our core values, freedom of expression and freedom of the press. He had informed his fellow foreign minister that, despite the course of justice in another country, he deeply regretted the course of events. Minister Rutte had spoken about it in the press. So it was not at all the silent diplomacy that the Minister is now advocating. But my question was another one. How can the Minister convince us that these people will be released by his silent diplomacy, by participating in the judicialisation of the case by the Turks? I note, however, that the Minister does not object to the fact that the Turks are going further and more Dutch political prisoners are being held in Turkey, not to mention all other political prisoners.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u106	The tweet that was just read out, isn't it exactly the line we're using now because of great concerns about freedom of expression and freedom of the press? Mrs Karabulut asked: what makes the stakes the way it is now? The answer to that question is the answer I have just given, because the effort in these cases has fortunately led to the desired return home and we cannot see in all the European cases that we are dealing with here that there has been a rapid return home.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u107	I see that Mrs Karabulut wants to ask another question, but the Minister continues his speech. Many questions have been asked, which the Minister will undoubtedly now address.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u108	Yes. I now come to the specific questions of the various spokesmen. The first was Mrs Karabulut, but I can see that some of her questions have been repeated just in the event of interruption. She also asked how Mr Memis, but also the mother of Rotterdam, were detained. I don't know all the facts in the Turkish file. I know only the things that have been made public and that talk about suspicion of involvement in the Kurdish case. I have indicated that, on the basis of the information we have on this subject, it would not lead to criminality in the Netherlands. That information is most likely derived from expressions on social media. That is also one of the things that we specifically warn about in the travel advice. Then I come straight to Mrs Karabulut's question as to whether the travel advice should be tightened further. It's a very special travel advice. It has long stated that people with a dual nationality, a Turkish-Dutch nationality, may encounter an additional problem in Turkey because they are considered primarily Turkish nationals. This could cause problems, for example in the case of consular assistance. It has already been added before this case started to play that when there are social media expressions that Turkish legislation would not allow, people could get into trouble. That's very special. There aren't many countries where we do that. If there is any reason to tighten up a travel advice, we will do so. That is what we are constantly following. Perhaps I did not fully understand Mrs Karabulut on that point, but I would not say in general that if someone makes use of his freedom of speech, we do not think that person should travel to a country. Then you're gonna sit back with regard to freedom of speech. I do think we should warn, and we are doing so very emphatically here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u109	Mr. Chairman. With your permission, I shall begin with the first part of the answer, because the Minister has tried to answer two questions. Thank you. My question was indeed: how is it that the Rotterdam woman and her baby and Murat were arrested and held hostage? The minister says, "I don't know." I'd like the Minister to find out. Because in both cases they could travel in and out without any problems. In both cases, the cases of which they are accused, namely being active in an association and/or posts retweeting, are already some time ago. The suspicion and the fear is that there are clicking machines, so at some point, possibly with intelligence, I don't know how, there's clicking. Perhaps also because of the tighter policies of the Turks themselves, who have already announced that they believe that their anti-terrorism laws should also apply abroad: Germany, the Netherlands, etc.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u110	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u111	My question is: could the Minister sort this out, or could he explain it further? Because I find this an unsatisfactory and somewhat frightening answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u112	I am telling the truth that I do not have any additional information, but that perhaps additional information will come on the table in the process. I can't judge that. There may be additional information on top of the charges that are public. I would like to promise that, after both trials have taken place, I will return to the question of what information is underlying this and whether I still have the impression that this is a conviction on the basis of matters which are not punishable at all in the Netherlands. So that's what I'm happy to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u113	I don't want there to be any more trials. These processes are not fair; so does the Minister. The accusations and the facts are based on perfectly legal facts in our democracy. What I do want to know and what I want to find out is how the Minister, now that he has the friendly relationship with the Turks, wants to discuss that with his Turkish counterpart at least. How can Dutch citizens be taken out by the Turkish authorities in this way? I assume that the Minister also initially sees his own citizens as Dutch citizens, and I assume that, because that relationship is so open and cited, we can at least discuss these concerns with the Turks. Maybe they can provide some insight into how that works, that Turkish device, where they randomly pick people out, accuse them of terrorism and possibly prosecute them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u114	Mr. Chairman. One part we know and that's why it's in the travel advice. Social media are monitored and monitored. It is not the case that the Dutch Government receives in detail the information of investigation services in a court case, not in this one and not in others. That may be the case if you're dealing with an extradition request, but it's not here. So I don't have any other information. That's why I'm saying I might be able to do that after there's a trial, but not in the meantime.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u115	That's what I'd like to receive after the trial. But I would also like a commitment from the Minister, because I see a doubling of the number of Dutch political prisoners being held hostage in Turkey. People who, for example, are active in association life or in a democratic, totally peaceful way express themselves about the Turks are afraid that there is a mechanism and/or perhaps Turkish services are active in the Netherlands or otherwise. I would like the Minister to discuss this point in general with his Turkish counterpart. Is he willing to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u116	Sure. But more importantly, we've been warning people about it for a long time. I'm not happy to do that, but I do it because it's necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u117	Mr President, that actually brings me to the second point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u118	Shortly, please. I note that you are giving a long introduction on many of the points, so if you would like to come to a quick short question...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u119	All right, Mr. Chairman, I'm gonna make my life better. The Minister warns people, but my question to him is whether, given the sharp increase in the number of Dutch political prisoners, it is not time to say: don't go?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u120	Then I'll get to the other point. Then you'll be crossing a principled border. Then you say: if you use your freedom of speech, you should no longer travel. Mr Van Helvert mentioned loss of face. Normally, I'm quite relaxed about those kinds of terms, but I really wonder if as a country that is a champion of freedom of speech, you should put in a travel advice that, if you use freedom of speech, you should not travel to a particular country. The current wording is a very clear warning. Again, there are very few countries where we do so in this way. It seems very to the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u121	Mrs. Karabulut, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u122	It's gonna be really weird. So the Minister does not want to make it very vocally clear to the Turks: stay away from our freedom of speech; release the people and do not arrest them. He says that's counterproductive. At the same time, he sees that people who use them can be arrested. He can't guarantee that they'll be released soon. I may be busy with people who have been arrested and/or locked up all summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u123	Mrs Karabulut asked me to amend a travel advice that is already very special, in such a way that you actually limit freedom of expression. I don't think that's wise. We obviously disagree on this, but I do not think it is wise to say here together: let us also impose a restriction on freedom of expression on our part.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u124	Of course, the Minister should not turn things around. We are being curtailed in our freedom of expression by the Turkish Government. Knowing that they are going so far as to hold even a representative of the people for that reason, is it not too much to ask to stand up for the Dutch interest and simply to make a negative travel advice?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u125	We really disagree on whether to issue a negative travel advice, referring to the fact that someone is using freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u126	What is actually happening is that Turkey turns its own censorship into an export product and makes it work within the European Union, in the Netherlands, in Germany and in other countries. If you say something that the Turkish Government does not like or if you attend a meeting that the Turkish Government says you should not, then you have big problems if you ever want to go on holiday to Turkey again. That is not a coincidence; it is a policy. On 3 March, the Turkish Minister for the Interior said it very clearly: this is what we are going to do; we are going to put these people in prison in this way. So my question to this minister is: why do we accept the extraterritorial effect of this Turkish legislator? What are we going to do from the European Union to get rid of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u127	I have already said yes to Mrs Karabulut in reply to the question whether I wish to raise this with my colleague. That's what I did, by the way. Then I come back to the main point of which Mr Sjoerdsma and I do not have to convince each other at all. I think that the freedom of expression we know in the Netherlands and everything related to it is incredibly important and good. The fact that Turkey is a party to the European Convention on Human Rights obliges Turkey to do the same. Indeed, there should not be any condemnation of people who make use of freedom of expression. There is no extraterritorial effect in the sense that we cooperate in extradition. We are getting that request, but we are not cooperating on it. We are talking about people who are going to Turkey and who are being detained there, and I very much regret that on grounds on which you would simply keep your freedom in the Netherlands. That is what the Netherlands is talking about. Is that what Europe is talking about? In Europe, we are certainly raising this issue. As Mr Sjoerdsma knows, this is also an important part of the whole discussion with Turkey on visa liberalisation and their desire to become a member of the European Union one day.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u128	Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u129	The fact that we do not cooperate in extradition seems to me natural and more than right, but the Minister will agree with me that this Turkish legislation will, of course, have a chilling effect, a frightening effect on everyone in the Netherlands with Turkish nationality who wants to go to Turkey again. There is a risk that your social media will be viewed and that you will no longer be able to visit your family, can no longer go on holiday and can no longer inspect your property. I would like to ask if this Minister at European level would argue that the Turks should amend their legislation on the basis of which they do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u130	This is in line with the speeches I have always made, both here and in front of Turkey, namely: stick to the European Convention on Human Rights. This doesn't fit in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u131	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u132	Then I come to the question put by Mrs Ploumen. The German example has already been discussed in the event of interruption. Mrs Ploumen mentioned a number of measures. The discussion of the matter at all levels is very intensive. That will continue to happen. We've just had the discussion about pleading for release. The ambassador's summoning is a step further diplomatically, so I am not using it at the moment, just like the threat of sanctions or the trade relationship, because then I come up with what I have just discussed extensively with Mr Van Helvert and Mr Van Ojik. One is that we are in close contact with other European countries. Especially when it comes to trade relations and sanctions, you know my point of view: in this respect, you will always have to act at European level, because in a single market there is no point, if you wish, in doing so as a separate country. Just as much is the point we have just discussed in detail: offer the possibility of a solution without loss of face and without the feeling that, if Turkey now takes a step in the direction we want, they will be prevented from doing so by the consideration that in future they will only be subjected to severe violence. Having the lessons in mind of the previous Dutch examples in which that fortunately ended well, we choose that approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u133	Did you get Mrs Ploumen's entire package?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u134	Mrs Ploumen also drew a comparison with the example from the United States. It is not an acquittal but an end to house arrest. The trial has yet to take place, after 17 months of house arrest. That, too, is an example of which I say: I hope we are not going to talk about such deadlines.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u135	I hope we don't, but if we keep this up, we're gonna be here in 17 months. I have two specific questions. One. This weekend's the G20 summit in Japan. Is the Minister prepared to tell the Chamber that Prime Minister Rutte himself would like to speak with President Erdogan, who is undoubtedly also present, and would like to raise these issues explicitly and explicitly?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u136	I myself have raised this in detail very recently, so I am not convinced that it adds anything. I am not aware of the agendas in detail either. But I myself have interfered in this very recently and I will continue to do so. I want to maintain that route, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u137	Let me be convinced that that can make a difference. So I would like to ask the Minister: now get it into Prime Minister Rutte's talks. In fact, if I were Prime Minister Rutte, I would have scribbled it in the margin myself if it wasn't next to it. What else needs to be done to allow a simple conversation between President Erdogan and our Prime Minister about this? There are just people stuck on land that would be totally unbelievable in the Netherlands as a ground to put someone in jail. It's really a very simple question. Now, I'd like to make a commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u138	I have indicated that I myself have explicitly raised this issue and will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u139	Then I'll change my mind about other methods. We have it as a room, so we can. Let us return briefly to this other way of increasing the pressure on Turkey. Look, Turkey is a mature state with politicians who are good diplomats and who know all the tricks. So I'd say don't be so reluctant to use all those strategies. The Turkish Government itself is doing very well. I have no further judgment on that. So there is also the question: what else should happen before the Minister scales up the efforts and makes it clear that the Dutch Government is serious?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u140	It's about the effect. I have indicated in detail that we had a commitment in the previous cabinet which is very similar to the current commitment and which, fortunately, has led to the desired effect. Furthermore, I have indicated that we are facing a very serious consideration: does escalating, which Mrs Ploumen is asking for, not mean that Mr Memis and others are trapped longer than if we choose the path that has led to results in the past? I really think that's a very serious consideration, and that's what I'm doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u141	We all consider that to be a serious consideration, because that is what this is about, of course. At the same time, I believe, together with a number of colleagues, that the situation is different. I would like to invite the Minister to perhaps reflect a little more generously on our suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u142	With the aim of achieving the desired result, Mrs Ploumen also started to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u143	It's going up and down a little bit. The Minister says he wants to achieve as much effect as possible all the time, without scaling up, because that may not work. We almost tend to say: let the Prime Minister pick up that phone and say: if there is no evidence and he is a political prisoner, then the man has to come back today. But the Minister says that scaling up may be counterproductive. I understand that too, by the way. But can the Minister reassure that Chamber in any other way? Because there is something we feel uncomfortable about: are we actually doing enough? Is there any other way to involve the Chamber in this? Can this be done in a technical briefing, confidentially, so that the Chamber is reassured that we are doing everything and not waiting until we have a fellow representative of ours in prison.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u144	I am willing to give a briefing on how we want to achieve impact in this and other cases. We also often achieve effect. Sometimes it's in the press. The Turkish entry ban, which we were able to put an end to, has recently reached the press. But if it is not put in the press by those involved, I do not feel free to put it in the press myself. But it is certainly so that we should go into it in a closed setting, so thank you for suggesting that we have also been able to end some cases that are not in the publicity.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u145	Thank you. I keep saying there's a difference. For the person in prison, it's the same: whether you're a councilman or a mother of a child, it's both terrible when you're stuck. But the difference is that we live here in a democracy. Turkey says it is a democracy, and we have doubts. Furthermore, there is a fellow representative of the people because he has done something in his work as a representative of the people. That makes it a different situation in a cabinet's activity. That is why we have just agreed, perhaps a good solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u146	We're gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u147	This is a very special debate, many of us have considered it in the first place because there is really no common political division in this Chamber this morning. If Mr Koopmans is going to speak in a microphone of the SP, something special is going on. He said so himself. My question to the Minister is whether he thinks it is conceivable that after this debate he should go back to his ministry and say: nothing has really changed. The Chamber has said that Turkey has crossed a border. We can debate the instruments that we then want to use, but I do not think that one thing is conceivable, and that is that from this afternoon onwards we will continue on the road that we had already gone on. That is my question to the Minister. What is going to change in his approach to this rather unique political situation in this Parliament?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u148	This is a very justified point by Mr Van Ojik. I have already indicated that I have been in regular contact lately, and that I will continue to do so as long as necessary. Today's debate, which is undoubtedly also being followed on the Turkish side, is an additional building block for the talks I am having with the Turks. I would also point out: "You see the very understandable, Chamber-wide concern about what is going on here. It is really in our mutual interest that the outcome we want should come out of this." So that helps.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u149	I think so, too. What would make more sense than to summon the Turkish ambassador and say: "I experienced something special in the Dutch Parliament this morning. How are you going to solve this, Mr. Representative of the Turkish Government?" If there is such a concrete suggestion, the Minister says... He is now saying: this debate as such is a building block that you can work with. But the question is, of course, what else will the Dutch government do as a result of this rather unanimous vote, no, not quite unanimous, unanimous signal from the House of Representatives?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u150	This message will, of course, also come from the Turkish ambassador. Mr Van Ojik himself is a former diplomat, so he knows that the term 'offending' is quite a diplomatic cannon. That's different than sending a message. Of course it's being transferred.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u151	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u152	I was in the process of answering the questions of the spokesmen. I have arrived at Mr Van Helvert. He asked whether membership of or involvement in the Kurdish organisation in Rotterdam, for which the Rotterdam mother should now be present, is a reason to ask a legal question in the Netherlands. There's no such reason. This is simply a matter of freedom of association in the Netherlands. Mr. Koopmans...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u153	Excuse me, Minister. Mr. Van Helvert still has a question about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u154	Then you have a clear dispute with Turkey, don't you? Turkey says in the report on that mother why that mother is in prison. There is also a hint to the Dutch government. Turkey says that the Kurdish People's Foundation I have the name not ready at the moment... is an extension of the PKK. With that Turkey is also ticking on the Netherlands and saying: you need to do something about it. That seems to me to be a reason to agree with the Turks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u155	We are. That's what I reported. We'll do that along two routes. We indicate that this organisation is subject to the freedom of association regardless of what you think of the content or opinions of such organizations. This also applies to other organisations. I have also mentioned the example of Gülen. On the other hand, I have also indicated that we are sometimes asked to extradite people involved in such organisations. We're not cooperating in that. So it's definitely on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u156	It's about to go side by side. On the one hand, we strengthen the diplomatic relationship and we see the economic progress between Turkey and the Netherlands growing. On the other hand, however, the freedom of expression of fellow representatives is being curtailed and we are accused by Turkey of housing terrorist organisations. This is still separate from all the other people they're holding in their country, which we're not happy with, from the raids in Syria and so on, and so on. All the Minister says is, we'll discuss it. In the meantime, everything just goes on. That actually makes me ask the Minister: how far can Turkey go before we really get the fist on the table? Just like Germany says, release those people. Just like Trump, who says, "I'm only coming to the G20, and I'm only talking to you if you release these people."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u157	These are a number of points that have been briefly formulated. I have mentioned the examples of both the United States and Germany, which were very public. In addition, there is very quiet diplomacy. As I said, we are in close contact with them as well. The examples about which there was a lot of publicity are not, in my opinion, examples that we should follow, because the duration was so long and because it was really about imprisonment. Then there is the issue of re-establishing diplomatic relations. I wouldn't be having these conversations if we didn't have diplomatic relations. Mr. Van Helvert knows that there are also a lot of other reasons for having these relations. Think of the fight against terrorism. There is a great deal of cross-border crime between our countries. All these forms of cooperation fall silent or are severely restricted if there are no diplomatic relations. That was the case at the time. For the subject we are discussing today, it is therefore very important that these relations are there, but also for all the other issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u158	Please continue,
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u159	Mr Koopmans asked me to deal specifically with the politicisation of the label "terrorism" and the consequences that this could have for the situation in the Netherlands. That is also a very valid point. That also touches on what Mr Van Helvert just mentioned. Terrorism is a terrible threat. We have to stick together in that. That also works regularly with Turkey. But that also means that the term 'terrorism' is certainly not included if there is no terrorism, but rather the use of freedom of expression or of freedom of association. Nor should internal Turkish debates be exported to the Netherlands and then labeled "terrorism" if this is not the case. I have already dealt with some of Mr Van Ojik's questions in the case of interruption. Mr Van Ojik asked whether the Dutch Public Prosecutor's Office had cooperated in this matter with the Public Prosecutor's Office in Turkey. I don't know, but I'd like to ask you again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u160	I would appreciate that, because I think it is important that we should be able to rule out the fact that the Netherlands cooperates in any way with the Turkish authorities in collecting so-called evidence about activities at a Kurdish association in the Netherlands. I would therefore very much appreciate it if the Minister could find out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u161	I'll check with my colleague. I'll get back to you on that. Mr Van Ojik asked what the consular assistance would look like when the lawsuits begin. Then our embassy and our consulate will be represented at the trial. Mr Van Ojik also asked how the Netherlands is committed to strengthening democracy in Turkey, also looking at the recent election results in Istanbul. As Mr Van Ojik will no doubt remember, the Netherlands had serious doubts with other European countries when the election results in Istanbul were cancelled. We indicated that it was not clear to us why this result would not be valid. It is indeed good to see that elections have taken place again and that the candidate who was most convincing has won there. That is the situation in Istanbul. In addition, through our Human Rights Fund and through the Matra programme, we are committed to supporting organisations active in the field of human rights and democracy in Turkey. Mr Voordewind asked whether these matters would not indicate the need for legislation whereby second- or third-generation immigrant children and grandchildren would opt for one nationality. JenV's colleague is dealing with this legislation. It is part of the coalition agreement, so that will undoubtedly come your way. Mr Voordewind asked for the specific figures. There are currently 90 people of Dutch nationality in detention or with an exit ban in Turkey. Three of the inmates and twenty of the exit bans are charged with terrorism-related activities. Mr Voordewind asked whether visa restrictions could also be applied. Also, you are already in the sphere of sanctions. You'll be high on the escalator ladder. The question is whether, throughout the debate I have just had, it really helps to get people home. So I don't want to bet this one right now. Mr Voordewind and Mr Sjoerdsma specifically asked to make a European issue of what is going on here. I hope to have explained in detail that when it comes to dealing with specific cases of people with EU nationality stuck in Turkey, there has been intensive contact with other European countries for some time now. In addition, we are constantly making bilaterally towards Turkey, but also at EU level, a matter of the enormous importance of freedom of expression and freedom of association. For us, these are really crucial criteria for further steps in cooperation with Turkey. Mr. Chairman. I hope I have answered the questions in the first period.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u162	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u163	I thank the Minister for his commitment to give a confidential briefing to the Chamber to report on what is happening behind the scenes, but I have a question about European coordination. That's where Europe breaks up. We see that the German colleague approaches the situation in Turkey differently from the Dutch Foreign Minister. Can the Minister at the moment say something about how these contacts with Germany are going and why there is such a difference of opinion with regard to this approach? If the Germans threaten to impose sanctions, but we all let it happen, we are not threatening to impose sanctions. I wonder whether that is not a signal to Turkey that our nationals may be treated differently from the Germans.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u164	German efforts, and indeed those of a number of other EU countries, differ in parts towards Turkey. There are major points of agreement. We have just talked about the real desire for progress on democracy and the rule of law. When it comes to commitment in individual cases, I have already indicated that in a large part of the German cases, I should like to discuss this further in the briefing. The public cases are now happening again and again, we cannot necessarily regard it as a success. When it comes to the question of accession negotiations, for example, as a result of the Parliamentary motion, I made a plea on behalf of the Netherlands to bring it to an end in its entirety. That is not supported. That's not entirely surprising, but that's what I've told the Chamber. It is not for me, if countries do not do so themselves, to indicate which ones they support or do not support. I can say that there was very, very little support for it. These are internal political considerations that go very well along the line of "how do you achieve more effect?'. I have also had that debate with you: do you achieve more effect by keeping the possibility open and setting conditions there, or do you achieve more effect that is the choice of the motion... by permanently keeping that door closed and choosing other options? I made the plea, but the vast majority of the other countries do not follow that line.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u165	Mr Voordewind, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u166	Then I would like to ask the Minister whether he would like to make another European effort. Isn't the underlying problem here that Turkey doesn't recognise international law that there could be a dual nationality? This will therefore also be the case in other Member States. Is the Minister prepared to discuss this with other Member States in which this issue of dual nationality also applies and where Turkey merely declares Turkish law to apply, together with at least a coalition of the willing?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u167	That is where I really want to go, because I think Turkey will allow you to give up nationality. That is different from Morocco, where that is not possible. I would just like to return in writing to the precise legal constraints and conditions that Turkey attaches to its nationality.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u168	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u169	It's about the people who still have a double passport.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u170	I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u171	The point is that Turkey does not recognise the rights due to the fact that they come from another country.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u172	I understand that, but that also requires a very careful legal weighting. I really want the opportunity for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u173	The Minister will return to that. The Minister had come to the end of his first term. We are moving on to the second term of office, but Mr Voordewind wants to make a point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u174	A point of order: could we suspend for a moment so that we can agree on any motions?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u175	I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u176	The next item is the report by the chairman of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, held in Eindhoven in Turkey. We have arrived at the second term of office: 1 minute and 20 seconds speaking time. I give the floor to Mrs Karabulut of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u177	Mr. Chairman. In Turkey, nothing is certain anymore. The rule of law no longer exists, it no longer works, it cannot be guaranteed fair justice, thousands of people are detained, journalists are silenced and now Dutch representatives are being held hostage. That's unacceptable. That is why we have asked the Minister to release Murat Memis and all other political prisoners, as the House of Representatives. This has been a difficult debate. The minister says he wants them to come home, and that's what we have to do with it. However, I would like the Minister to take another step and really move. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Dutch political prisoners are detained in Turkey;]] [[calls on the Government not to normalise relations with Turkey until such time as these prisoners are released;]] [[calls on the Government not to engage in "business as usual" in relations with Turkey as long as the prisoners remain in prison;]] [[calls on the Government to summon the Turkish Ambassador for this reason,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Karabulut, Mr Ploumen and Mr Van Ojik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-V-75]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u178	There are a number of things listed with as a highlight the summoning of the ambassador. I said in my speech that I think it would be a good idea to fill the Minister's toolbox as well as possible where we can contribute. I find it more difficult that we should now instruct the Minister to do one thing with this motion, namely to summon the Ambassador. I would like to give the following example. Suppose the Minister is confident, he cannot say everything, and that is precisely why I would like to be informed confidentially, coincidentally, tomorrow he will have a very important discussion with his fellow Foreign Minister. That is a very sensitive conversation and the day before that comes the House of Representatives who says he must summon the ambassador. The Minister then summons the ambassador, Turkey is angry and the Foreign Minister of Turkey says: I am not coming because you have come up with something else. So what have we achieved? So I get the motion and I like her very much and I share the intention. I'd also like to say, Prime Minister, get that phone tomorrow. But the question then is whether we are achieving what we want, because we do not yet know what the Minister has done so far. Isn't that a danger?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u179	Mr Van Helvert sets out exactly the problem. We are very clear: Minister, say that Dutch political prisoners must be free; our fellow people's representative must be free, stand firm for freedom of expression, stand firm for our democracy. The Minister does not speak out for release, because he follows the Turkish reasoning that they should be allowed to go to court. We say: Minister, you are more committed. That's what the minister says he wants her to come home as soon as possible. What the Minister has done and what he intends to do is not clear to me. When you find that there is a doubling of the number of political prisoners from the Netherlands that are detained there, that you have improved the relationship and that the Turks then deal with our citizens in this way, I really have reached the border and a clear political signal has to be given. And, Mr. Van Helvert, I can give you examples of things that were less important and in which ambassadors have been summoned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u180	Mr. Van Helvert, finalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u181	My question would then be, Mr. Van Helvert,
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u182	Mr. Chairman. I think I had the floor. We do not disagree and we want the same thing. But I see now that you are cutting down the Minister's toolbox by saying that you will do this today. While the minister wants the same thing and says, "Listen, I can't say everything here, I'd be happy to inform you in confidence." So he's working on things we don't know right now. I'm sorry about that, too, but there's no other way. Then it may be that we are going to oppose the Minister with your fine motion. I wouldn't want that. I think that is the danger, because I think we want the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u183	So I didn't hear all that from the Minister. We will also hear the Minister's response. I agree with you that there are more resources. I would also like to mention more arguments in my motion. But apart from all this, I really believe that we need to act and that we have every right to have a discussion with the Ambassador on this matter. I'm very curious what the Minister will come back to us with. And if the Minister wants to take a different route, express himself and make a greater commitment, then so do I. Only, that was the unsatisfactory thing, because I have not heard enough of it in this debate. Hence this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u184	Mr. Koopmans has a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u185	I would like to ask Mrs Karabulut to understand the following. I understand that the motion she has read specifically calls for it. Mr Van Helvert also mentioned it. I think it is very important that everyone who follows this is aware that this House is fully united in its call for the release of Mr Memis, and that we all want to do so, I assume the Minister, and will do everything possible to achieve it as soon as possible. So, through you, Mr President, I ask Mrs Karabulut for understanding: we may not support a motion that requires a specific means, precisely because we want to achieve that result. I understand that Mrs Karabulut and I will think differently about that again, but in the spirit of unity, in the spirit of unity we have here, I would like to ask her for the understanding that, despite the differences we have, we find each other at the point where we are all going to fight for that freedom of the Memis.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u186	Sure. I'm really understanding, including your position. I do not have that very often, but I am really very proud that as Dutch representatives of the people we stand before our colleagues and have repeatedly shown that we stand before the political prisoners, whether they are from here or from there. Many of our colleagues have been stuck there for years. I am in no way restricting the behaviour of the VVD or the possibilities of the Minister with this motion. On the contrary, I think I will give him some wings to make political work of the oh so important release of those political prisoners.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u187	Thank you, Mrs Karabulut. I give the floor to Mrs Ploumen of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u188	Mr. Chairman. Last Sunday, people were dancing in the streets of Istanbul. There had been elections and there was an obvious winner. It is also nice that we think this is all very common, but in the Turkish context I would like to remind you that former Prime Minister Yildirim and the counter-candidate immediately acknowledged the loss and that the next day there was a congratulation from President Erdogan to Ekrem Imamoglu, the new mayor of Istanbul. In that spirit, I hope that democracy in Turkey will experience another spring. But we must note that until then, until then, Dutch political prisoners have been detained in Turkey. That's why I have the next motion. In the meantime, I'm going to write down the last sentence of that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Dutch political prisoners are detained in Turkey;]] [[calls on the government to address this in a discussion at the G20 summit in Japan this weekend between President Erdogan and Prime Minister Rutte,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ploumen, Mr Van Ojik and Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-V-76]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u189	Mr President, I would point out that this motion will then have to be put to the vote today or tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u190	Mr Van Helvert of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u191	Mr. Chairman. I must honestly say that I am not very satisfied with the course of this debate. We are trying to present to the Minister all kinds of things in the sense of: can you do this, can you do that, and how can you argue that our fellow representative should be released as soon as possible? We see that the Minister should speak with a little flour in his mouth. So at the moment we are not getting to know exactly what has happened and what the Minister is really going to do, especially as a result of this debate. That is not pleasant because we want a very clear signal. On the other hand, I am also caught up in the idea that if we follow the Minister's reasoning and he knows the most about it compared to all of us as MPs, he might be working on things he can't say about with the aim of getting our colleague out of prison as soon as possible. That means that I will not support very specific, public assignments, such as the ambassador's summons, at the moment, because I think this can be counterproductive. However, I think that as a Chamber we should say 'that is the consensus that we have also expressed today 'that we want our fellow people's representative to be released as soon as possible. That is what we all find, and that is what we need to find unity in, and not in motions that we may not support amongst ourselves. With regard to what we do find, we must support each other, and I will certainly do so myself. I am pleased that the Minister has said that he is prepared to inform the Chamber in confidence of what he has done and what he can do. That is very important, because that indicates that we may be served even further than we currently think in this debate. Unfortunately, it seems that we cannot hear this in public in relation to the topicality and security of our fellow people's representative.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u192	Thank you, Mr. Van Helvert. The next speaker is Mr Koopmans of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u193	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, too, for your pragmatic Presidency, for giving me the time to replace my bad handwriting with my slightly less bad handwriting that I use for filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Mr Murat Memis is being held in Turkey on the basis of apparently politicised accusations of terrorism;]] [[Whereas all political prisoners must be released immediately;]] [[calls on the Government to:]] [[work very intensively on the release of Mr Memis;]] [[to provide intensive information to the Chamber on progress;]] [[to use all necessary diplomatic means to this end,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Koopmans, Mr Van Helvert, Mr Voordewind and Mr Sjoerdsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-V-77]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u194	Thank you, Mr President. In the spirit of overall mutual understanding that dominates us today, I fully understand what the Foreign Minister has said here this morning, namely that if you escalate, you will not know in advance whether that will lead to the desired result. That's right. We shouldn't run away from that. But I would find it unthinkable that after such a debate today in which the Chamber is so united in the plea for the release of Mr Memis and all the other Dutch or non-Dutch Turkish political prisoners, that would not lead to any tightening of the course of this minister. That is why I believe that the motion just tabled by the four coalition parties is just not satisfactory. I understand why you're saying you want to use all possible political means, but the Minister has just argued for an hour that this is exactly what he's doing. That is why, on behalf of my group, I will support Mrs Karabulut's motion on behalf of the ambassador and Mrs Ploumen's motion on the Prime Minister's commitment to the G20. That will not prevent the Minister, I hope, from using other diplomatic means which he considers appropriate in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u195	Thank you, Mr. Van Ojik. I give the floor to Mr Voordewind of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u196	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If one thing is clear from this debate, it is that we as a Chamber, perhaps unlike in other debates, have common action and great concerns about the treatment of political prisoners in Turkey. The question is, of course, that Mr Van Ojik is right about what we are doing and whether we are doing enough. Fortunately, at least the Minister has promised to inform the Chamber confidentially. That is always difficult for a Chamber, because, of course, we cannot do very much with this confidential information. But this does give us an insight into exactly what the Minister is doing and how he makes his decisions. I would therefore like to give him the opportunity to do so. At the same time, I supported Mr Koopmans' motion to encourage the Minister to use all political and diplomatic means to release these people. In order to underline the unity in the Chamber, perhaps even more, I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas Turkey prosecutes the Eindhoven City Council member Murat Memis on political grounds and in violation of freedom of expression, and has imposed an exit ban on him;]] [[expresses the demand that Murat Memis and all other Dutch people who are detained in Turkey on political grounds or who have been given an exit ban are immediately given the opportunity to return to the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Voordewind, Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Van Helvert, Mr Koopmans, Mr Van Ojik, Mr Ploumen and Mr Karabulut.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-V-78]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u197	Mr. Chairman. I therefore hope that this sound will sound very clear from this Chamber towards Turkey, namely that we want all political prisoners to be released. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u198	Thank you, Mr Voordewind. The last speaker is Mr Sjoerdsma of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u199	Mr. Chairman. Murat Memis must be released. That is the message, no the demand, of the entire House of Representatives today. He must be released because censorship must not be an export product. He must be released because freedom of expression is sometimes sacred in the Netherlands. And he must be released because politicians cannot be political prisoners, especially because of their opinions. I would like to see if I can perhaps connect Mrs Karabulut's motion with this appeal, so I would ask this Minister if he is prepared to pass on this message, which we have all put forward in a slightly different way today, to the Turkish Ambassador on behalf of the House of Representatives. Mr. Chairman. The second message this House of Representatives sends is: Minister, use all the tools in the toolbox to get the Dutch people back. That's where the ambassador's summoning comes in. That includes sanctions. That includes conversations up to the highest level. I think it's wise to let that instrument box be as wide as possible. That is why I co-signed Mr Koopmans' motion. Finally. There is, however, some inconvenience in the Chamber about what the Minister is doing. That is why I recommend that the promised briefing should take place as soon as possible, so that all Members of Parliament, including myself, can be told exactly what the Minister has already done and what he will do in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u200	Thank you, Mr. Sjoerdsma. Then we came to the end of the second term on the side of the Chamber. I'm gonna take a look at the minister. He can respond immediately and give his appreciation of the motions filed. I give the floor to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u201	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, Mrs Karabulut's motion, together with Mrs Ploumen and Mr Van Ojik, on item No. 75. This motion calls on the government not to normalise relations with Turkey until prisoners are released, not to engage in business as usual in relations with Turkey as long as these prisoners remain in prison and to summon the Turkish ambassador. I have already indicated that the fact that we have diplomatic relations with Turkey enables me to raise this matter and other issues and that I do not necessarily find the instrument of summoning, which is seen internationally as a serious diplomatic instrument, to help us in the end, namely that Mr Memis and others can go home. That's why I have to discourage this motion. Mrs Ploumen, together with Mr Van Ojik and Mrs Karabulut, tabled a motion on item No. 76, which calls on the government to raise the issue of the release of political prisoners by Prime Minister Rutte to President Erdogan during the G20. I have indicated that I myself have raised this issue with great regularity and will continue to do so as long as it is necessary and that I do not see any added value in this motion, which I therefore also advise against. Then Mr Koopmans and Mr Van Helvert, Mr Voordewind and Mr Sjoerdsma tabled a motion in respect of item No. 77 which calls on the government to work very intensively on the release of Mr Memis, to inform the Chamber intensively on progress and to use all necessary and diplomatic means to this end. With the information, I may have to use the means of confidentiality. But where it is not, of course I will not. With that remark, I would like to leave this motion to the judgement of the Chamber, because this is indeed my full commitment. Mr Voordewind has tabled a motion on item No. 78, which is a judgment of the Chamber. It's not a call to the government, so I'll leave it to the Chamber. I can confirm to Mr Sjoerdsma that the message that has been sent here will also be sent to the Turkish ambassador. Then I hope that I have answered the questions in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u202	Thank you, Minister. Then we have come to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-26-tweedekamer-3.u203	Vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. However, Mrs Ploumen has made the request for her motion on item No. 76 this week. I would ask her to raise this request in the course of the procedure, because the Court will have to give an opinion on it. So the request is for today's report to be made shortly. I shall suspend the meeting, with thanks to the Minister for coming to the Chamber.
