ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-5.u1	The next item is the debate on the Defence budget, legislative proposal 35300-X, adoption of the budget statements of the Ministry of Defence for 2020. I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Defence to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-5.u2	I give the floor to Mr Beukker.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-5.u3	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to begin by congratulating Mrs Kluit and Mr Van Pareren for their wonderful maiden speeches and, in advance, wishing Mrs Nanninga, who will be making her maiden speech, all the best. Mr. Chairman. Good thing we can still provide input to the defense budget from our home. There is a lack of sense of urgency, both in the cabinet and in the Lower House. As you know, I've been up close with the cuts in Defense over the past three decades. Up close, I've seen the catastrophic effect of it. Unfortunately, in this beautiful house we talk about that very minimally, but the state of Defense is downright lousy. Despite a great deal of internal criticism, there has been uncompromising cuts and, as she herself says, the organization has failed through her hooves. It takes years and years and requires a lot of sacrifices, before this can be restored and the Netherlands takes back its responsibility in the field of security. For decades, there has been roofing on staff, equipment, practice, infrastructure, ICT, logistics and so on. Mr President, I shall be brief. Of course, our NATO partners have not escaped the image of our Defence Organisation. We're regularly reminded of it. In 2008, NATO typified our military as "an anorexia patient" and since 2012 the characterization "paria" has been used. A rich country that does not fulfil its obligations and neglects its own defence organization: something of that is found, in all kinds of fora, but also within our society. Also within the Defence Department there are also employees who leave early. Despite reasonable recruitment results, there are almost 8,500 vacancies. And this figure is getting up. It's often not the worst that leaves. A few hundred vacancies are filled per military unit by people who have long been retired. The loyalty of those people to the Defense Department is so great that after 30, 40 years they still want to help their parate colleagues. An unspeakable image has emerged of an organization that has to radiate force, youthful enthusiasm and confidence in itself. One of the austerity measures still continuing with the Defence Department is the RVU fine, which has been designated as a pre-pension scheme by the functional retirement from the Military Civil Service Act under pressure from the austerity measures for several years. But it's not. It happened when people involved had no choice at the time. They had to leave and the organization had to pay, and still has to pay, an annual fine. A feeble objection is not enough for the Forum for Democracy, as Defense now does after the Kerstens motion. The Ministry of Finance makes a budget for Defense free by one hand. That amount sounds very tough. But with the other hand simply takes back the money and the fine. Of course, our allies can see that, too. This has to stop. In fact, this has to be repaired in the forthcoming Spring Note and with retroactive effect. The House of Representatives recently discussed this in the budget debate. The Christmas Movement of the PvdA has been held: again neither meat nor fish, or sense of urgency. My group may therefore table a motion for a resolution on this matter in the second term. As a Chamber, let us be absolutely clear about this and say to ourselves: Defence has respected the law and has now adapted the RVU regime. What remains and what remains for us as a Chamber is to repair this injustice about the interim phase with retroactive effect and to do what we promised in Wales. The restitution of this unjustly levied fine will help the Defence Department in particular to resolve the major personnel problems. There are still many cases to be resolved, such as the new pay house and the corresponding allowance system. From this house, we can help the minister, in this case the stasis, in a relatively simple way. There are still many billions on the shelf of overdue infrastructure maintenance, ICT, combat support and many other areas. Finally, Mr President. This puts an end to a needlessly pumping around of money and making it shady about how much money is actually being spent on Defense. Moreover, the Dutch contribution to his own security and that of his allies is increasing. We are all responsible for this. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-5.u4	Thank you, Mr. Buckle. In this house we speak of "secretary." We're not cutting that short. You can sit down again, Mr. Beefinger. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Secretary of State, will you be able to answer directly the questions asked by Mr Beuker? That's the case. I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-5.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to Mr Beuker, who also speaks from his previous position from a close commitment. I don't think you're the only one in this room who knows an involvement in Defense, whether it's because of a direct job in the past or because of friends or family working for Defense. In addition, you will see people here on a daily basis who will ensure that you can do your job safely here. We do this 24/7, every day of the year, not only in the Netherlands but everywhere in the world. I fully endorse the appreciation you have just expressed for the military. You're right to point out that Defense has to come a long way and that over the last few years, it's been cut down a lot. I think I can speak on behalf of the entire Defence Organization. But we also see that with the start of this cabinet, the first prospects have also emerged, by investing extra money. The Minister and I always say that the 1.5 billion is a good first step, but it is not enough yet. Fortunately, we have been given extra structural money in the Spring paper. We continue to work to ensure that Defense grows to the agreements we have made, especially from the perspective that the organization so needs it, and not because someone else says it. It is about the real estate, so that the army buildings are in order, about the combat suits or the necessary equipment, but also about the renewal of personnel policy. We now have a wage building dating from 1917. A state committee set that up at the time. He said, the older you get, the more expenses you have, so you earn more salary. That no longer fits in with the principles that we now know and what generations want, namely that you are rewarded for what you do and for the responsibilities you have. We are therefore facing a major challenge. Mr. Chairman. I have some doubts about what Mr Beuker has just said. Mr Beuker argued that we should focus on an adaptation of the Wage Tax Act, because applying the RVU tax is a tax measure. I think you spoke with my colleague, the Secretary of State for Finance, this morning. This is about who it applies to. I don't recognize that there's no urgency in the House of Representatives. Not only Mr Kerstens, but also former CDA member Mrs Bruins Slot and Mr Bosman have tabled a motion on the RVU levy. It was just adopted by the Chamber, too. Unfortunately, last week, the tax inspector gave me the decision on objections. It's been rejected. This means that the tax authorities say that this is indeed covered by early retirement. You saw that I didn't object for nothing. I'm going to see what the tax inspector's verdict is and consider what this means. I'm gonna see what follow-up steps are still possible. I recognize what Mr Beuker said, that more is needed for the defense. I have also indicated to you that this cabinet is investing extra and that we are continuing our efforts to ensure that the defense is put in order. But that will go in steps. We cannot do that at once, but we are preparing for the next steps to improve everything that needs to be done within the Defense Department. That's pretty big.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-5.u6	Thank you, Secretary of State. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? Mr. Beefinger, would you like to interrupt? 'Cause you're gonna get a second term, too. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-5.u7	I understand from the Secretary of State that she does agree with the urgency, but that she does not yet go along with the increase in the amount and the possible inclusion in the Spring note of this fine, which should simply be obsolete.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-5.u8	It's not a defense bill. That's what I told you. It's the Pay Tax Act. You just discussed it here in your room. It is a consequence of social affairs legislation. We in the Defence Department have indicated that the legislation on military matters is still from the 1960s. At that time, the legislator indicated that military workers were obliged to retire earlier because of the exercise of their duties. We have also submitted this to the tax inspector, to see what that means. It has now returned something to us and indicates that it does not agree with our reasoning. I've just informed you that I'm going to think about that. What does this mean? What steps can the Department of Defense possibly take? But if you want the legislation to be amended, I would like to call on you to have this discussion together with the colleagues in the Finance and Social Affairs Committee, because that is what the legislation, the RVU tax, is based on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-5.u9	I understand the Secretary of Defense very well, but I think I'm talking to the government here, too. After all, the government is making a spring note and it has all the instruments in place to solve this problem for defence, but also for international standing. Do I hear the Secretary of State say she's gonna make that move, or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-5.u10	What you heard me say is that I am going to reflect on the ruling of the tax inspector. I got it last week, so I need to take a good look at what that means, and I will discuss it first in the Cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-5.u11	Thank you. I shall then be granted the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Beukker.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-5.u12	Thank you, Mr President. The Forum for Democracy is somewhat disappointed. We therefore wish to table a motion on this matter. The President shall: Mr Beuker, Mr Van Pareren, Mr Van Rooijen, Mr Frentrop, Mr Van der Linden, Mr Nanninga, Mr Otten and Mr De Vries proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas:]] [[part of the military personnel has been regularly (forced) functionally discharged for many years in accordance with the Military Civil Service Act;]] [[Defence has been fined for this for several years through the Early Entry Scheme (RVU);]] [[there is a conflict of interest, compliance with the law and punishment for it;]] [[there is a wrong picture of actually spent budget;]] [[This is contrary to the objective of achieving 2% GNP in 2024;]] [[noting that:]] [[conflicting arrangements have been established over several years;]] [[Defence is therefore disproportionate and partly out of debt and is and is still being affected;]] [[now the military personnel have the choice to serve longer;]] [[withdrawal of the RVU fine (and refund) contributes to a consistent, increased and actually available multiannual Defence budget, growing to 2% GDP in 2024;]] [[calls on the Government to withdraw the fine to be paid by the Ministry of Defence under the Early Resignation Scheme (RVU fine) and to recover the fines already paid by the Ministry of Defence to date and to incorporate it into the Spring Note,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-X-B]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-5.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-5.u14	Thank you, Mr. Buckle. Does one of the other Members still wish to speak in the second term? That is not the case. I call the Secretary of State for the second term of office of the Government.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-5.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I do not yet have the motion before me, so I can only base myself on the texts as you have just said. I have just indicated that, in the light of the tax inspector's ruling, we are looking at the rules we now have and whether there are any points of reference. I'm doing it out of my mind, but as I understood the call, I can't support it. So I should discourage the motion. However, I can ask you to hold the motion. I shall then come back to it as a result of the discussion. I got the tax inspector's ruling last week, so I'm gonna ask you to take a look at that and see if there are any leads. And, as I pointed out, if you want to have a broader discussion on this, I would advise you to do so together with the Ministry of Finance and Social Affairs, to see what this means. If the motion is put to the vote, I must advise against it, but I would ask Mr Beuker to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-5.u16	Thank you, Secretary of State. If no one wishes to speak after this second term of office of the government, I shall close the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-5.u17	I come to the conclusion of this budget. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-5.u18	Mr President, I was just able to make a quick speech. My group will be voting in favour of this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-5.u19	At the request of Mr Beuker, I propose that his motion (35300-X, letter B) be retained. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-5.u20	I shall suspend the meeting pending the Minister for Education, Culture and Science and the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media.
