ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-8.u1	The next item is the General Affairs Council. I would like to welcome the Prime Minister. I give Mr Verhoeven... Mr Verhoeven, the two minutes are up. I give the floor to Mr Verhoeven on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-8.u2	Thank you, Mr President. I'm glad we can get together for this motion. We have just had a general discussion on the General Affairs Council, where the Foreign Minister is already on his way. At least he had to leave. On this basis, we would like to table a motion, which is also topical because of the vote in the House of Commons which has just voted to postpone Brexit. The motion of D66 reads as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Brexit deal was voted away for the second time in the House of Commons;]] [[noting that the House of Commons voted in favour of postponement;]] [[believes that if the British request a postponement, they should be granted generous delay;]] [[calls on the Government, when requesting a postponement from the EU-27, to express the view that this request can be accepted as regards the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Verhoeven, Mr Leijten, Mr Van Ojik and Mr Ploumen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-02-1977]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-8.u3	Yes, thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've been having second thoughts, and I've been talking to a number of people about whether we're gonna do it. I would actually think it would be a good idea for us as a parliament to say: listen, dear British, you are in a whole struggle. You can either be in favour of it or against it, but in any case it would be good if we gave the signal that if they change their minds, we would say: you can stay normal too. If that's all you're saying... I didn't think I heard that last sentence in D66's motion, and it was there at first. So that's why I'm still filing my motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[says that the EU's door is always open to the United Kingdom and that the United Kingdom will always be welcome,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Helvert and Van Rooijen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-02-1978]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-8.u4	Mr. Chairman. After the British have said that they no longer want to remain a member of the European Union, the SP has advocated breaking up well and not just talking about the divorce, but also about the new relationship. That's not done. This means, among other things, that we are now at the current impasse. Not only the May deal was voted down, but also that of the European Union. We have already argued in January for the possibility of postponement. That is why I am under a motion from Mr Verhoeven, President. I hope you've noticed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-8.u5	I didn't know what I heard!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-8.u6	No, exactly. So you see, Brexit fraternizes the craziest combinations. I would like to inform the Prime Minister that this delay can also be used to shape the new relationship, which can remove the pain of the backstop. It would be wise to make that decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-8.u7	Thank you, it is also very special to observe this new relationship between Mrs Leijten and Mr Verhoeven. I'll see if the Prime Minister can answer directly. That's the case. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-8.u8	Mr. Chairman. We must be aware of the context in which this discussion is taking place. The context is that Britain has triggered Article 50, that Britain has decided that it wants to leave the Union and that it will indeed come to a conclusion at the end of March, 29 March. In that process, the British have said: listen, we do not want Northern Ireland to remain part of the customs union or the internal market for some time to come. If they had said that, at the same time being part of the United Kingdom, the problem of the hard border in Ireland would have been solved. And we'll talk about that when we talk about the backstop. They could have said: we are prepared to consider in a political statement whether we want to work with the European Union in the form of a customs union in the future. We would not have had this problem for a long time. Maybe we wouldn't even have had it at all, depending on the exact wording. But by saying 'we do not want a hard border in the Irish sea, we do not want to consider future membership of the customs union or a form of a customs union', we have ended up in the situation with the backstop. Unavoidable. Not because Europe was unreasonable, but because the British themselves drew these two red lines in that process. Then there was a search for soothing explanations. We have experience in the Netherlands of trying to take away interpretative concerns that may exist about international treaties. There were two on the table, one on the one hand, and they were all voted off. And now the House of Representatives says: we really want to be chairman, I hear them say that if they ask for a postponement, we will do so. I insist on holding that motion, and I will explain to you why. It is quite conceivable that it is a sensible position for the Netherlands, but at the moment this motion is not feasible. First of all, there is no request from the British for postponement. If that request is to be made, it is only a question of what character it will have. Is that a delay request? The British say: we're almost out, we need a little more time, a few weeks or a month. So it's a technical extension. Yeah, then we'll all say, "Fine, we were out." If this extension is meant to continue talking about how we solve the problems, without even starting from the United Kingdom, what are we going to do? Then we're gonna go back to weeks, talk for months. It is now important that we, the European Union, keep the 27 shoulder to shoulder pressure on that process. The adoption of such a motion removes that pressure and is therefore not feasible. The motion is a positive signal to the British that I interpret so much that we say to the British: if you come in a direction for what you do want and then ask for a delay, then the Netherlands will be prepared to give it to the whole of Europe. But then it's a combination of a request from the British to postpone with the beginning of a direction they're thinking about. For now do not hold the pressure on that British Parliament, Madam President, I say to all Members of Parliament... By saying "whatever you ask for delay, you get it anyway" makes it very easy. It's important now that the British know it's not that easy. We can't get away with asking again a few months to continue talking about a backstop, where the Kurieren am Symptom is. You can't fix this like this. Moreover, for another reason, it would not be wise for the motion to be put to the vote. In England there is still a third meaningful vote. What would Brexiteers in England say who want out? If the Dutch Parliament says 'we are prepared to postpone', how are they going to vote at a third meaningful vote if there is not the pressure for a third meaningful vote to'reject', so rejecting the package that lies there automatically means that Europe is prepared to postpone if there is also a direction to which we want to go? So let's keep the EU-27 on the same page. Let us avoid that the Dutch Parliament is the first to break that joint stance and adopt a motion that I cannot carry out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-8.u9	We're holding a VAO here. That means that the debate has actually already taken place. I hear Mr Verhoeven saying 'with the Foreign Minister'. That is true, but the debate will not be repeated with the Prime Minister. But that applies both to the Prime Minister and to the MPs. So there can't be on the motion either...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-8.u10	My advice, Chairman, very briefly. Then let me put it to his VAOs. My advice is that I understand the motion. It is probably a good motion under all kinds of circumstances, but my advice is: keep it on now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-8.u11	Mr Verhoeven is the first signatory.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-8.u12	Mr. Chairman. We discussed this situation in detail this morning. All arguments have been exchanged. I told the Foreign Minister that there have been all kinds of red lines, all kinds of deadlines and all kinds of dramas. It has not led to what we want, namely the rejection of the possibility of a no deal. The British have now done so themselves. So the no-deal rejection is here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-8.u13	But then you do not have to summarize the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-8.u14	The question is, what do we do now? D66 says: just give the delay that is necessary to come to a calm consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-8.u15	Okay, so you're not holding the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-8.u16	We're just gonna put the motion to the vote, and we're not gonna arrest her.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-8.u17	That's your right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-8.u18	I've heard the Prime Minister, but I don't agree with his vision. We just need to give the British the space to come to their senses.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-8.u19	Thank you. That's your right. I'm going to see Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-8.u20	In fact, I would like to say that you can see here that the Brexit poker that is played in the United Kingdom is also played under the EU-27. Let someone be the wisest, and I'd be proud if that's our parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-8.u21	Okay, I think everything changed. But there was a second motion. You're not done, Prime Minister. Mr Van Helvert has also tabled a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-8.u22	Yeah, I think it's a statement of fact that they can decide to stay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-8.u23	Thank you. Then we have come to the end of this VAO.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-14-tweedekamer-8.u24	I will see how long there is a need for a suspension before we vote on this. There is a need for a short suspension, because there are also MPs who have to come from other parts of the building. Then I'll suspend the meeting for five minutes.
