ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u1	The next item is the Collector's Act Brexit, Roompiece 35084. I would like to welcome everyone, including the people in the public gallery and the Foreign Minister. I give the floor to Mr Verhoeven on behalf of D66 as the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u2	Thank you, Mr President. We discussed it extensively yesterday, but I keep repeating it: the Brexit saddens me and my party. At a time when, for a stable and secure future, we need more cooperation, including at European level, a Member State chooses to leave the Union, to go further on its own and to work less together. I find that very disappointing. The British belong to us, to the European Union. As far as D66 is concerned, the British simply remain welcome in the European Union, if at some point they decide not to let the Brexit continue; I cannot say that often enough. Yesterday we in the Chamber talked about the way the Netherlands prepares for the practical side. In that debate, too, we discussed the situation in the British Parliament, the House of Commons. In fact, it was widely noted that the chance is simply serious that the British will eventually stay in it. If this is done in one way or another, it will be a very desirable development as far as D66 is concerned. I have said before that since the British Parliament decapitated the king in 1649 the British were no longer as confused as they are today. The deal concluded by Mr Barnier on behalf of the European Union and Mrs May was voted down by an overwhelming majority last week. Prime Minister May then launched her plan B, but she's actually just holding on to her deal. She actually gambles that she will be given the space of her own parliament to speak with the European Union and that, if the pressure continues, her parliament will still support her deal. That's a risky scenario. I may say that, but I am not going to use this time to criticize May, because she is doing her utmost to clean up the mess of a lot of others. At the same time, those who are at present its greatest critics in parliament are those who have no idea how to do it. Mr. Chairman. In the meantime, as the Netherlands, we are talking about how we prepare ourselves for all the scenarios that are possible. So we also have to prepare for the worst scenario, a so-called no-dealbrexit, so a Brexit without any appointments on 29 March. On the basis of what we can see, the Netherlands seems to be well prepared; we discussed this extensively yesterday and I said this at the time. All departments have worked hard to organise the different parts in a good way. The law we are discussing today is part of that preparation and is a collectible law. It is a law based on an inventory, based on the question of what we can all run into if there is no deal, if there are no agreements and if we have to fall back on regulations to settle things that fall into a vacuum. The question is: what legislation should be amended in the case of UK exit? It's also a set-up law. In the case of a no deal, legal bases must be created to enable action to be taken. We do not yet know what measures these could be. That makes this law virtual, you might say. So we don't know if it's gonna happen. So we're setting up the law in case it's necessary to act. There is more and more clarity about the no-deal planning of the cabinet. Yesterday we talked about this with Economic Affairs and Finance. The Ministry of Agriculture is also closely involved. It remains a unique situation that nobody knows exactly how it will work out. So this law is basically about the unknown unknowns. You don't know what's gonna happen. You have to do something. You always need laws to regulate things in this country. There is now, as it were, an opportunity to take steps in that direction. I understand this law. I understand it takes a law to do this. I think it makes sense for the cabinet to say: it is such a unique situation; we must be able to do something. At the same time, there has been a great deal of criticism of how this law could jeopardise the constitutional principles of our democracy. There's been a lot of talk about that. There have been professors in the Chamber. There's been a debate. Twelve of the thirteen political groups in the Chamber have put questions to the Minister. The Minister has amended the law twice. The primacy of the legislator must never be such as to put Parliament out of play. There must be a balance between Parliament, which controls, and the government, which can act decisively during a major Brexit. That is a very complex balance and we need to find that balance today. In that light, I appreciate the fact that the Minister has already amended his law, especially in relation to that infamous Article X, which contained all these special powers, twice to limit all the far-reaching powers that this law gives to the government. The Minister has made changes which will give Parliament more say. It is also subject to stricter conditions. I think that's a good move. But it was not enough as far as D66 was concerned, and that is why today we are tabling two amendments with Mr Omtzigt of the CDA to limit the government's authorisation to a little bit more and to ensure a balance, a balance, between acting and anticipating on the one hand and being able to control on the other hand. The first amendment increases the involvement of both Chambers. In any case, a ministerial arrangement drawn up by the Cabinet should be sent to Parliament within 24 hours. We also want a trap axe arrangement. This means that a normal parliamentary route must be organized ten weeks after the ministerial arrangement has been introduced, after it has been settled through a ministerial arrangement, so that the Chamber can still do it through a normal chamber procedure. According to this amendment, therefore, the ministerial arrangement will expire after 10 weeks. The second amendment simply says that this law can be used not for a year but for a six-month period, because after a six-month period it really has to be clear which unknown unknowns came to us, so that we know what to do. So for a year we think this law is too long; it must be six months. On the basis of these two amendments, D66 thinks it has balanced the law and we could support it. But these two amendments must be supported.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u3	The position of the Second Chamber and the First Chamber, of the States-General, is constitutional that they are co-legislator and controller of power. Then a proposal to rule by decree, in any situation, is out of proportion. We cannot know what will happen tomorrow, but politics must act. Just that Brexit without appointments we see coming. There would have been an enorme preparation within the government, but it has produced five parts for this law, from driving licences to patents for semiconductors. If that's it, you don't need Article X. I have seen that D66 also struggles with it, with the rule by decree and the inaction of the controlling and legislative power that we have constitutionally. What if those two amendments that you have tabled together with Mr Omtzigt are not adopted? Then you vote against the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u4	I always find it difficult to speak in as-then reasoning. If, in this kind of legislation, with this kind of power for the government, you think about balancing this law, after steps have already been taken, and if you submit two amendments to ensure that this law is even more balanced than it is now, then those amendments weigh very heavily. I am not going to say in black and white whether I am voting in favour or against. But I have tabled two amendments together with Mr Omtzigt to bring this law into balance. I think it'll be in balance. Those two amendments are necessary for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u5	D66 and the CDA together have no majority. If in the vote only the hands of D66 and the CDA that its 38 seats are going up, then rule by decree, as stated in Article X, is simply possible. That is quite apart from the fundamental point that the government is self-appointed and asking the parliament to give away its own power. I will come back to that in my own term. But then that Article X, which you find out is out of balance. Do you vote against the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u6	I think it's an intriguing question. I find it intriguing, because I expect Mrs Leijten too to support our amendment. Mrs Leijten says: I think this law goes so far and I think it governs by decree. I get that criticism. I think that's what we're struggling with. Then I think Mrs Leijten should say: gosh, I should support any improvement in the law towards my own position. Furthermore, I do not think it is wise to anticipate voting relations. We shall vote as we vote. It will be a serious discussion in our group if these two D66 and CDA amendments fail.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u7	Mrs. Leijten, you may respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u8	Mr Verhoeven, I think, is well aware that I made the proposal to simply delete this article from the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u9	Sure, I'm aware of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u10	The Brexit is being seriously abused here in order to disable the constitutional functions of this Chamber. And we'll have to say, "Oh, go on, great!"? In the next situation, in the event of an economic crisis, or perhaps something happens in society which is unforeseen and which we must act on immediately, the government will say: well, the Chamber is fine with that; it then accepted it at the Brexit, then we can now break that parliamentary power again; so I am going for the most far-reaching proposal. But now I hear that Mr Verhoeven of D66 is playing a bit of chess: oh, Mrs Leijten of the SP will vote in favour and then the rest will do the same and then she will make it. But the scenario in which we do not support it because we are going for Article X, and that does not make it, and all those amendments that have been tabled do not make it and Article X simply stays in place, means that he has to state whether he will vote in favour or against. He's been very bright in the media. He has been able to say on television that it is not allowed, but you must also say here that you vote against if Article X remains unchanged.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u11	You have made your point, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u12	I would actually like to say to Mrs Leijten: I have nothing to do with it. But I take Mrs Leijten very seriously and her input as well, and I try to go to the content through the tone of her input. And then all I hear is that Mrs Leijten is on one side of the spectrum and Mr Foreign Minister on the other side of the spectrum. There are a number of parties who have made proposals. My proposal is closer to what you want than the Minister's proposal. So I leave to you what you vote for my amendment. And then the second. I shall then conclude with this reply, Mr President. Mrs Leijten's reasoning is a classic misconception. It has the following statement: if the Chamber offers the Cabinet a certain speed of action in this unique case of the Brexit, it will also be used at all other times; we will therefore be completely out of the question and D66 will agree to that. Those are three assumptions in one misconception that all three do not add up and which I cast far from me. So, no, this is not about bigger things than playing in this case: the driving licences, the patents and the other things. We're looking very closely at the position of the Chamber. We have tabled two amendments. In doing so, we are contributing to the position of the Chamber in this debate and I am confident that these amendments will succeed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u13	Then I really want to go to Mr Van Ojik or Mr Van Raan, because this point has, I think, been sufficiently exchanged.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u14	If you maintain Article X and allow the government to skip the constitutional tasks we have, if you give that away, it will certainly have precedent. It's unprecedented; it hasn't happened before. Not at the nationalisation of ABN, not at the situation in which we dealt with our own risk within one day. The Chamber may meet on Saturday in emergency situations. No problem at all. And then you'll see that we all choose the national interest. But taking out the Constitution because the Brexit is coming...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u15	You made that clear, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u16	...that's really not necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u17	And that is why we have tabled amendments that ensure that there is a balance between the power of action needed in this unique situation on the one hand, and the control by Parliament, always through the Chamber, through a veil, in an AMvB or through a law on the other. That is the reason for our amendments. That is why I would like to say to Mrs Leijten and to all the other Members of the House: I hope that they will support these amendments so that the virtual situation that Mrs Leijten has outlined will not have to take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u18	Mr Verhoeven does not yet want to tell Mrs Leijten how he will vote if his amendments are not adopted. But he did say in his own term: if these two amendments are adopted, we will vote in favour of the law. That's what he said, literally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u19	That's right!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u20	Well, you don't usually say that when you vote for the law when they don't, right? When I heard him say that, I thought, "Oh, that means, if they don't get hired..." You wouldn't say that if you didn't? Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u21	I think this is a very understandable question from Mr. Van Ojik. Only, there's a certain space between doing something when something does happen what you want to do and not doing something when something doesn't happen what you want to do. I've been here for eight years and a number of learning moments have stayed with me. One of those learning moments is that sometimes you are in a situation where you have to work hard to reach a certain compromise. You do your best to do that, and then you should not be too sure about the way in which you vote if that compromise is not reached. I learned that lesson. That is why I will not be able and will not be able to give a concrete answer to anyone who is asking me how I am going to vote on Tuesday, depending on the amendments, also because my group will still be talking to me about them. But Mr. Van Ojik has listened carefully, and Mrs. Leijten isn't crazy either. I consider these two amendments to be a very important addition.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u22	Is that a compliment to Mrs Leijten?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u23	Yes, for my part, that is absolutely a generous compliment to her, Mr President! But I'm going back to Mr. Van Ojik, because we were there. I think he listened very carefully. In any case, these two amendments are a very important addition to the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u24	Also on behalf of Mrs Leijten: thank you for the compliments. She's not crazy and I listened very carefully, so our day can't be broken anymore!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u25	You're both doing well!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u26	Thank you, thank you! But Mr Verhoeven does not say for nothing: 'I understand that question'. Because normally when you say "if you do, then I do," it doesn't mean "but if you don't, I do." That's not the way it's normal. So I thought I heard some kind of political signal in what Mr Verhoeven said. Was that supposed to happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u27	Although I sometimes say things unintentionally, and certainly in debates on European matters, it is generally the case that when you table an amendment... That applies to all the groups here in the Chamber, and that is also the idea of an amendment, because, as I say to the people at home, an amendment is simply an addition to a law. That amendment makes that law better in your eyes. So if you put in an amendment and that amendment makes it, then it makes sense for you to support the law as well. That makes sense, otherwise you will not table an amendment. You always have a conversation about that, but basically an amendment, if adopted, is a reason... Okay, Mr. Van Ojik, I'd like to ask you, have you ever experienced...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u28	No, Mr. Van Ojik will be next!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u29	... that an amendment of yours was supported and that you then voted against the law? I don't think that ever happens. If all your amendments to a law are supported, then you generally support that law. It's not that special. We can make a mathematical analysis of the House of Representatives very nicely, but that is not necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u30	No, that's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u31	Mr Van Ojik knows that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u32	Well, let me begin with a compliment: Mr Verhoeven is not crazy either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u33	How do you even know that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u34	My question concerns the amendment to item No. 13, because this is about the fact that the fall-axe clause does not go into effect when the United Kingdom is treated equally with the EU. Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u35	Yeah, I think you got that right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u36	Then I'm gonna ask for some time, because it's a complicated subject. Let's take the example of "the chicken." Suppose there's an emergency around chickens. Article X, the amendment to item No. 13, which says that we treat the United Kingdom as part of the EU as regards chickens and chicken imports to the Netherlands. That could be in an emergency. Well, then that axing clause doesn't apply. An arrangement is being made that says: in the case of chicken imports from England to the Netherlands, we treat the United Kingdom as part of the EU. I get that. There could be an emergency. But what happens at a time when after a year of taking over, there is no end to the type of scheme that changes the product "chicken" in England so that it would not normally be imported under the EU regime? That's possible, isn't it? Or if, on the contrary, the EU regime becomes stricter, so that the chicken that is still under the EU rule in England should no longer be imported? In other words, with the amendment to item No. 13 may over time create a situation in which the Netherlands still treats the United Kingdom in part as an EU Member State, while the product or service no longer justifies it. You can't predict that. Then you get very strange situations, both from the United Kingdom and the Netherlands as well as in the third relationship, namely the Dutch part in relation to the other parts of the internal market.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u37	And now the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u38	Well, you can't foresee that with Article X. So in other words, that only creates more...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u39	This is a good example. It shows that chicken is really the most versatile piece of meat, because this makes it even more complicated than it already is. I think Mr Van Raan is right in his analysis. If, within this amendment, we take advantage of the possibility of seeing the United Kingdom as an EU member and therefore do not use our ten-week trap axe, something will indeed arise which, after a certain period, will lead to a situation that we did not really want. That is actually what Mr Van Raan is describing. I have to say that I think this is a valid point, but I have to dive in here, because this is very hypothetical. I think I need to come back to this point in second place, because I can't do that right now. But I do understand Mr Van Raan's pain. I would like to take a look at how, in our amendment, we should or should not respond to this where it is necessary, but I understand his hypothetical case. If it's okay...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u40	You'll come back to it; that's what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u41	... I'll come back to it in second term, because this is really very complex.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u42	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u43	It is about starting something that can be done under our amendment, but then it leads to a situation that we say afterwards that we would not have wanted, because something has changed in the situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u44	Good. You'll get back to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u45	Then I have a few more questions for the cabinet. I have a question about Article X. We have already asked once whether this will also apply when the exit agreement is ratified and there will therefore be a transitional period. At that time, the Minister said: yes, even then Article X is necessary when urgent measures are taken at EU level which require immediate implementation in the Member States. But when the exit agreement regulates the Brexit, we have a transitional period of one and a half years, in which everything remains the same. Then it seems to me that there will be no EU legislation on the Brexit Day that needs to be implemented as a matter of urgency. Then why is such a broad Article X clause needed? This therefore concerns a particular situation, which sheds a different light on Article X than a different situation. I'd like to hear from the Minister how he sees it. Finally, I have questions about the position of citizens. The law does not guarantee Dutch people in the United Kingdom. They depend on the decision-making of the May administration. D66 has often said that we do not want them to be the victim of the Brexit. They're still in great uncertainty about their rights. I have been advocating this for months, and I am doing so again today, once again, that this defined group of people will benefit from an exception in the form of a double nationality, but the Minister said yesterday that he does not see any reason to do so now. I also read that Article 7 of this law, on social security, provides scope for so-called reciprocity. The use of that article, which allows the Netherlands to continue to receive benefits and supplements in the United Kingdom, is made subject after a no-dealbrexit to the United Kingdom's willingness to do the same. For my party it is therefore unclear whether the government will make use of the possibility provided for in Article 7, so that the Dutch can continue to receive their benefits in the United Kingdom, or whether it will wait for the actions of the United Kingdom before deciding on that social security. This situation, which is left in the middle, naturally creates uncertainty for the Dutch in the United Kingdom. So I would like to hear from the Minister what the government's intention is on this point. Can the Minister undertake to use the possibilities in Article 7 and, if so, when? The same is true of Articles 8 and 9, concerning the reimbursement of care to the Dutch who live in the United Kingdom but receive care outside the United Kingdom. Can the Minister clarify whether, as he creates this basis himself, he will actually arrange this for the Dutch in the United Kingdom? Can he give them that assurance? So far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u46	Thank you, Mr Verhoeven. I now give the floor to Mrs Leijten on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u47	Mr. Chairman. The British have chosen not to go further, not to remain a member of the European Union. For two years now, it's been uncertain how this is gonna work out. Yesterday we had a major debate in committee on the Brexit. There I have called it the failure of political leaders, both of the United Kingdom and of the European Union, that there is not simply an orderly separation. It does not look like much in the House of Commons, but the forced unity of the remaining countries of the European Union, which have also been engaged in negotiations, has led to the situation that we are now looking at a possible Brexit without agreement. I would simply like to know from the Minister whether he can promise us that the Dutch position within those 27 European countries means that we will definitely support a postponement of the date to prevent a Brexit without agreement. He did not promise that yesterday in the debate, but I think there is now a chance to ask again. Can he promise us that we will not play a big game when it comes to the importance of the economy and Irish peace on the island? No one wants a Brexit without a deal. The consequences will be enormous, but precisely because of the political failure of these European leaders that will probably be the outcome. And then we have the problems on the island of Ireland right away. Then we will have all sorts of emergency measures in our country. We can just turn that away. Politics is sometimes doing something you didn't want to do in advance. Sometimes, in the public interest, you have to take a step. That's really my call today to this minister. Let that be the Dutch position. We know that we are important and we know that we trade a lot with the United Kingdom. We have already heard these sounds from Heads of State or Government of other European countries, who have spoken in turn or not. The Prime Minister said in this Parliament that Macron had been inflammatory with his rejection at the informal summit in Salzburg. Now it is time to stand up in the interests of both the United Kingdom and European countries to ensure that there is no Brexit without agreements. I'd like that commitment. Mr. Chairman. Today we are going to deal with a law that can be considered a harvest of a state-wide analysis and inventory. All the departments have opened up loads and looked at all kinds of laws. Officials came together with the question: what should we arrange in the event of such a Brexit without any appointments? And then you come up: admission of driving licences, patents for semiconductors, regulations on gas and the regulation of social security, benefits and healthcare payments, in the third country, the United Kingdom. The latter is fine, and we have to take care of it. Furthermore, it concerns the admission of companies. It's a bit of a mess. The Council of State said: "The present proposal raises the question of whether and to what extent a coherent, coordinated approach can be used; the approach adopted does not demonstrate a systematic analysis of the foreseeable situations and the policies to be taken into account." That's pretty big for the Council of State. He actually says: we cannot judge whether the measures in this law are sufficient and justified in their coherence. Couldn't you have just done those licenses through IenW? The same goes for the other things. Now Europe's spokesmen have to judge all kinds of specialties. That's okay, that's our job, but the question is whether this law is justified. Prior to the plenary discussion of a legislative proposal, there is always a written discussion. During that written procedure, we asked for those inventories to be made available to us. We're looking forward to that. I didn't get it! I said last week, supported by the rest of the Chamber: I want them before the debate. I didn't get it! The Minister says: we have it in order; we have analyzed everything. But he can't give us that data. That's weird, isn't it? We have had a state of affairs letter with possible insights from different departments, but that was different from what we asked. Both in the written procedure and last week, we asked for something else. We just wanted those inventories. Yesterday I spoke to the Minister about the fact that I was surprised that he indicated in that stand-by letter that it was not until September this year that an inventory was made of the disasters. Last November, the Chamber asked the government to prepare itself, also because we had good rapporteurs, who already had the feeling: even if we do not want to, this might end with a big clash, and then there will be a Brexit without appointments. So we said, Dutch government, get ready for that. That's a promise. In the presentation of the Millions note, there is a great deal: we have reserved money for the Brexit; we are all building up the supervision of animal transport and customs supervision. But it wasn't until September that the calamity inventory started. So I can imagine you getting such a mess of laws. Then I can also imagine you need Article X. It was just about Article X. Unforeseen circumstances could occur and therefore the government should be able to act directly without parliamentary control, without parliamentary process. I really do not think that this is a justification for the erosion of the Constitution and for the decommissioning of the position of the elected representatives of the people. For that is us; that is not this minister who has been appointed. We have the electorate's mandate. That is why I have the amendment to item No. I'm thinking about that "unforeseen." It's such a beautiful word. Mr Verhoeven also played a bit with it: 'unforeseen', 'unforeseen'. That would explain why you have to take such a big step with regard to the power that a government has to regulate something by decree. When care homes were closed down and severe cuts were made, there were several MPs here who said: it is to be expected that the elderly will have to stay at home for a long time, that this will lead to unsafe situations and loneliness, that carers will perish. But then it was politically swept away: it wasn't planned at all; it wouldn't happen at all. The political choice was made. And now a lot of people say: it is unexpected that elderly people stay in the hospital for too long because they can't go home and can't go back to those closed care homes. I would like to mention another political decision, because we are dealing here with how we organise our society, and that requires political debate. The student loan system would lead to a lot of uncertainty, especially with parents. They wonder: can I pay for my child's studies and can my child actually pursue his dreams? It was exchanged in the debate. It wasn't unexpected. There are people here who know what is going on and who can well argue and reason. You don't have to agree with each other, but that's how a political decision is made. But now we are going to say: those concerns have been a bit unforeseen. The low interest rate of the euro creates problems for pension funds, for example. Then it's about problems with their coverage. Despite the large reserves, pension funds must now be cut short. Was that unforeseen? No. All this has been predictable and manageable. We didn't need an emergency bill for that. They're political choices. And then the Brexit. We've seen him coming for two years, so he's not that unexpected. We already have countries we trade with, of which we import goods and to which we export. We have people coming here through visa systems and control systems. We already have a very large part of the world as a third country. What unforeseen situation does the minister have on his retina? I've been puzzled about it for a long time. It's not suddenly a third country. There's a lot of them already. We're also dealing with those countries. Then what's it on? Then what's that unforeseen? What policy area could that be? And even so, if there is anything unforeseen or something ad hoc should happen, then the Chamber is always prepared to do so. She showed this when nationalising the banks in 2008. But also last year, when the risk had to be frozen, the Chamber showed that it was able to adopt something retroactively, even in one day. The law for one's own risk came on Monday, and Tuesday night it was passed and it was settled. We could even decide to meet on Saturday. We can even decide to meet at the Spui or the Grand Place. That's up to us. It is a question of the will of the Chamber to deal with emergencies, to resolve them, to make a proposal to the government, to assess them and to show them transparently to everyone, how they can work out, how they can do so better, and who is against them. That democratic process does not need to be hung up on us at all, and we certainly do not need to abuse the Brexit for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u48	It is just that we have never seen a country that is a member of the European Union leave before. Isn't that what Mrs Leijten is ignoring? Of course there are other third countries, everyone knows that. That is not what the debate is about today either. It's about having a country that's in the European Union. Based on the fact that we are in the European Union together, there are all kinds of rules that we have agreed with each other, in terms of trade, prosperity, jobs, honesty. There are rules in the field of employment protection. All kinds of things: standards, tariffs... I can go on forever. All kinds of fundamental rights are also regulated in this way. We were just talking yesterday about the privacy and the data exchange. That is now falling out and Mrs Leijten is completely ignoring it. I just want to ask her if she is deliberately ignoring that, to pretend that the Brexit is not a special situation. Or is she gonna call it? Because, of course, it is not the case that the United Kingdom is 'a third country'. It is a third country with which we have now regulated a great deal through the Union. Once they're out, nothing's settled. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u49	Yes, it is unique that a country says: we are no longer in the European Union. But we've known this for two years. So for two years it could have been taken care of completely. Yesterday I did indeed talk about the question that Justice and Security still has in handing over suspects. Can there be extradited from the UK? I also mention the sharing of all kinds of data. Then I'm thinking, how come this hasn't been mapped out yet? It was the Brexit rapporteurs who said last November: go ahead and do that. They didn't start that until September and then you have to include an article X to say: we have to settle that ad hocly. My reasoning is that this is not necessarily necessary, because we can do so quickly. Creating and publishing a ministerial arrangement in the Official Journal is a way to upgrade you to a law. It's all technique. But we haven't filed and passed that law on our own risk in less than 24 hours. It's possible. The premise that we give away with this rule by decree is enormous. I think it's unique. But I do not think that unforeseen situations can arise because we can make that analysis. In fact, a very large part of the European Union has stated in many parts that, in a situation of a Brexit without agreement, all kinds of British rules are accepted one-on-one, in order to allow a soft landing, for example for the financial sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u50	I appreciate Mrs Leijten's concern about the position of Parliament. We have tabled an amendment on this, so I do not need to talk to her about it any further. However, I do find this. The SP, however much I appreciate their concern, has a hand in predicting the future afterwards. In hindsight, Mrs Leijten and all her partymates always knew that they had seen it well in advance. That is easy to say afterwards, but we now have a situation in which we have to make preliminary assessments. No one can predict how all kinds of parts are going to unpack. Mrs Leijten, too, cannot provide for everything, although she pretends to. And that is why this particular law is needed, with parliamentary control. I would like to ask Mrs Leijten to pay a little more attention to and to deal more seriously with the unforeseen side of this situation. Mrs Leijten is now putting it down as if we could easily predict and regulate everything, as if we should have everything arranged so that this law would not be necessary. And I'm fighting that lecture.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u51	I would like to return to the point that the SP always pretends to have been right afterwards. You will have to look back at the debates on home care, what we have predicted and what is happening now. You will have to look at our prediction in the Constitutional referendum on the Treaty of Lisbon. All lies, the light would go out. But it's all happening now. There is a political Commission that is the boss. A military power is being built up. None of that was true. More recently, we warned at the Ukraine referendum that the association agreement would lead to the influx of puff chickens on our market. Mr Verhoeven told me at the time that I was a populist. In the meantime, the European Parliament has instructed the Commission to revise that treaty, because there are so many puffs in Europe. Perhaps Mr Verhoeven should listen a little more often rather than say: no, I'm turning away criticism as populism and I don't have to listen to it anymore. And now the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u52	Oh, was this just the introduction? It's gonna be a long night.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u53	I do not think that an unforeseen situation justifies the slide of rule by decree. Something could happen tomorrow in our country that we didn't foresee. Then we have to take emergency measures and then we have to pass a law on Saturday. Parliament will then have that willingness. The unforeseen situations the minister mentioned were about cattle on the quay, about rotting fruit. In situations like that, it can maintain authority. You don't need emergency laws for that. If Mr Verhoeven really thinks that there are unforeseen situations or that he is not quite ready with his assessment of where those risks lie, then he must be open about them. And he hasn't been in the whole process.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u54	Finally, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u55	Finally. I am not taking anything away from Mrs Leijten's concern. Once again, I do not always agree with Mrs Leijten, but I take her concerns seriously and I always listen carefully to her. Mrs Leijten and her party will probably have been right to predict the future a number of times, but she is now bringing up the Ukraine Treaty herself, and then the most well-known example comes to my mind. The SP has repeatedly claimed, the SP has repeatedly claimed that Ukraine would become a member of the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u56	We're not going to talk about the Ukraine referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u57	That is what the SP has constantly said, and it is not going to happen. So also the SP sometimes gets it wrong. I use this example, Mr President, because the SP has just claimed that this law will lead to a wider application of this unique power for the government in all kinds of other cases. Mrs Leijten can now look me in the eye. That will not happen either. Even that prophecy will not come true.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u58	I didn't do that prophecy at all. I do not know who Mr Verhoeven has been listening to, but I did not say at all that this article will be abused in other areas. I merely said that I do not want the Brexit to be abused at all in order to terminate our control function and our co-legislative task. I have indicated why the democratic process with a transparent, public debate with decision-making, which we can hold anywhere, often makes rules better. I refuse to use the unforeseen Brexit to abuse the parliamentary principle, the Constitution. I have done a lot of these debates on the Ukraine referendum. We have said: you will see that this is an adjustment. We did not say that Ukraine would become a member. Mr President, Mr Verhoeven is not listening...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u59	Don't worry about it, Mrs. Leijten. Finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u60	Well, I guess I'll leave it at that. It would be very good for D66 and certainly Mr Verhoeven if he listened more often.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u61	He promised he'd do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u62	One comment. Look, the characteristic of an unforeseen situation is that it's unforeseen, so you can't foresee it and you can't take any action. But that's not my question. Mrs Leijten just said: abuse the Constitution. Now I have here the opinion of the Council of State. The Council of State gives its opinion on any government bill, and says: in view of the exceptional nature of the Brexit, the section considers a broad safety net provision to be necessary such as this one. That's Article X. What is the relationship between Mrs Leijten's speech and all her indignation about the Constitution being undermined? To this remark of the Council of State, is it not an authoritative institution when it comes to advice?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u63	The Council of State is very critical. I was just reading the wording of the Council of State on the law and its consistency. The board says: we don't really know if this is a systematic approach. That's what it says. We can always get one sentence out of it. That is fine, but I have been surprised that it has gone completely beyond the parliamentary process, which also makes it better. I'm not going past that. We have also been warned about this by professors and we are also making our own analysis of the Council of State. I am concerned, not only for now and this unforeseen situation, but also for the future. We give something out of our hands if we make rule possible by decree. We shouldn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u64	It should therefore be noted that Mrs Leijten is selectively quoting from the opinion of the Council of State. She only quotes what is critical, but when the Council of State simply says "we understand that this arrangement, Article X, is necessary," she says she makes her own assessment. That's a little selective shopping. The Council of State is indeed critical and that is why, following the criticism, this Minister has amended the law on a number of points. My point is that Mrs Leijten is standing here making huge pooha while the Council of State says it is necessary. I'm gonna go get some other laws. What do we do, for example, with the Health Insurance Act? I quote from that law, because there is also a provision in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u65	Don't quote everything, because everyone got the advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u66	No, I'll do a little bit. We want to be on time... But it must also be careful! "In the case of ministerial arrangements, temporary arrangements may be made to the extent necessary for the implementation of the Financial Supervision Act or of this Act and, if necessary, by way of derogation from this Act." For example, I have a whole set of laws that contain these kinds of provisions. And then we do not speak of "decree!', "exhaustment!', "democracy!" et cetera. I do not understand Mrs Leijten's indignation at this bill. It is very common for such provisions to be included; so does the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u67	Within a legal framework, saying "the government is allowed to adjust healthcare rates without a whole parliamentary process" is something we do in a lot of laws. But then they will have been given the political mandate to complete that task. What they're saying now is that they can announce laws through a ministerial arrangement. And that's really something else. The completion of policies or an adjustment at the time of the occurrence of an unforeseen situation in a law may be subject to a ministerial arrangement or a general measure of governance. But that is included in the relevant bill. It's very common. It's just not common to use that tool to change other laws and to use it that way. And that has to do with "decree."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u68	Finally, Mr Anne Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u69	Those are really big words again. What we stand for under this law is actually very simple. It is about dealing with unforeseen and unacceptable consequences of the Brexit on humans and animals. That's right, cattle on the quay! Maybe there's gonna be cattle burning out in the sun. I don't know. Maybe patients need stuff because they're in mortal danger. I don't know, and I'd like that arranged. And then, as a citizen, the big words of Mrs Leijten, who are totally exaggerated, are very little, really nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u70	As far as animal welfare is concerned, we can take these animals off that quay right away. That's no problem at all. You can do that, and you don't need an article or a bill that you still have to write and publish in the Official Journal. By the way, you're too late for those animals. Those medications are a problem, yes. That is precisely what we said yesterday: can we not solve it better? I started with the plea that I actually want that Brexit to be averted without any agreement and that that is the commitment of the Dutch Government. Then this bill is no longer necessary. Mr. Chairman. I'll come back to the Council of State. The Council of State is an advisory body. We always look seriously at his advice, but even the government and even coalition parties regularly choose to ignore the advice of the Council of State. We simply do that because we believe that we have arguments to do something different with society than the Council of State has advised.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u71	Please continue, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u72	Amending Article X does not make it much better as far as I am concerned. As far as we're concerned, Article X goes out. Because I would find it very cynical if the outcome of the referendum in the United Kingdom could be said about that, but it was about control, about whether you still feel part of the European Union and whether there is enough of Britain left within the European Union; so it was actually about democracy that ultimately leads to the erosion of our democracy. We are the elected representatives of the people, we have the direct mandate of the electorate, and therefore we must get pre-arranged arrangements from the government and not afterwards when they are published in the Official Journal, with the possibility of withdrawing them within a week. Then there is nothing you can do to change an arrangement. Then it's yes or no to the whole arrangement. It's really different from when you get it in advance. I have already said that as a Chamber in emergency situations, we have always shown our willingness to do it quickly, but that is part of the fact that we are getting a measure in advance by law and that we can say whether it is good or not. We can take it as a hammer piece within an hour if we all want it, but there's no need to hollow it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u73	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Ojik on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u74	Thank you, Mr President. I'll have a sip of water right away. For the first time, a Member State comes from the European Union and not just one: the United Kingdom, an important player in the EU and also an important partner of the Netherlands. The Brexit has great consequences for the Netherlands.I'm not saying anything new with that, but which exactly, we don't know yet. I don't know yet, but, more importantly, the Minister doesn't know that either. We at GroenLinks do not blame the Minister. Gradually it has become clear what a comprehensive, messy, unpredictable and complicated process such a retirement actually is. One would hope that the advocates of a nexit will learn from that. Unfortunately, yesterday in the debate we had for four hours with our colleague from the PVV, Mr Van Dijck, nothing has been found. So the chance that we run into unforeseen events is not unimaginable. The cabinet must, of course, ask itself whether in such cases it has the right instruments to respond adequately. That's no big deal. That is the duty of the cabinet. However, my group has been surprised at the way in which this Minister has gone with his collectible law. Almost carelessly, it seemed, the parliament was asked to take the normal course of law-making and to allow the cabinet to rule through general administrative measures and possibly even ministerial arrangements to which the parliament might subsequently give its blessing. Why this had to be done, in which cases, how long the exception could last and what the possible alternatives are, it was all underexposed. The criticism was therefore almost unanimous. In a hearing, lawyers in such strong terms expressed their disapproval that the Members of Parliament present, some of us, almost unanimously, where do you still come across that, Mr President? In the course of the sitting, I was shocked to hear a number of written questions. One expert spoke of an unconstitutional breach of the powers of the legislature and the other said that you have powers that you give away but difficult to get back. The co-workers remember it. Nor did the Council of State's reaction lie. Colleagues have already talked about it. It lacked a coherent analysis and approach, called the authorisation to deviate from the law under ministerial regulation highly unusual and very undesirable and did not understand that different solutions were proposed for the same type of problem. That's kind of fundamental. "Brexit is not an alibi for an administrative coup d'état," NRC Handelsblad headlined a key editorial comment this week. That newspaper isn't a classic sensationalist anyway. In the meantime, the Minister has amended the law on a number of points and further proposals have been made, including from the coalition, to provide additional safeguards for the power of parliament. We will hear today how the Minister responds to these amendments. However, in a general sense, I also wonder how the Minister actually weighs the heavy criticism on such a fundamental issue. Did he see it coming? Was he surprised? Maybe he underestimated it after all? The latter seems almost to be the case. I can't wait to hear his reaction. Mr. Chairman. The Council of State notes that the Minister has not yet clarified exactly which laws should be repealed. We have just talked about this and Mrs Leijten also spoke about it. We always hear the same example: there is a truck with animals in it somewhere on the quay and we have to intervene. Maybe there's another way. It would be a good thing if the Minister were to make another attempt here today to clarify exactly what specific cases he thinks he needs this law. This might provide an insight into the proportionality of the measure proposed by the cabinet. In that context, I also found that there was no distinction between the situation after an ordered Brexit, a Brexit with an exit agreement, i.e. that thick piece of paper that we have all seen, or a variant on it, and on the other hand a Brexit with a no deal, without agreement. I can imagine very well that if you do not have agreements on exit, you can face all kinds of very unforeseen events. But I'm assuming that if you've made an agreement, you've covered up those possible unforeseen events as much as you can, so you shouldn't need that law. I ask the Minister why the distinction between a no deal and a no deal, we all hope that it does not take place and an orderly Brexit does not appear much stronger in what the Minister wants or does not want to use the law for. I would also like to hear from the Minister a more detailed explanation of the alternatives available to deal with laws as a matter of urgency. Has that been looked at seriously? Mrs Leijten, and I also thought Mr Verhoeven, spoke about this. We can, if we want, handle urgent regulations pretty quickly. For example, two years ago, I believe, we showed this when we reverse the increase in our own risk; that example was mentioned just now. We could very well agree that we treat Brexit-related legislation in this Chamber as a priority in all cases. That in itself could be a very logical statement by this Chamber about its own way of working. I could, if necessary, table a motion for that in the second term or so. We do not need any heavy legislation for that. Mr. Chairman. I am going slowly but surely, to increase the tension, to my own amendment. I would like to explain this. I shall begin by saying once again that the Minister has introduced more safeguards into the law on a number of points in order to be able to carry out Parliament's tasks properly. The First and Second Chambers are given the power to stop ministerial regulations and administrative measures that are contrary to the law directly if they do not agree. In the original proposal, the Chambers probably had to wait eight weeks for that, but now they don't have to. That is an improvement, but that does not go far enough as far as GroenLinks is concerned. The Council of State has noted for a reason that it is now too unclear what the government's power to regulate itself will be used for. In my group's view, the fact that the basis of delegation can be used for almost everything means that parliamentary control must be large, perhaps even greater than it is now. Amendments have been tabled for this purpose, but I myself have added an amendment which regulates that not only a majority of the First or Second Chamber, but also a substantial minority can block a measure of governance or ministerial regulation on the basis of this law. My amendment refers to a third of the members of the First or Second Chambers. This is a so-called heavy suspension procedure, in which not only the majority can block an AMvB or ministerial arrangement but also a substantial minority. It happens all the time. There are many laws that have such a provision. My group will propose to do the same here in this law, because we believe that it will help to strike a better balance between the need to intervene quickly and the need for parliamentary care.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u75	Were you done with your contribution, Mr. Van Ojik?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u76	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u77	Interesting amendment. I know of several laws that say, for example, that an AMvB or a treaty that has been deposited here for tacit approval, by a minority, by 30 Members, can be stopped so that it is dealt with. That's normal. However, I do not know of any legislation which would allow a minority of the Chamber to stop a ministerial arrangement, so perhaps Mr Van Ojik could give an example of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u78	Of course, I asked myself that question before I came up with that amendment and I found a number of laws. Let me take a look at my list: the Wmo, the Framework Law on Conscription, the Milk Cattle Act, the Environmental Management Act, about environmental quality standards, the Aliens Act. I do not think it is necessary to explain this to Mr Omtzigt, I believe, on the basis of a fifth of the Members. I thought I had to raise that line a little, because a fifth might be very little and came to a third.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u79	Those are front suspension procedures. A front suspension procedure is pretty clear. Then a limited part of the Chamber can say: whoa, wait a minute, this is not going to be implied but we are going to deal with this. However, if I see Mr Van Ojik's amendment, it is not a front-end procedure, which I could imagine, but it will stop and the whole thing will lapse.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u80	Instead, there will be a normal legislative proposal, a legislative procedure. Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u81	Yeah, but that's a crucial difference. As part of the House says when it comes to a suspension procedure, we would like to deal with it explicitly, so it should not pass by for tacit approval. That's a front. Then 30 members say: Minister, explain yourself. Well, it makes sense that that is a minority right, because the opposition must also be able to say: hey, you explain. But this is different. It says: the government comes up with a concept that doesn't even have to be AMvB that goes against a law or something; that can be any concept that is AMvB and then you would create the possibility for the minority to stop a legislative act. I don't know that figure in any law, so that's my question. Where in the law, except in the case of a constitutional change, where we have a two-thirds majority, a minority is allowed to block something the majority of which says: do it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u82	Mr Omtzigt must see it here as a tightening up of the amended proposal that the cabinet has actually made by saying: if a majority of the States-General wants to call it a light hanging procedure; I do not know exactly what the word for it is not an AMvB or ministerial regulation but a normal legislative process, then half plus one in such a suspension procedure can stop that process and replace it with a regular legislative process. The amendment indeed aims to convert that majority into a third minority in order to further increase Parliament's position. I mentioned the analogy with heavy procedures as Mr Omtzigt mentioned, but this is indeed a different situation. In this sense, it is a response to the cabinet's proposal to allow it to be granted to a majority. The aim of this amendment is to allow this also to a substantial minority of a third party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u83	I therefore understand that this is completely new and that GroenLinks is proposing that a minority in the Chamber should be able to stop legislative acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u84	If, by appealing to this law, the law we are discussing here today, a minority of a third, of 50 plus 1 members, it says 'we do not want it this way', then if this amendment is adopted, it can ensure that the proposal that the cabinet intends to make in the context of the Brexit is dealt with in a normal legislative procedure. That is exactly what the amendment is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u85	I understand it now, but that means that a majority who then says 'do so; go on like this' can be stopped by the minority and that then it does not happen. A majority in the Chamber may wish to see some kind of intervention, but a minority may say: no, we do not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u86	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u87	I think that democratically is a very complicated concept. I find the procedural law that Mr Omtzigt and Mr Van Ojik have just discussed very logical; I think it is logical that a minority should have a procedural right. But this is really something other than the right of procedure to deal with something; this is stopping something that has been set in motion. That is really fundamentally different. Could Mr Van Ojik please answer the question of how democratic it is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u88	I understand that distinction, but it is not so much a question of stopping the substance; it is a question of how it is dealt with. If you want to do something as a cabinet, you can opt for an AMvB, or in emergencies, if you don't want to, for a ministerial arrangement. That's what we're discussing right now. This amendment says that if a third of Parliament objects to it, the same substance can of course be proposed, but then it must be proposed by a normal legislative procedure as we know it here. So you could say that it's about content, but you could also say: no, it's actually about the process; it's about how you submit your proposal to Parliament. Maybe it's a little bit in between.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u89	Mr Verhoeven, finally on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u90	I understand Mr Van Ojik is explaining it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u91	It's about the way we make a proposal...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u92	But then I'm going to translate it into all the other general measures of governance that we're dealing with here in the Chamber all the time. We are doing this on the basis that there is a majority for something that at some point is okay with it. That is what Mr Van Ojik really wants to get rid of. If a general measure of governance is dealt with, the majority of which says it is good, then Mr Van Ojik wants to be able to stop it, so that at least there will be a law. And if there is a majority in favour of that law, that law, which is exactly the same and which is also dealt with by the Chamber, will still be passed. Then there will be another delay, which we all want to avoid. The question is: what exactly is the point of your amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u93	The point is that a minority in Parliament who, for whatever reason, would like to talk about a law does not have that possibility and is excluded from the normal legislative process. We assume that the cabinet only invokes this law in very exceptional cases, where it is actually clear to a large majority. It is not for nothing that I always mention the proposal of the animals in the truck; that is an example of which everyone said: of course something must be done. In those cases, it seems to us very appropriate to do so. We have talked about this before: it does indeed differ substantially from the law of the state in force. The purpose of the amendment is, then, to give a minority that opportunity to resort to normal procedures.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u94	Colleagues have already asked some more technical questions, if I may interpret them that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u95	Yeah, that was hard enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u96	So I actually wanted to ask a more political question. I listened to Mr Van Ojik. Is my conclusion that he is actually putting this against the rude gun that the cabinet is using with this emergency law, even with the amendment it is proposing? May I interpret it in such a way that this is his answer to the rude artillery of the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u97	I did say in my speech that I have the impression that, certainly with the original proposal of the cabinet, the powers of Parliament were easily messed up. There are now a number of proposals and the cabinet itself has made a number of adjustments. Then there were other amendments, which I believe are all in the right direction. What this amendment seeks to do is to tighten up that parliamentary emergency brake, or whatever you want to call it. You can say that this is in the spirit of a number of other amendments, but that is necessary in my group's view in order to avoid that there will soon be relatively controversial... I am not saying this for nothing: we assume that this emergency measure will only be used in cases that are not very controversial politically. So then there won't be a minority of 50+1 in this Chamber, I think, who in such a case says "o, do it" or "don't do it." So it is an extra emergency brake that I think is necessary because we think that the cabinet is very easily crossing Parliament's powers in a number of cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u98	Mr Van Ojik is crystal clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u99	What I like about it is that it does not do justice to the minimum majority that can push something through it, without a real process of debate. The moment we get an AMvB, we have to say yes or no, but if we get a law, we can also change it and try to make it better in the debate. Has this been Mr Van Ojik's intention to give the Chamber the power to table amendments to such legislative proposals?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u100	The point is that, in my view, we all find that, at least, I assume that the regular legislative process is by far preferable to what the cabinet is now asking for in this law. The cabinet says: Rest assured, we only do so in cases where it is so obvious that something must be done that we cannot do otherwise. Then a majority in this Parliament is something other than a substantial minority. With a substantial minority, you have an extra emergency brake. It's just what you call it. As Mrs Leijten says, that gives the minority the opportunity to say: we want to deal with this same proposal and discuss it in substance, but in a normal legislative process. That's what it's about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u101	Mr President, you know how much I love legal treatment. You can then table amendments and amend the law. You really do your job, the handiwork. The fact that this is made possible is a nice and valuable addition which obviously goes beyond the so-called emergency brakes of D66 and the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u102	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u103	That too is crystal clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u104	I thank Mrs Leijten, of course, for her words of appreciation, but if I may add one thing: it also builds on an existing practice there I just had a little debate with Mr Omtzigt on the operation and effect, but we do know the precedent that a third of the members of the States-General can intervene. I hear Mr Omtzigt outside the microphone: yes, that is in another situation; I recognize that. But we know the story.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u105	I've got a shorter one, other question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u106	Short!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u107	I would also ask Mr Van Ojik to visit our group on Tuesday and explain this amendment himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u108	Yeah, invitation accepted. I assume this means that you are seriously considering voting for this, otherwise I can use my time better.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u109	I'll think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u110	I'd be happy to accept the invitation, Madam President. You are witnessing this!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u111	Yeah, the invitation is literally in the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u112	Then I'm gonna practice!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u113	I'd do that, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u114	That was an open-ended shot.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u115	Sure. My question to you is another one, namely whether you will support our amendment. You were standing right here at the point where I stand, at the interrupting microphone, and you had a whole mathematical analysis of Lower House work and whether or not to support a law based on amendments. That was an interesting moment. Then I thought, "God, why don't you ask Mr Van Ojik what he actually thinks of the D66 amendment?" Are you going to support that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u116	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u117	That's good to hear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u118	Thank you, Mr. Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u119	Oh, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u120	I now give the floor to Mrs Ploumen, on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u121	Thank you, Mr President. I'm replacing Louis Asscher today, who fell by the flu. The Brexit is and remains a tragedy. Ordinary people are going to pay the bill for a bunch of boarding school kids and people's real concerns haven't listened to those boarding school kids. Where the Brexit deadline approaches, the chaos in the UK seems to be only increasing further. The result is great uncertainty on both sides of the North Sea. Can I still live here later? Can I still export my flowers? Can I still pay the bills? Millions of British and Dutch people are in uncertainty and all our efforts must be aimed at preventing and removing this uncertainty as much as possible. The only certainty we have is that the worst imaginable scenario is a Brexit without any appointment. The PvdA is and remains of the opinion that the British are welcome if they want to change their mind, and that a hard Brexit should be prevented at all times, even if more time is needed. As far as we are concerned, the deadline of 29 March does not have to be a hard deadline, if we can avoid a hard Brexit. Actually, my greatest hope, and my group's hope, is that we won't need the Brexit Collector's Act at all. In case we need that law, I still have a number of critical questions to ask the Minister. About Article X, that you can quietly qualify as a stone of offence, I have a number of questions. It is good that the Minister has come up with a letter of amendment which better guarantees parliamentary involvement. The fact that we cannot predict the future must never mean that Parliament can be sidelined. The future is always unpredictable, as colleagues have said. We have experienced panic situations before where Parliament was able to act quickly. We are therefore still not convinced of the usefulness and necessity of Article X. Following on from Mr Van Ojik and Mrs Leijten, I would also like to ask the Minister to give concrete examples of the need for this emergency law. I do not need to hear the example of the animals on the quay. As far as we are concerned, the Minister's argument that it is a question of unknown unknowns is not enough. All life is full of that and all people deal with it every day. Mr Omtzigt asks if I am suffering from anything. Not at all. It is a good thing that we are always prepared and able to deal with the things that change. The CDA can do that very well, we have seen this week. So we're not convinced yet. However, we welcome the fact that Article X has been contained. I say to Mr Verhoeven that he can certainly count on our support for his amendments, because we very much support that restriction of Article X. Our final assessment of the whole law depends on the Minister's response and, of course, on his appreciation of those amendments. Mr. Chairman. Then the subject of dual nationalities. The cabinet leaves the fate of Dutch citizens in the United Kingdom entirely to the British government. It has to make sure that it is good for the Dutch and, by the way, for the other Europeans who are in the United Kingdom. But we've seen over the past few weeks and months how erratic that British government can be. It is therefore incomprehensible, in my group's view, that a simple solution to this problem is always rejected by this cabinet, and also for unclear and vague reasons. The majority of EU Member States do not have any nationality implications for the adoption of another nationality. Within the EU, therefore, there are citizens who have a stronger position than Dutch. That is undesirable, because among the countries where it is not, there are Member States like even Austria that are going to settle it for their citizens. Then why can't this be done in the Netherlands? That is why I make the urgent request to the cabinet: really stand up for the Dutch in the UK and for the British in the Netherlands and make it possible for all citizens affected by the Brexit to have a double nationality. For this cabinet a small step, but of great significance to all those people who really are not waiting for the Brexit. Mr. Chairman. I would like to make one more point about fishing. Yesterday this was discussed during the general consultation, as I understand it. We can all imagine what a huge impact it will have for a fisherman if 40% of the area of activity disappears. The European Commission has made a number of proposals, for example to mobilise funds from the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund to mitigate the consequences of a disorderly break-up with the UK. In reply from Minister Schouten we have read that the cabinet is examining these proposals. But I wonder what there is actually to study. It seems like a very sensible plan. How does this minister view this? Please let us remove as much uncertainty as possible as quickly as possible. Mr. Chairman. The Labour Party continues to insist on an ambitious future relationship with the United Kingdom. We don't want a race down when it comes to taxes, the environment and labour. That must be prevented absolutely. Should the British change their minds: our hearts go out to us and are open to them. Come back! Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u122	Thank you, Mrs Ploumen. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raan on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u123	Thank you, Mr President. Today part two in the Brexit diptych. Yesterday, Minister Blok and some of his colleagues claimed that the Netherlands exports very few animals to the United Kingdom. That is actually a painful example of the blind spot for the bio-industry. In 2017, these included 1,372 cattle, 2,574 horses, 75 pigs, 429 sheep and goats and more than 10,000 chicks. That's a hell of a lot of animals. The fact that these animals are only a small part of the Dutch livestock does not change that at all. Each animal is an individual with a right to life and well-being. This morning and this afternoon we debated this to a large extent. The starting point that an animal is an individual with a right to his own life and well-being was in no way in question. Not only in the case of imports, but also in the case of exports of live animals, major problems will be encountered. If the situation in a well-organized country like the Netherlands seems to be wrong in this respect, we read it everywhere, then we fear even more than we normally do for the fate of the animals we send to the United Kingdom. That is why we are saying that we want a partial ban on breeding which is so large that we can not only meet the Urgenda statements in the short term, but are also prepared for a complete stop to imports and exports of live animals from and to the United Kingdom. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The good news is that we recently know that not only the Animal Party is concerned about animals, but also that Minister Blok is concerned about them. In replying to the questions put before the House by twelve of the thirteen political groups, Mr Blok wrote that it was his job, among other things, to prevent animal suffering. In the written examination of this bill, the Minister made it appear that Article X is also intended to prevent animal suffering where necessary. But that is of course a special tragedy: a minister of this cabinet uses the prevention of animal suffering as an alibi to justify his Brexit legislation. In fact, he uses the animal suffering to affect democracy by means of Article X. A lot has been said about that. Thus, Article X is used as a patching agent. And over the past few weeks, the videos piled up about what is happening in the Dutch stables. The hideous images are still on the retina of many people. The cabinet is partly responsible for these dramas in the Dutch stables, but looks away. So one, this cabinet says to do a lot but maintains the system, and two, the cabinet then uses animal suffering as justification for a violation of parliamentary fundamental rights. The question is whether the Minister sees this hypocritical division as well. I'd like a response to that. Mr. Chairman. Then the Brexit. The Brexit Emergency Act causes a lot of fuss, and that fuss is perfectly justified and understandable. It is unique that the government, through an emergency law with far-reaching measures, tries to transfer power from parliament to government. Mr Van Ojik also said a few words about this last weekend in the Comment that 'the cabinet has failed to propose that ministerial arrangements should be made possible in the event of unforeseen problems without the intervention of Parliament'. It ended with: "The Brexit cannot be an alibi for an administrative coup d'état." Those were big words. But also the Council of State and several state scholars were extremely critical of Article X. It is not the case that Parliament is completely out of play, but it is asked to sign at the cross. It removes the right of amendment from the Chamber. The Council of State is not giving any advice. Nor can the Council of Ministers correct it. The danger that the Minister will be able to draw power to him also remains, including the changes proposed by the Minister. We therefore believe that Article X does not belong in the law and make repair proposals for it. It remains completely unclear what these unacceptable and irreversible consequences of the Brexit are. With your permission, Mr. Chairman, I'll finish this piece. However, I have seen Mr Anne Mulder's upcoming interruption. The assessment is entirely in the hands of a random minister. And if the government decides that major geopolitical disturbances, for example, can be a consequence of the Brexit, then this article can be used to take far-reaching measures. I'm not saying it's happening, but it can't be ruled out. And if the government believes that Brexit would harm the interests of a large company, then this law can be used to protect the interests of that large company. That's actually the fear of using a Brexit as a crowbar for a multinational.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u124	I'm trying to get what Mr Van Raan says to work on me. I have already quoted the Council of State, which says, "This law is needed." But does Mr Van Raan blame the cabinet for the importance of animal welfare? Is Mr Van Raan therefore against Article X?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u125	No, Mr Anne Mulder claims to listen carefully, but I do not think that has taken place entirely. I will reply in two ways. Firstly, the mention of the Council of State is justified. However, the Council of State has also said, and that quote I have prepared: 'A permit to deviate from the law in a formal sense by ministerial regulation is, especially now that the laws from which derogations can be made are not determined, highly unusual and, in view of the primacy of the legislator, very undesirable'. So let's say the Council of State is really super critical about that. Then there is the second point. Yes, we do find it hypocritical that the government is using the example of the truck on the quay with live animals in it, because it maintains an agricultural system that is unprecedented. It holds half a billion animals a year under terrible conditions. You're acting like this bio-industry is normal. No, he's not normal. In our view, the way in which we do this is a serious scandal, both in view of the ethical consequences, i.e. how we should treat animals, and in view of the consequences for animals, nature, the environment and the future. You may not think so, but we think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u126	That's clear, Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u127	And to say, "Yes, but we are very concerned about the few animals that could be on the quay," and to use that as an alibi to affect seemingly democratic fundamental rights, we find that hypocritical. Yeah, that's right. If Mr Mulder wants to do something about animal suffering...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u128	There's been talk of animals all day, so I want to...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u129	Exactly! So if Mr Mulder wants to do something about animal suffering, I suggest that he shows that on Tuesday when he votes on the motions that have been tabled. And then we have another conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u130	Let's practice. We don't know what situations this is about. Animals are often called animals. Mrs Ploumen said "often." It can happen to animals. Then the Minister wants to intervene, but that cannot be because Article X has been deleted. You did, then, that deletion of Article X. That's what you're responsible for. Would you like to bear that responsibility, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u131	I propose to Mr Mulder that we carry it together with the whole Chamber, because we have seen countless examples. They've been quoted, too. We've saved banks, we've even adapted health insurance, we've adapted pension policies without ever having needed Article X.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u132	Proceed, Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u133	The invitation to Mr. Mulder to take that responsibility together stands. That's what we're a parliament for. Mr. Chairman. I will continue my speech. The entire Chamber is concerned about this law. Opinions differ on the solution. Mr Omtzigt and Mr Verhoeven have tabled an amendment. We have just discussed this in a debate. I don't see either of them right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u134	They're here. There's Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u135	Ah, I see him. They have tabled an amendment allowing the government to consider the United Kingdom as an EU country in case of emergency. The important hatchet approach, which we appreciate in itself and which should be an extra check, does not apply. That seems to be a creative solution, but I would ask the Minister whether this amendment is possible at all. The Netherlands can then, as far as is now known, be the only EU country to provide that in certain and currently unspecified areas the United Kingdom is not a third country, but a country covered by EU legislation. At least that is how we read the amendment and the explanatory statement. What happens when ministerial arrangements decide that the UK is seen as an EU country in a particular area, while the United Kingdom does not have to act as an EU country at all? At some point, what can and may be done in the EU is going to happen with what can and may be done in the United Kingdom. That is not after one day and perhaps not after one month, but perhaps after one year. This solution is lost, as time passes, in a jungle of unforeseen and perhaps unacceptable consequences. I'd like a response from the Minister. In our opinion, therefore, we find ourselves in a contradiction, a catch 22, if I may call it that. In order to avoid unforeseen and unacceptable consequences, this law creates unforeseen and unacceptable problems. Members of Parliament have been working with the best of intentions, and I am sure that Mr Blok has been working with a hard-hitting solution to weaken the infamous Article X, but let there be no misunderstanding: Minister Blok is responsible for this law. We need to get Article X out of here. We shouldn't let them scare us. For the fear that the Brexit raises among some is, in our opinion, being abused by the Minister to shift power to individual ministers. It is a classic example of what Naomi Klein explained in her book The Shock Doctrine. Panic capitalism, with ever-expanding powers of a government without democratic control and removing institutions. Democracy is at stake in many places. It is our fundamental duty as Members of Parliament, although in the eyes of some people it may be a relatively small shift in comparison with what is happening in other countries to fight it. I promised the Minister I'd give him that book. That's what I'm doing here. The price is still on it: €17.50. So it's within all the rules. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u136	Thank you, Mr. Van Raan. I now give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u137	Thank you, Mr President. The late Winston Churchill, who died exactly 54 years ago today, wasn't used to underlining his opinion. The story goes, for example, I mention only one, but there are countless such anecdotes that he once said about the US Secretary of State John Foster Dulles that he was just smart enough to be quite stupid on a large scale. I wondered what Churchill's judgment would have been about British politicians in 2019. That they're exactly sammy enough to unite to torpedo real solutions? Or that they're exactly peace-loving enough to keep finding each other in endless wrangling? Or, in this case, would he have directed his arrows at this side of the Channel, at European leaders who, under the guise of clean diplomacy, keep the British in a deadly rend? Let's face it: I didn't figure out what his trouvaille would have been. Meanwhile, big interests are at stake for the ordinary Brit and for the ordinary Dutchman. The SGP is therefore pleased that the cabinet has taken the cow by the horns and has made preparations for the consequences of a deal or no-dealbrexit. For example, customs has been strengthened and a Brexit window has been set up for business. All that stuff. The SGP would like to express its appreciation for the way in which the cabinet has implemented the measures. The main question for the SGP with regard to the present Brexit Collecting Act is whether the amendments or measures proposed in this Act are necessary in the first place, secondly proportionate and thirdly effective to respond adequately to a Brexit while maintaining Parliament's position and involvement optimally. I'm gonna go through these three points one by one. First of all, the necessity. Let me begin with the recognition that a no-dealbrexit will put us in such great and unique challenges that also applies to a dealbrexit............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Brexit requires an unorthodox approach. The substantive elements of the bill, grouped by department in Articles I to IX, are therefore largely in favour of our agreement. In short, there is no doubt about the need. The second point is proportionality, also in relation to Parliament's involvement. The SGP nevertheless questions the government's emergency measures under Article X. The fact that the ordinary legislative process is not sufficient in all cases is in itself a legitimate consideration of the cabinet. This leads me to a question which, strictly speaking, also moves a little outside the sphere of Brexit, the whole issue and the legislation on it. I would like to have the Minister's reflection on that. Does the Minister consider it desirable or necessary to establish a special legislative procedure in this context? We do not know them in our constitutional law, but what does the Minister think of them, regardless of the specific context of the Brexit? Of course, the end doesn't justify all the means. As the Council of State put it, among other things, "an authorisation to deviate from the law in a formal sense by ministerial regulation is highly unusual and, given the primacy of the legislature, highly undesirable." Mr. Chairman. The central position of parliament in our constitutional order must be preserved. Moreover, the wide-ranging and far-reaching consequences of a possible no-dealbrexit make it more necessary for Parliament to be involved and thus to support the measures to be taken as widely as possible. The special powers of the government must therefore be firmly framed. Let me say this straight away: the letter of amendment contains a number of crucial elements for us. It is right to say that the consequences must be unacceptable and irreversible. And rightly so, it is only in very urgent cases that a ministerial arrangement is being discussed. This leads to a question: can the Minister define on the basis of which it is established that there is actually irreversibility or very urgent cases? Only with these changes and with the additional frameworks proposed in various amendments will the Brexit Collecting Act be able to pass our proportionality test. Mr. Chairman. The third point is effectiveness. It concerns the effectiveness of the bill. Is the Netherlands able to react quickly and well to a Brexit? As far as we are concerned, the answer to that question is that the combination of the Collecting Law and the policy preparations does indeed offer good hope in terms of ensuring an effective response. But I'll put my finger on a few more points. Firstly, the Netherlands must do everything in its power to prevent or mitigate congestion at the borders of, for example, agricultural products such as flowers, fruit and vegetables. Secondly, the principle of reciprocity is particularly important for the fisheries sector: no British access to the European market without European access to British fishing grounds. It is also important that after a no-dealbrexit companies are formally marked as soon as possible that they meet each other's phytosanitary requirements. I'd like a response from the Minister to that. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would point out that local authorities must also assume their responsibility to respond effectively to a no-dealbrexit. My question to the Minister is: who is in charge of coordination between central and local authorities and customs? I'll end up with Churchill. Let us use precisely the wisdom that is needed to be sensible on a fairly large scale, in the interests of the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and Europe. I'd like to leave it at that. Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u138	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. I now give the floor to Mrs Van der Graaf on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u139	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. The Story of Brexit. That's the title of a book I bought this Christmas vacation when I was in London. The booklet showed me that, despite the chaotic situation they are in, the British have not yet lost their sense of humor, filled with uncertainty and uncertainty. I've got it on me. If you'd like to look at it or read it a little bit, you can. It's incredibly funny. The British also describe that it is very complicated to be within the European Union. But if you step out, it'll be even more complicated if possible. Fortunately, the choice on the ballot didn't seem so complicated at all. But they came true. In recent weeks, or actually a much longer period, we could see that many large companies are announcing their departure from the UK. That, of course, is a matter of concern. So the British are not envying at the moment. The Christian Union therefore does not like to see them leaving the European Union. It is not yet clear whether it will continue and how it will continue. That turned out to be again last week. The uncertainty and uncertainty remain for them. However, we also need to prepare ourselves as the Netherlands for what is possible. If the British leave the European Union without the agreements agreed in the deal, then the United Kingdom will no longer be able to be seen as an EU Member State. This will have all kinds of consequences, for citizens' rights, for transport and logistics, for customs, for fisheries, for the availability of medicines, for professional qualifications, and so on. The government has filed the Brexit Collection Act to anticipate this. For example, this law regulates a number of very specific matters, for example with regard to British driving licences and their validity once the Brexit is a fact, but also with regard to benefits, for example for people who are in the Netherlands or in the United Kingdom who receive child benefit or who receive benefits under the General Survivors' Act or the Sickness Act. I ask the Minister to explain what that will ultimately mean in practice. Can people who are now receiving benefits on the basis of one of the social security schemes retain that benefit? What is the government going to do to make that happen? Those were some very concrete proposals. To be honest, I thought the bill was kind of amazing. There are very specific provisions on a number of subjects. In addition, a very broad authorisation provision has been introduced in Article X, which gives the government a very wide discretion to make provision for AMvB or ministerial regulation in all areas and also to derogate from existing laws. The government has done so because it does not think it can already oversee all the situations. In itself, I can imagine: there may be a situation in which an emergency situation arises. I cannot make it up and ask the Minister to try again to prove to this Chamber why he thinks it is necessary to make provision for that. But I can imagine that right now we just can't foresee everything. Article X has given rise to a great deal of controversy over the past period. The Chamber, and also the Christian Union, was very critical of this article. That is why the government has already amended the bill twice. The legislative proposal no longer contains unacceptable consequences, but also irreversible ones. That's a tightening up. Two amendments have also been proposed to increase Parliament's involvement if an AMvB or a ministerial arrangement is adopted. These are steps in the right direction, but the Christian Union still sees a number of crucial points needed to really improve this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u140	Of course, I very much agree with what the honourable Member says, namely that the law as it stands is not good, precisely because it restricts Parliament's powers, without us actually knowing why. Could I ask: does Mrs Van der Graaf support the amendments tabled by Mr Verhoeven and Mr Omtzigt? If that's all right with you right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u141	Mrs Ploumen may certainly ask that question, but I actually had another question in response to those amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u142	I'll come back to it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u143	That seems to me to be a good thing, because it seems to me to be a conclusion which we can only draw in the second term. Then I'll be a little more specific about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u144	It doesn't have to wait that long.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u145	One of the proposals is to limit the period during which this article can be withdrawn. So from a year, as the government suggests, to six months. I would like to ask the Minister how he looks at this. Is that enough time to foresee unexpected and unforeseen situations? I would like an explanation from the Minister. That is why I say that I will return to it in the second term, if you will allow it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u146	Then I'll ask my follow-up question. Should the Minister give an answer that is not entirely in line with your commitment, I say through the President, and should the amendments not be adopted, what would that mean for your support for the law? Can you give me any of a peek at that point?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u147	The Christian Union currently finds the bill as laid down and the authorisation provision too broadly defined. That is why I have tabled two amendments to limit them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u148	In my view, we are all looking for the amendment or deletion of Article X, but in any case, in the hope of a democratic process, for a grip on what the government considers necessary or not in unforeseen situations. It is possible that no amendment will be adopted at the time of the vote and that Article X will remain as it is. So the Christian Union will vote against the bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u149	I have indicated that I would ask the Minister once again to make it plausible why he needs the authorisation clause in Article X. I really need that explanation from the Minister in order to be able to make that assessment. The Christian Union considers it really necessary to restrict the authorisation provision as it has been formulated, not only in time or in time, but also in content. I would like to explain this in my amendments. I have tabled one of these amendments together with Mrs Leijten, so Mrs Leijten is already secretly taking into account that Article X may still exist. We want to ensure that the article at least regulates that there is no deviation from the Constitution. It is the government's intention not to do so, but from the explanations given by the government, there seems to be room for that. I think it is very important and crucial that we include explicitly in the legislative proposal, because the law regulates and not the explanatory statement that we should not deviate from the Constitution when taking an emergency measure. I find Mrs Leijten by my side.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u150	Mrs Leijten, do you have a question about your own amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u151	No, the reason why I think it is a very sensible amendment is that you are actually destroying the authorisation clause with that addition. I hope, of course, that it will be adopted. That seems obvious to me. Mrs Van der Graaf says: I really need more explanation from the Minister. We have, of course, had a written discussion before this discussion. Not only the SP and the Christian Union, but actually all the other parties only the VVD has not asked for it. Those concerns haven't really been taken away. We are all standing here asking for more explanation: now convince us that it is necessary!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u152	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u153	What exactly does it take to convince Mrs. Van der Graaf today?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u154	Like Mrs Leijten, I have had a critical input on the bill as it was sent to the Chamber. I have seen that the government has realised that it could not continue with what was there, and that it was wise to make some adjustments. I like the changes made by the government. She wants to involve Parliament more. There is also a tightening up of the content: in what situations can you remove the measure? But it is not enough for the Christian Union. That is why I have tabled these amendments. I hope they both get hired. I will explain the second in a moment. I hope that Mrs Leijten will support this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u155	I have a question about the first amendment. Can Mrs Van der Graaf indicate the circumstances under which you may deviate from the Constitution or from an international treaty? What circumstances are those?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u156	The Christian Union believes that you should not deviate from that. The amendment regulates that you do not deviate from the Constitution. That is a provision that we also know from the Municipal Law. When the mayor wants to announce an emergency regulation, he may deviate from laws, but not from the Constitution and fundamental rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u157	In this context, therefore, Mrs Van der Graaf says: you simply cannot deviate from the Constitution, even in this law. If the amendment is not adopted, then it seems that there is room for departure from the Constitution. That means that you will not be able to support the law. Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u158	Let me say the following. The government stated in the explanatory statement that it does not want to deviate from the Constitution, but the government has expressed this in such a way that there is also a bit of uncertainty as to whether the removal of an emergency measure could or could not constitute a restriction on fundamental rights. I'd like to explicate that. I want to make that clear, because you don't decide anything in the explanatory statement to the law. You set something up not in the explanatory statement to the law, but in the law. If the government writes that down, I assume that it is not really its intention that the government should be able to give a positive opinion, let me put it this way. Otherwise, I think we have a very big problem here in this house.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u159	Finally, Mr Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u160	Let us at least note that it is quite extraordinary that a government party is apparently not entirely convinced of what a government, of which it is a part, is doing. Well, it's possible. That's okay; that's not so bad at all. But let us also see what Mrs Van der Graaf is saying here, because that is quite important: the amendment was not adopted, no support for the law. That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u161	Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u162	Mr President, I was waiting for the answer. But of course, that's not up to me. Mrs Van der Graaf carefully chooses her words and says: I appreciate that the cabinet has adapted a number of things, but it is not enough as far as I am concerned. And she says: I think it is necessary that a number of proposals for improvement, which I have sometimes made together with others, should be introduced into the law. That can only mean that you do not support this law if what is necessary does not happen? In other words, you'll vote against this law? That's the only conclusion the Chamber can draw, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u163	I said what I said. I think I'm very clear. The Christian Union found the bill as the government had sent to the Chamber insufficient. The government has made a few adjustments and we consider them to be improvements, but the Christian Union considers it very important that we make a number of adjustments in the legislative proposal to better regulate the situations for which this law can be removed. I believe that this is necessary, also in order to support this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u164	I have indeed listened very carefully, but I feel a little insecure, because Mrs Van der Graaf obviously does not want to say what I think comes entirely automatically from the words she uses. Hence my question: if what you think is necessary does not happen, can you only vote against the law? Of course, you're talking about your own answers, but can you confirm that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u165	I would simply like to say to Mr Van Ojik that we are currently dealing with the legal procedure and a debate in the Chamber. The government has adopted a position, a proposal. We like that. You like that. That's what we're talking about right now. I have made my points, but I have not yet heard any response from the government to this legal treatment. I am also very curious about the government's view on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u166	Well, then, I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u167	I think we should just do the law thing with each other. I said what I said: it is not enough for the Christian Union at the moment. We would like a tightening-up and we have put forward proposals for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u168	Yes, the Minister still has to do it. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u169	Mr. Chairman. I have already explained one amendment. And that does not go away from my speaking time, because I see that this is included in my interruption. Let me now explain the other amendment. That is an amendment that I tabled together with Mr Omtzigt of the CDA. We think it is extremely important to stress that we, as legislators, think carefully about the laws we have adopted with each other. Some laws include additional due diligence requirements, additional safeguards to ensure that if an emergency measure or measure is to be taken, it is done in a careful and proper manner. We've thought this through. When, in the context of the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union, you are faced with a situation where you should deviate or supplement, we think you should first look at that particular law which might include those additional due diligence requirements. Then that law goes first to settle that. If it does not satisfy or is sufficient, then you can only look at article X in this Collecting Law Brexit. I think it's very important to put that order in place. In doing so, the amendment regulates that Article X is simply an exceptional provision to be used. Only if there is an acute emergency situation can I refer to it in the amendment entitled 'introducing unacceptable consequences which make it necessary'. I have set an example of life-threatening situations. That is the example that the Minister always cites. It also stipulates that the government must always state clearly why it is necessary to use this Article, Article X, as the basis for an emergency measure. Mr. Chairman. I come to my final points. Since the referendum in the United Kingdom, the government has had the opportunity to identify the possible legal consequences of a withdrawal from the European Union by the United Kingdom. I would like to ask the Minister, when exactly has these inventories started, what has come out of them and whether he is prepared to share those results with the Chamber. I ask him, also in the context of the legislative process we are currently working on, whether preparations have been made for AMVBs or ministerial arrangements and, if so, in what areas. What steps have been taken since it became clear that the British Parliament might not support the Brexit deal? Have any new insights been acquired as a result? Then I'll close up, Mr. Chairman. The British are perhaps in great uncertainty, there is a great deal of uncertainty and it seems a chaos too, but yet I am impressed by how the British government informs its inhabitants and businesses about the consequences for their specific situation when the United Kingdom leaves the Union, with a deal or without a deal. I believe that we can learn from this in the Netherlands, because we too have many questions for residents and companies. I think the government should do more about this. I would ask the Minister to reflect on this. What opportunities does he see to meet this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u170	Thank you, Mrs Van der Graaf. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Weerdenburg on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u171	Thank you, Mr President. I'm replacing my colleague Vicky Maeijer here tonight. A lot has already been said and many questions have already been asked tonight. The PVV is happy to endorse this, particularly with regard to the Minister's reaction to the devastating criticism of the experts and his answer to the question of why we should not have the risk inventories as Chamber. Mr. Chairman. We normally have a plenary debate in this Chamber at a time when most of the facts and circumstances of a law are clear, when most of the questions about that law and its introduction have been adequately answered by the Chamber. In this respect, the debate we are having tonight on the Brexit Collecting Act is a difficult one. It is a difficult debate, because there are still a lot of uncertainties, uncertainties and possible unforeseen circumstances. It is incredibly difficult to prepare for circumstances that no one can foresee, let alone to have a politically sensible debate on them. Let me first of all mention a point on which there is clarity and on which there is broad agreement in this Chamber. The consequences of a Brexit, with or without a deal, need to be as well absorbed as possible, so that citizens and businesses can feel the least of this. No party, no one in this Chamber wants a chaotic Brexit. This means that we need to assess as best we can how and in what areas the Brexit will affect citizens and businesses and what we can do in terms of legislation to deal with these consequences as effectively as possible. That's what this collectible law is for. But the way in which this cabinet wants to make the collecting law final, the PVV has serious problems with that. Yes, there may be unforeseen circumstances following a Brexit that could lead to unacceptable consequences for which rapid action is needed. Yes, the regular process of legislation or legislative change can be time-consuming. And yes, we all have to come up with something. But making a proposal in 2019 to allow the Minister to make provision for a ministerial arrangement to rule him by decree and to exclude the Chamber is too much for us. In this way, a safety net clause, Article X of this Collecting Act, could soon be used to implement binding EU decisions by ministerial decree in areas where the EU has exclusive competence. That is a direct dictation from Brussels which the Chamber can say something about afterwards. President: no way. We at the PVV are not a crazy stallion, nor a crazy ingrid by the way. This cabinet is Eurofelt to the bone. It takes every opportunity to give Dutch sovereignty away and give the Brussels bureaucrats a free job here. From a cabinet with a prime minister at the helm who is already in mind at his future Brussels job, and a coalition party that prefers to replace the Dutch flag with the blue with the yellow stars today, nothing else can be expected. Mr. Chairman. With this bill, the cabinet is, in our view, abusing the current situation in favour of Brussels. The explanatory memorandum states, inter alia, that Member States may jeopardise the performance of the Union's tasks. Therefore, the Netherlands should not take any measures that could disrupt negotiations between the United Kingdom and the EU. Once again, this legislative proposal makes it clear that we have nothing or hardly anything to say in many policy areas. Brussels rules. Mr. Chairman. It is clear that this collectible law in its present form cannot support the PVV. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u172	Thank you, Mrs Van Weerdenburg. There are two more speakers from the Chamber. Before I give them the floor, I'd like to suspend for two minutes. After the suspension, we will continue with the contributions of Mr Anne Mulder and Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u173	We'll continue with the Brexit Collaboration Act. I give the floor to Mr Anne Mulder on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u174	Mr President, thank you. An important task for politicians, in any country, is to protect and preserve what citizens in a country have built together in terms of security and prosperity. Brexit doesn't help with that, but he's a bastard in those jobs and that prosperity. We say in almost every debate on Brexit that we are concerned with reducing the damage caused by Brexit as much as possible. Because Brexit is the result of the actions of a number of British politicians living in a dream world who think they are economically better off outside the EU. They think that they are going to achieve prosperity in one go outside the EU. Or they have personal ambitions; that all plays a role. What this behavior leads to, we've been able to see. It leads to a Brexit where British politicians don't have a punch line where they want to go. It means for the Dutch Parliament and for our cabinet that we must do as much as possible to limit the damage. We talked about that yesterday. How are the Netherlands' preparations for a so-called no-deal scenario? And today this so-called Collecting Law Brexit, which really nobody is waiting for. But we have no choice, because we have Brexit. Why are we even standing here? We are standing here to make arrangements to resolve unacceptable consequences that we cannot see coming in advance. We don't know exactly which ones these are. The minister said, "That's about man, animal and business." We're doing it on a number of other cases, too. It's in the law: social security, study funding, etc. The most obvious thing, ladies and gentlemen, is the so-called Article X, the authorisation clause. That provision allows the cabinet to intervene in unforeseen, unacceptable cases and to put aside laws, temporarily, with all kinds of safeguards. It's a piece of law you'd rather not use. I haven't heard any enthusiasm about that article of the law. That is why it is good that the cabinet has systematically examined what situations we can foresee, by department. We also spoke to officials in the hearing. We have also asked, and I myself have asked: can you tell me what you have done to provide as much as possible for everything that is unforeseen? We have also drawn attention to this in the written questions. This leads to a number of pages inventory per department of what you need to solve.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u175	I don't think we've had those inventories. Or did Mr. Mulder get it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u176	When we heard about the authorisation clause in this Chamber, we said the same thing in the autumn: we have to sit on it briefly, we have to organise hearings, including with officials. That's when I asked those questions. How are you doing there? How did you do that? I asked questions about this in writing. In a number of A4's, pages long, the minister has shown what departments do. I think that is enough to assume that sufficient inventory has been made. We have also asked the question: what are other countries doing and what can we learn from it? All of us are trying to create guarantees, find certainties, make sure that we have as much image as possible and do everything we can. We are looking at Ireland and other countries. We're trying to get as much on the picture as possible, so you don't need that article, because it's not a pleasant article.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u177	I was talking about the inventories, because you might also be able to get the reasoning from them. We did get some descriptions of what ministries are doing, but we haven't had the inventories. I think that is a problem, because they are actually the starting point: the inventories show that there is still so much unforeseen and we need Article X to do so. But shouldn't we just get those inventories by hand? Because then we have much more insight and we can perform our controlling task well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u178	I heard Mrs Leijten last week. She said, "I want all the reports on paper on paper." If the Minister wants to give it: fine, then we are even better informed. But I can get out of my way with what I've heard so far of inventory.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u179	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u180	Mr. Chairman. We are now having a fundamental discussion on how to solve practical problems. Big words have been used for this article of law, for example by a group the word "dictatorship." If you're asking if this is more like a dictatorship or a democracy, I don't think you've been in a dictatorship. I already quoted the Council of State. It's critical, and rightly so. Many comments have been made on this, but he does say that he can understand that an article X-type article is included in this law. In my view, I also see, and the Minister has to respond to this, that he has taken up the criticism of the Council of State and amended Article X, first on the basis of the Council of State and later on on the basis of the contributions of various political groups. So the original article X has been modified at several times. Sounds like a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u181	There are still a number of proposals that are going to make the article even more sensible, namely to give more power to Parliament. There are a number of amendments. Does Mr Anne Mulder intend to support it? In other words, does he also see that an extra step would be even better?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u182	Yes. Well, wait a minute... I have to say it right. In fact, I see that there could be opportunities to limit that Article X even further, so to speak, to frame it even further. I have read with interest what colleagues have brought in. My group is very sympathetic to this. But one thing: I would like to know from the Minister whether the cabinet can get away with it. In the interrupting debate with Mr Van Raan, I told you that you do not want to limit yourself so far that the Minister no longer has the power of action to do what if something is really going on with people, animals or a company. So I'm sympathetic to it, but I just want to make sure it works. That's why we're standing here, we have to solve these kinds of unforeseen cases. If there is some reassurance there and if the Minister says that it can, then my group will support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u183	Okay, we're gonna wait and see. But I still have a follow-up question. The objections of political groups which have emerged and which have led to amendments are quite basic in nature. They're about ourselves, about our own power. Isn't it a little uncomfortable to ask the power we control if they can get out of their way with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u184	That's... Well, what...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u185	Very clear, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u186	I have already mentioned a number of laws which contain authorisation provisions. I've got a whole list. I've just read where that can be done. Not that you want to do that. I'm watching. Of course, I also have contact with colleagues, such as "what are you thinking about?" I'm worried too. We'll talk about it. But I also keep saying that you don't want it on your conscience that you're getting something out of the law, so in a certain unforeseen situation, which we don't know, something happens that you think after all, "oh, shit, we should have had that part of Article X." That is why I would like to know from the Minister whether he can take responsibility for restricting the article.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u187	Finally, Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u188	Finally, Mr President. Then Mr Anne Mulder should at least agree with me that we need many more concrete examples of the Minister in order to form that opinion. To be honest, my judgment is already quite clear, let me make that quite clear. But I would like to give it to Mr Anne Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u189	You'll end up in a circle. These are unforeseen cases, so you cannot, by definition, give an example of them. After all, it's unforeseen. Otherwise, you'd have anticipated it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u190	Mr Mulder said: it is a discussion of principle. It's about the position of the Chamber. Is she informed afterwards, can she say: it should expire? Can a minority do that? Or do we have a bill of law, just like today, that we can change and then adopt? That's what it's about, that position. Can we get some advice? Can we get interest groups to take a look at VNO-NCW, the Animal Party and the environmental movement and the trade union movement? It always gets better. That can also be a quick process, as we have seen before. How do you assess this fundamental discussion of our position when it comes to the situation of Brexit?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u191	You can have that fundamental discussion. But let's get back to what happened. First there will be an opinion from the Council of State. That does not mean that democracy is being undermined here. The council is critical but says: you can use that provision. Then there will be two professors. One says: is it not against the Constitution? My colleagues are all asking questions in writing. I think: ho, maybe a step back, because does the Council of State have a blind spot, did they not see something, did they miss something? We have normal legislation. We had an input. It was all settled, but right away, head over heels, a little hunted by two professors... I don't blame them for that, because I also used the questions of the professors in my input. But I think we're getting a little crazy. Then there will be great words from Mr Van Ojik, who says that this is more like a dictatorship than a democracy. About a bill! I didn't get it out of the Council of State's advice. In this way, this debate will take a very fundamental turn. Of course we have to have that debate. I've said it, too. If it can be sharper, we have to do it. I have been very critical of this in my written contribution. But in my view this is mainly about solving concrete problems for people, human health, animal safety, entrepreneurs who may be delayed and need urgent action.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u192	Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u193	That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u194	Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u195	And in the ultimate case, we can send this minister away if he makes a pot of it. That's the hallmark of a democracy, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u196	Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u197	...I'm less...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u198	Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u199	Yeah, I'm just saying. Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u200	See who's holding up. Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u201	I started with my question about that process, too. It is not just a question of not saying yes or no afterwards, but of making it better. We can decide very quickly. We can also decide things retroactively. That's why I don't see the need to do that at Brexit, and I don't see any justification for it other than that you'd say: we're simply not ready; we just don't see what it can be about justice and security, what it can be about medicine, and because we don't notice it properly, we're asking you for trust, and at the same time to give away your own influence and power, Room. What do you think it is? Is it that poor inventory or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u202	I'm gonna give you a little longer answer anyway. It's the Brexit. Something is coming to us that we have not seen before: a country is leaving the European Union. Then you have to unravel a lot of things. We're here to limit the damage. Like I said, I'm not waiting for this law at all, but we're forced by Brexit. I agree with Mrs Leijten that there must be as many democratic guarantees as possible. But the reason for this law, I have said three times now, is that you must be able to solve unacceptable problems that you cannot see in advance. That is what we are talking about here; no more and no less.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u203	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u204	But a confident Minister for Foreign Affairs, who exudes that he is tough, who is taking action and who has examined the consequences to the point in all ministries, does not need this article at all. After all, it has no unforeseen situations at all; it has everything in mind. I can't wait to see where I'm going with that. I have also asked for this in my contribution. Is that on the financial front, on the medical front? I can't get the finger out of that. I'm always willing to think about that, but I don't see it. My conclusion is that we're actually not ready, that we don't really know enough and that we think: just to be safe, just to do it by decree. I do not think we should do that, apart from the fact that I, like Mr Mulder, would like to see that we do not have a Brexit without agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u205	You could turn it around. You can say: we've seen and examined everything and we can't see anything, so the chances of it being used are also very small. That's one way of looking at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u206	Mr Mulder referred several times to the opinion of the Council of State. That is right, because it is an important opinion. He said that the Council of State recognises the need for a safety net, but the Council of State also wrote: "It is very undesirable to pay attention to the primacy of the legislator." That is what is written in black and white, and that is about the authorisation to formally derogate from the law by ministerial regulation. The Council of State writes: very undesirable. Then there are a number of improvements, amendments tabled, I have a question to ask Mr Mulder, and then the Minister is asked: can you get out of this? Mrs Ploumen pointed that out as well. I would like to ask Mr Mulder the following. If we both consider this to be so important and if we know that the first proposal was considered very undesirable, should we not submit it to the Council of State again?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u207	The Council of State is critical. I have also mentioned a few times that they understand. The Minister's reaction to the opinion of the Council of State stated that "Article X was amended in accordance with the comments of the Advisory Section of the Council of State." So the Minister did listen to the Council of State and took advantage of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u208	To be sure, I would ask Mr Mulder again, because I think Mrs Ploumen was quite right to ask: are we going to rely on the words of the Minister, whom we must check, or are we going to have it checked by the Council of State? Are you prepared and will you support the request to submit the legislative proposal with the amendments to the Council of State before voting on them?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u209	The Council of State has already given its opinion. I am curious to hear the opinion of the Council of State on Mr Van Ojik's amendment, whether it is democratic, but that aside. We have advice from the Council of State, and that's what we're doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u210	Mr Mulder just said: problems you cannot yet foresee must be solved, and that is why this is necessary. But if you don't look closely, of course, a lot of things are unforeseen. So how can Mr Mulder be so sure that we have looked closely? How can he be so sure that the government has turned everything around three times and that everything has come up when he himself says he doesn't need the inventories?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u211	Thank you for this interruption by the PVV, the party that I am just saying is for next. Well, we've seen what it gets and what it gets us: a law we'd rather not want. Of course, you don't know what you don't know. You're looking, but you never know for sure if you know everything and found everything. You never know for sure, by definition. That's why it's wise to put in such an article that you don't want to use.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u212	I understand that and I agree with Mr Mulder. But don't you want all the information? I just don't understand why he says, on the one hand, "I have enough information and I don't need to have those inventories" while he's now saying, "You can't foresee what you don't know."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u213	We've received a report on the findings of the inventory cabinet. I'll do it with that. Here's what I'm wondering. I know, for example, Mr Graus, who always stands up for the animals. I suppose he doesn't want it on his conscience either, because his group is taking out Article X, perhaps something that we can't foresee is happening to an animal. But that aside. I'm just giving you one more piece of advice, because I heard you were critical of Article X. You might be able to discuss that in your group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u214	I would be happy to submit my amendment to the Council of State for advice. That must, of course, be seen in conjunction. However, I would like to say a few words about the amendments. We are having a debate here now. CDA, D66, ChristenUnion, SP and GroenLinks have all tabled amendments based on the conviction that Parliament's position should be monitored and, where possible, strengthened in relation to the proposal made by the cabinet. We'll find out from the minister whether he thinks that's a good idea or not. We can amend or withdraw an amendment, so for all of us we will of course listen carefully to what the Minister says. But Mr Mulder is hiding behind it. There's a difference. The VVD has not tabled any amendments. Nothing. Does this simply mean that the VVD is fine with the proposal as it stands? Or does Mr Mulder say 'on second thought I think a number of amendments are actually quite worthwhile' and 'unless I hear from the Minister that it is dangerous to adopt them, I am going to support them'? That's a perfectly normal question, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u215	Yeah, that's a fair question. Even before we had the hearing, I saw the bill and the Council of State's advice. The Minister takes over what the Council of State says. The Council of State says: we understand this, but are critical; Minister, adjust this. I can deal with that at the time. I did see the unrest that arose in our Chambers Committee and in our Chamber after we had spoken to two professors. The questions were submitted the same day. I thought: these colleagues are moving fast! But I was satisfied with the bill at the time. I'm very curious. If it can be tightened, I'm very much in favour of it. Our input was also critical of the bill, but I have been convinced that what is there is good. If we can do it any better, we should definitely do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u216	Finally, Mr van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u217	Proposals have been made. I do not want to go into all the proposals, because I have of course heard Mr Mulder's critical questions about my own proposal, but let me say the proposals made by his coalition partners: D66, CDA and Christian Union. In principle, the VVD is in favour of this, because they contribute to strengthening the position of Parliament. Isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u218	Yes. For example, there's that hatchet. Now this law applies for a year. It's gonna be six months. I don't know what happens to drugs. Maybe that can be solved in another way. But what happens if a new medicine is invented in Britain in six months and one day? Can we get that to the Netherlands soon? What if, after six months and one day, if this law has expired, there is a drug on the market in Britain that we would like to have? Is that underneath? I don't know. I therefore want to know whether we can get out of this because I do not want to run a risk with the safety and health of people. Of course, you can also see the examples. It's a search.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u219	You can also have a new medicine from the UK on the market in a year and a day. So, yeah, why don't you just let it exist endlessly? That's what you always have. There was a debate yesterday about the Brexit preparations. Several Members of Parliament expressed their concerns about preparations in different departments. Mr Omtzigt asked about the medical devices. A response to that would come today. That is not possible, writes Minister Bruins, or Hugo de Jonge. I just didn't get the name. But we're still being informed. That sounds to me like: we're not quite prepared yet. And now we're gonna pass that bill on Tuesday, with that decree proposal in it, whether you soften it or not. Even if Mr Bruins finds out what he has to arrange for the no-dealbrexit, the Brexit without appointments, does Mr Mulder think that he should be allowed to invoke that Article X or that he should make an effort to make a law quickly and treat it properly with the Chamber, as it should be? What does Mr Mulder think Mr Bruins should do in such a situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u220	First we have to say: pay attention, Brexit, we don't know it. Then you can't ask a government to respond perfectly to that and do everything exactly? This is a situation that has not happened before, so we are also being hunted down. That is why I have already said: this Brexit, we are not waiting for it. It leads to unraveling all things you didn't foresee. You shouldn't do a nexit either. You can't expect a degree of perfection, that it has to be exactly like this? You can see the cabinet's busy, too. Gradually, you run into something. Mr Bruins prefers to do so in such a way that we do not need to use Article X, so we all agree on the use of that article as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u221	Yes, but this is a concrete situation where information has been asked about the delivery of medical devices and there is no answer to that. By the time it is answered, this law will probably be in force and can also be invoked. Does Mr Mulder think that Mr Bruins can think: well, can I fix that with that decree? Or should he make an effort to bring that to the Chamber as soon as possible in a law? We're actually seeing something unexpected coming here, I'd like to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u222	What does Mrs Leijten think the answer to this question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u223	Well, that's up to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u224	Of course he has to work hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u225	Okay, I think this is an important statement from the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u226	Then we're all in agreement, aren't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u227	I'm happy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u228	Mr. Chairman. It is a balance between democratic control and the resolution of emergencies. We're looking for that balance. Then I come to the European Commission. I have a little more concern about that. The European Commission can make directives that we have to transpose into national law. If the European Commission is not quick with an inventory, we run the risk of confronting us with directives that we may have to transpose quickly into legislation, and that would go through Article X. My appeal to the Minister is to make it clear to the Commission that it must do its inventory properly so that we do not have to transpose the European directives into national law through Article X. Finally. As I said, we are only having this debate because a number of irresponsible politicians are putting prosperity and jobs at risk in their own country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u229	Thank you, Mr. Anne Mulder. Finally, Mr Omtzigt, on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u230	Mr. Chairman. In ancient Rome, in times of great need, a so-called "magister populi" was appointed, a magistrate with far-reaching powers, who was appointed by the Senate in times of need for a period of six months to put things in order. The Minister's bill reminds me a bit of this, although I really am under the impression that our current system is sufficiently resilient and equipped to deal with a no-deal brexit crisis. Control of the government by the Chamber is the foundation of our democratic system and we must ensure it at all times. It is true that the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union is an exceptional situation, and certainly the way it is currently taking place, which is quite chaotic. That is why I would also like to congratulate the government on the measures it is taking to prepare the Netherlands for the Brexit. The government is and will remain responsible for ensuring that the Netherlands suffers as little damage as possible from this Brexit. This responsibility also applies to the Chamber, which I feel on a daily basis, and I am convinced that this also applies to my colleagues. That is precisely why we must respect democratic processes. Part of these preparations is the creation of a legal backup, which is in the collective law that we are discussing here today. The first version of the bill, and in particular Article X, I have called irresponsible. And I'm not alone in that. In fact, they were quite shocked. This concern was also expressed in the opinion of the Council of State. During the round table on the bill and the advice requested by the Chamber of a number of professors, this part of the bill was actually removed. Fortunately, the government has also heard this criticism. In the first letter of amendment, the Minister chose to give an AMvB who was beaten here two weeks before the Chamber could stop the arrangement even before it entered into force, if it wished. That is why the legal provision for that part is secured. We, as legislators, must not forget the First Chamber, because it can simply stop doing so at that time. That leaves the ministerial arrangement. This law allows you to deviate from the law by ministerial regulation. Now that is common in a few laws, but here the clause on delegation is quite broad. It can deviate from any law. That's not in the law anywhere else. I am therefore pleased that the Minister has issued a letter of amendment in which he has made it clear that there is an immediate follow-up. This means that the ministerial arrangement is sent to the Chamber and that the Chamber can say for two weeks: withdraw it immediately. That is not quite enough for us. That is why we have tabled or submitted three amendments. With the first amendment we have tabled, we are setting deadlines. Now you will say: 'immediately' is clear. "As soon as possible" was also clear at the Ukraine referendum, until we didn't get out politically and needed more than a year for it. I therefore thought it wise to say that by "immediately" we mean publication and send it to the Chamber and that the Chamber will have two weeks to assess the scheme. If the Chamber rejects her, she must be withdrawn within one week. Furthermore, such a provision should be properly implemented, and that means that another legal provision should be made within ten weeks if it deviates from the law. If there is no deviation from the law, the problem is, of course, much less. Then it's just an implementing act. There's one more exception. This is a bit technical, but I will take a look at Mrs Leijten, because it concerns precisely the situation she raised yesterday in the AO on Brexit. It is the following exception: if it is necessary to treat Great Britain temporarily as an EU Member State in the context of the transition, then we do not mind a deviation from the law, and then we feel that we need less guarantees. Because we can imagine that we are already doing it in the case of driving licences; then we are doing it legally, fifteen months later, that there may be other arrangements whereby you temporarily solve the problem by seeing Britain as a member of the EU for a while. I do not think that this is such a derogation from the rule of law that the Chamber should be informed immediately and the whole circus should operate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u231	Frankly, I also see no objection to being informed immediately. Because it could still be an objection to doing so. Anyway, I actually have another question. All these safeguards that are now being used do not change the fact that we do get decrees. We might be able to send them back or move them in, but we can't talk about that. We have no influence on the decision. We can't make it better. We can't weigh it for society. Does the CDA think that's desirable? Because that is precisely the co-legislative role of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u232	In the formal sense, it is true that a ministerial arrangement can only be rejected or adopted. By the way, this front was not there until about six years ago I put such a provision in the law, because we don't normally see them at all. Now we see these special ministerial arrangements and we have the opportunity to reject them. I can imagine situations where the Chamber rejects a ministerial arrangement and says to the government: if you do so, we would not reject it. This gives you the de facto opportunity to say to the government: "You may do so, but please withdraw this ministerial decision. And if you do it in a different way, then we probably won't object." Then she'll have a week to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u233	Yeah, and then she might as well put forward a bill that week. Then it doesn't have to be a ministerial arrangement. Then there's no need. That's what I find a little crazy about this. We are repairing something for situations where they "wouldn't want to use this because we are so well prepared, but you never know." But we're going down that slide. We'll give something away. And in a next crisis or exceptional situation, I do know what the government says: "Yes, you liked that in the Brexit too, so don't bother now. Hoppa, we can do that without a parliamentary process." So I'm actually a little disappointed by Mr Omtzigt that he's changing it cosmetically, but the principle that we can't talk and we can't write along with a proposal is our legislative task, duty and function when it comes to control put out of operation. But apart from that, here's the thing. If all the amendments that are now before us are necessary, Mrs van der Graaf said: 'It is not enough for me now'.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u234	Mr President, I think I hear about ten questions in one interruption. It's kind of hard to respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u235	It's my last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u236	In future, it will be very useful if you only ask one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u237	That would be so nice! If Mrs Leijten calls it 'cosmetic' that instead of what was the first time, namely that these AMvBs and ministerial arrangements could be adopted without the intervention of the Chamber, now a red button is being put down that allows the Chamber to reject them both, then all the other amendments from colleagues here, such as Mr Van Ojik's, are cosmetic, and then we all have cosmetic things here. It's essential. It makes the essential difference, as Mrs Leijten all thinks. The AMvB is still very simple, because with the AMvB: you get it and you reject it, then it never goes in. So why not a co-legislator? Then you're a full co-legislator. "You can't change it," says Mrs Leijten outside the microphone. There is not a single AMvB for which there is an amending power here. That is the essence of a general measure of governance. That's lower laws and regulations...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u238	But then it's issued within the power of the law...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u239	Wait a minute, Mrs. Leijten. Finish your sentence, Mr. Ommzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u240	There is no AMvB you can change. But if you reject the AMvB via the front, you can even give it to the government: if that's how you do it, we'll do it. With that, you have the de facto opportunity to change it as well. Then I'll get to the ministerial arrangement. Moreover, I had only explained the first amendment. That is indeed about the afterhang: we can reject it and then it must be withdrawn immediately. Of course, there is also the amendment I tabled together with the Christian Union. That amendment provides that it should only be allowed if it cannot be done in any other way and is a life-threatening situation for humans or animals. There must also be justification for why this is so. In doing so, we have put in place quite a number of safeguards. Secondly, Mrs Leijten is making a bit of a caricature of the legislative process here. Under normal circumstances, you can call the entire cabinet together. I think I've seen an exception once. That was during the banking crisis, for the rapid nationalisation of large banks. But under normal circumstances, the legislative cycle lasts for several months. You have to make a law. It must then go to the official portal, then to the sub-Council, then to the Council of Ministers and formally to the Council of State. All this is clearly in the Constitution. So the idea that you can make a law here in a week is not true. Mrs Leijten knows that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u241	During the negotiations of this very cozy government, we passed a law in 24 hours. It's possible. And the moment you make a ministerial arrangement, you can make a law out of it. The government can decide by decree: o, you can still press an emergency button, but then you are responsible for the consequences. 'Cause that's how it's gonna be. Then we will not dare to do so, or a majority will no longer dare to do so. But the essence isn't that we get an emergency button. The essence is that with a ministerial regulation or general measure of governance, which is otherwise part of a law for the practical implementation or repairs of the relevant bill, you can make legislative proposals without democratic process. That is quite different from the constitutional agreements we have now. That's the essence. But I had another question. You've answered a lot of questions, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u242	Mrs Leijten, no speeches. Really just the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u243	What does the CDA do if the amendments are not adopted?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u244	That is a very specific question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u245	What the Christian Union said was very clear: it is now insufficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u246	Yeah, that's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u247	Is it enough for you if these amendments are not adopted?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u248	As a legislator, I am doing my best to come up with a much better legislative proposal. The second question, which the opposition constantly asks, is: do you vote in favour or do you vote against? I choose to do my best to make good laws. I hear Mrs Leijten saying that we all do, but I still have to see who is tabling three amendments to a particular article that they do not approve of. I hope to gain support for it. I wish colleagues would say, "Why don't you do it like that?" Then it is said immediately: when do you vote in favour, when do you vote against? That's the eternal thing here. Can a motion of censure be tabled or not? Can I just be decent in my legislative process? I think that's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u249	Mr. Van Raan, were you planning on asking a short question as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u250	Yes, as a result of Mrs Leijten's introduction, which was not followed by a question, I shall ask it. Mrs Leijten and I both acknowledge it, but does Mr Omtzig also recognise the fundamental point of principle that Mrs Leijten just outlined?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u251	Do you remember?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u252	Well, on what part of the question? Because I have heard a lot of points that she considers fundamental.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u253	That an AMvB or ministerial arrangement is intended as a material interpretation of a law in a formal sense. This is because the reversal is now taking place that an AMvB or ministerial regime can be legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u254	I understand that, but that is why I consider it so important in the AMvB that it can already be asked not to enter into force until it has been submitted here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u255	Mr Omtzigt therefore acknowledged the principle of principle. That was the question. And that's true. Right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u256	Just let me finish. You have understood my criticism of this law. I was not very happy with either the Brexit or the authorisation provisions. However, I have asked a number of very fundamental questions. There will be a few more shortly, so just wait and see what else I'm going to ask Minister Blok tonight. Since you actually asked Mr Verhoeven a question about my amendment, I would also like to explain it. When it comes to chickens: if they do not comply with European food quality standards in any other way, so if they do other things, the Netherlands is not even entitled to make an exception under applicable European law. The Netherlands would then be in breach of European law at the time of such a ministerial arrangement and then the European Commission, I think, would also start an intergroup procedure. I therefore believe that such situations will not actually occur in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u257	Finally, Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u258	I shall then take the first step towards responding to the question I asked Mr Verhoeven. That is exactly what is happening. At the moment when you have that ministerial equivalence, that the amendment, as it were, will enter into force, so if there is equalization or equal treatment, there is nothing going on. It is precisely a question of changing a product, a service or something else over time, which means that it is no longer the same for the EU. Then you automatically slide into exactly the situation you just described, in which the EU will condemn the Netherlands because it was the same at the beginning of the decision, but not a year later. That's exactly the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u259	But I expect that when it comes to internal product and service standards, it cannot be used to deviate from that. It is not for nothing that this law is constantly about things like the recognition of driving licences, tax systems, the recognition of foreign companies. That's what the Netherlands is about. But when we talk about product standards, it is not legal to bring such products on the European market. So that will be withdrawn by means of an intergroup procedure. I think, quite frankly, that the English know this very well and that they will voluntarily join the whole of European legislation on their exports with chicken meat and with all the other product standards for years. I can tell you that now. They will not deviate from that, because if they do, they will lose access to the European market. And that's about the last thing they want there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u260	Mr Omtzigt reacted a bit burnt when Mrs Leijten asked: how are you going to vote if your amendments are not adopted? He said the opposition has been asking that all night. But that is because of the words used by spokesmen of the coalition. They say that adjustments are necessary. Mrs Van der Graaf said that. They say that the law needs to be improved, that additional safeguards must be put in place. Those last words were used by Mr Omtzigt himself. If you use that kind of harsh words when tabling amendments from the coalition it is of course fine that that happens. You should not be surprised, let alone pecked, when asked from the opposition: gosh, does that sometimes mean that you are against the law if those safeguards, necessary adjustments and improvements do not take place? That's crazy, isn't it? You say that I am only working on improving legislation. We all are.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u261	Actually, that was more of a general remark...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u262	Mr President, with permission. But Mr Omtzigt plays the ball back and says: why do you ask such silly questions? Mrs Leijten speaks for herself, but I say that is because of the words you use.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u263	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u264	Since we use those words, I'm putting proposals on the table to make those laws better than they are now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u265	Much better even!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u266	Yes, absolutely!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u267	Carry on, Mr. Ommzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u268	I'm sure of it. And I hope to get support for that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u269	Mr President, let me be clear. Mr Omtzigt says: I hope to get support for that. On Mr Verhoeven's question, I have already said that this support will come from my group. So I have no use for cards in my pocket. I hope he will support my amendment, because I have just explained to him what a good, innovative idea that is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u270	I'm not quite sure yet. I am also very curious about the new GroenLinks/D66 group, where this law will be dealt with jointly next Tuesday. No, look, then I can easily say to the question that almost 75 votes are already available. And maybe the VVD will join us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u271	They don't know yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u272	We'll see about that. I'm just waiting for the Minister's answer. I find it interesting that in the first period, before you have heard the government at all, you want to draw conclusions on how we deal with the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u273	The discussion has just taken place.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u274	Everyone is, of course, entitled to their own opinion...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u275	Oh, thank you. That's kind of nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u276	...even if it's a bit of a weird opinion. But you cannot ask me if I support your amendment, and then, if I ask what it would mean if the amendments were not supported, say: but we should not do so in the first period. I am also asked what I think of your amendments. I'll answer that honestly. And then we ask Mr Omtzigt what it means if his amendments are not adopted, and he says: I can't say anything about that yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u277	There is a difference between the amendments and the final judgment on the law. Moreover, should Mr Van Ojik be interested, I am inclined not to support his amendment at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u278	"I already have nearly 75 seats, so what are you giving me a hard time about?" I think that is actually a bit of an arrogant remark. We're all trying to make the law better. In my opinion, Article X can come out. I do not even ask what Mr Omtzigt thinks, because he thinks the emergency button is essential, but I say: you should not change the procedure. Fine, you can disagree on that. But you say: well, the question you are asking is irrelevant, because I have almost a majority anyway. I don't think that's very neat.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u279	No. That was exactly what I wouldn't do, because I thought it was too easy. I would like to be quoted correctly by Mrs Leijten, even when I am standing here. It would adorn her. I said exactly the opposite.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u280	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u281	If I've misunderstood, I'm sorry. However, the question we are asking is logical, but Mr Van Ojik has already explained it in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u282	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u283	This point does not need to be repeated. The same goes for the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u284	I have explained in detail to Mr Van Ojik that...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u285	But that doesn't need to be repeated.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u286	... I strongly support, both in the coalition and in the opposition, all the minority rights that exist in the Chamber as well as the right to ask. So I never walk in here, like: there are 76 seats, so we don't have to see what the rest of it thinks. You'll never catch me on that. You can also see this as a commitment towards Mr Van Ojik. If a number of seats are needed to be able to ask questions at some point or to see in a quick procedure whether questions can be asked about a particular ministerial arrangement, then the CDA is always willing to make that possible. If the government chooses this special procedure, it must always be possible to clarify the government. So I'm talking about that kind of veil and that clarification. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the question of when you can use Article X. That's only very rare. The EU has already published more than a dozen delegated legislative acts in draft form, which have been known since the end of December. I'm assuming this goat path isn't being used for this. I asked this question yesterday and I expect a clear answer today. Also in the note on the report, the Minister insists that he does not know what unexpected situations will arise. That's worrying. I'm asking the Minister to indicate what situations he's expecting. Then I come to EU emergency legislation. The future relationship between the Netherlands and the UK is largely within the competences of the European Union. These powers of the EU are defined by treaties. Decisions shall be taken by normal qualified procedure in the Council and through the European Parliament. This raises questions which have also been addressed in the note on the report. How are the emergency procedures developed at EU level? How is the European democratic control mechanism organised? Normally, the European Parliament is responsible, but European legislative processes take months, often even years. Does the European Commission also have a kind of Article X for drafting European decrees? How will this be checked afterwards? What role do national parliaments play if Europe were to adopt a sort of European emergency regulation? Mrs Van Weerdenburg hinted at that as well. According to the Minister, urgent situations will arise, requiring the urgent implementation of European legislation drawn up with European urgency procedures in the Netherlands. Article X is also meant for this purpose, the Minister states. Can he give an example of such a situation? Because we don't see that immediately. If he can do that, what's the point of going out of this situation? The note also states that the Ministry of Infrastructure and Water Management is in particular subject to such situations where the EU has exclusive competence. Is the EU sufficiently prepared in the field of IenW, according to the Minister? At the time of writing the note, that was apparently not the case. How does the Minister himself control the preparation of European institutions? Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the inter-departmental measures. The Brexit hits the whole economy. In many cases, therefore, there are several responsible ministries or institutions. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs speaks for a reason of the coordinating role it plays. In the case of inter-departmental measures, how is it decided on, for example, a ministerial arrangement or an AMvB? Will it always be initiated from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? Or can anyone come up with that? When will that be discussed? Do we have a weekly or daily ministerial council in the days after the Brexit? So I would like a process chart of how the measures are defined, initiated and agreed. This month, the Dutch government is practicing a no-deal scenario. Can the Minister give a report on the crisis exercise that took place this month? Does the Minister expect further amendments to this law to be made to this exercise? He would also make a phone call to the mayors of Amsterdam, Rotterdam and Haarlemmermeer. What did that get you about this joint exercise? In the no-deal scenario, the WTO trade agreements are the last safety net. Can the Minister indicate the areas in which the WTO does not offer a safety net and therefore we must fall back on other agreements? Can the Minister indicate how contacts between the EU and the UK are being developed in the case of no deal? Will there not be further negotiations in the first instance and will there be fora in which certain matters are decided? In this case, I would like to mention the letter on fishing that we received today. It states that it is an exclusive competence, but I have read the European Commission's proposals, which were published yesterday, so that bilateral agreements can be made with the UK. This is contrary to the exclusive competence of the European Union. Is it one truth or the other? Are we going to negotiate bilaterally with the UK to keep access, in short, to the Scottish fishing grounds? 'Cause that's what it's about. How's that process gonna go? I was also somewhat surprised at what the European Commission was proposing. Then there are a few questions that I'm just passing by. The first one is about driving licences. British driving licences would immediately cease to be valid at a hard Brexit. They are now valid for 15 months and we have seen a number of answers from the Minister today. It is not yet clear whether the Belgians are doing exactly the same. Then the following is not clear to me from the answers. Suppose an Englishman living in Tilburg has a British driver's license. He drives to The Hague; no problem. He's under arrest, but can show his British driver's license. That's still in force for another 15 months. Then he drives to Brussels, or Antwerp, where he wants to shop. He's showing his British driver's license. How can he say: if I lived in Belgium, it would not be valid, but now that I live in the Netherlands, is it valid? Can you imagine? I think it means that he can't drive to Brussels, or to Antwerp. Secondly, it says that such a country may also apply for an international driving licence. Yeah, but that's an international English driver's license. It is the translation from English that comes with it. Would it not be useful to regulate this type of extension at European level? That would be a big deal. However, I am glad that this inspection is finally no longer valid for the English. I also exchanged a British driver's license for a Dutch driver's license myself. It means I get to drive small vans, too. You can't do that with a Dutch driver's license. It was pretty bizarre that as a 20-year-old, when I wanted to switch it, I had to call several GPs. No one wanted to judge me for an hour to see if I was physically fit to drive a car. That was kind of the consequence of switching a driver's license. I can understand that exception from the letter of amendment. The exception from the letter of amendment that I cannot understand is that at the moment a lot of Dutch truck drivers have asked for their license to be renewed, but by mess with the CBR that is also the reason that we postpone it fifteen months at home because they do not have a Dutch driver's license. So soon we will have the special situation that because of implementation problems British drivers in the Netherlands are allowed to drive an invalid driver's license, while Dutch truck drivers who have applied in time are stuck at home as it is a mess at the CBR. Would the government like to see if it would also take emergency measures for the second group? They are just Dutch nationals who have a right to do so. Mr. Chairman. Then the logistics at the ferry locations. What are the costs of adjusting the parking facilities of the six ferry locations and where will they lie? In the case of customs, it is an essential part of the emergency provision. For a hard Brexit 928 customs officers are needed and only half and perhaps less is operational on Brexit day. We said that a year ago, and the Prime Minister said there will be no chaos. Take it from me: we recorded that video. The great risk we see is that Dutch companies are not sufficiently prepared, that only half of the customs officers are available and that the port of Rotterdam is stalled. That is something that must be prevented at all times.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u287	I would like to interrupt Mr Omtzigt's list of practical questions, which are, by the way, extremely relevant, to ask him about his view of my practical point: the possibility of dual nationality. Given his understanding of the extent of the problem that may arise, could Mr Omtzigt support my appeal to the Minister to make this possible for the Dutch in Great Britain and the other way around?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u288	In the coalition agreement, we have deliberately chosen to be very cautious with the extension of double nationality. I can imagine that, if it does not go smoothly, the government will allow a somewhat longer transitional period, just as in the case of driving licences, even here in the case of applications, longer deadlines. From allowing multiple double nationalities, I can't see the impact right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u289	That is a so-called known unknown, but the chaos that Mr Omtzigt provides at the border naturally also occurs in people's lives. It is a rather limited group of people, but the consequences and impact are enormous. Think about it again in the interest of those Dutch who want to protect you with me in this whole Brexit process.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u290	That is why I say: if certain deadlines are to be extended there too, if there is to be some certainty, then I am certainly open to that, but I do not know whether that should immediately lead to double nationality. I've lived in England myself for years, and I certainly understand the problems that are attached to this. There were times when I thought I'd live there forever. Mr. Chairman. I was at Customs. Fortunately, this week, the government is sending 35,000 letters to SME entrepreneurs who export to the UK, but nowhere else outside the customs union. I'd say full speed ahead with that exercise. I expect on Brexit day that all these transport flows cannot be rerouted in one go, that there are several companies that don't know what to do, that the Tax Phone is flattened, that is unfortunately also the case on days when there is no Brexit and that we get all kinds of traffic jams that we really don't want. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll get to the tools and the meds. Yesterday some answers were received about the medicines, but today the letter came that we are not yet getting any answers about the devices. As you can see, I come to fishing without answers, I come to the tools without answers, I come to education where it is not quite clear to me. So there's still a lot of blurring about me at a hard Brexit. About the tools is said: care institutions, you know what, you have to build up all the resources yourself. If all European regions were to say that everything imported from England should be kept in stock, the British factories would not even be able to produce it. These are not latex gloves or bandages, of which there will also be factories in the Netherlands and Germany, but they are highly specialised things that can make the difference between life and death. And then we're not gonna recognize them from Brexit Day at once, and we don't have a solution for that yet? The CDA Group finds that impossible. She also urgently asks what the Minister of Health is going to do to ensure that we continue to recognise each other's resources and medicines in a decent way. We're not gonna be surprised by this after the Brexit, are we? I hope that the Minister will now give up this appeal and no longer say that it is up to the hospitals or nursing homes that they have not stored enough. It is up to the governments; they must recognize each other in this matter. That is why we would really like to have a solution. Mr. Chairman. Then education. For example, the answers to the Brexit scenario per plan state that a solution must be found for tuition fees and for foreign students in education per AMvB. This is exactly an example of what citizens want to know about later. If you are a British student at a Dutch university, you pay Dutch tuition fees. You are an EU citizen. The moment you get out, you'd like to know if there's a right of transition or not. And in the pieces we get, it doesn't say whether there's a right of transition or not. This can just be very important for students to decide whether they will continue to study here or register again next year. That is not weird at all, because if you have to pay many thousands of euros extra, that is a relevant question, whether you think politically or not that an exception should be made. That is precisely why we miss the Brexit scenarios per department. Both the United Kingdom and the EU have published over a thousand pages with very detailed information. And what does the Dutch government do? Every time we ask Parliament questions and we ask for letters. We'll get a list of 50 letters, all with cuts. That is not an overview from which one of us can become wise, let alone a citizen. And then you will say: we do not want to talk about all these details here. That's right. I'm only going to talk about details when we find something or when citizens or a company tell me, "Hey, there's a problem. Therefore, do as the EU, do as the UK, publish what you intend. This will enable people to prepare themselves and we, as parliamentarians, can also look at: boy, perhaps there is still a need for clarification. I'm not ruling out that everything isn't perfect. Because it's not in my own office either. This systematic analysis now seems to be a bit fragmented and fragmented. It comes in at all times. OCW says "we did a comprehensive analysis" and we do get a rule or ten from OCW, the Ministry of Education. But there's really more going on with research funds and college members. College members are the most obvious example; I have just mentioned it. Come on! Then the live animal inspection post. We are very concerned about the absence of the inspection post. Now it looks like the Ministry is pointing to the private sector and vice versa. And that private sector of course thinks: we are not sure if there will be a hard Brexit or who is responsible in that private sector. And when the time comes, no animals can be imported or get stuck on the quay and we have to use Article X at once. Come on, this is foreseeable! So we are really calling on the Minister to take an initiative to create, together with the private sector, a place where there is an emergency facility for that inspection when there would be a hard Brexit. If someone wants to import a horse from Britain to the Netherlands or vice versa, they should be able to do so. I can't imagine there's nothing at all. The deadline for application is 15 February in the European Union and urgent action is therefore needed here. Mr. Chairman. The CDA Group regrets the Brexit. We all really benefit from avoiding a no-deal scenario. I've said it before: a hard Brexit can. It's not my preference, but it's possible. But if you choose a hard Brexit, it needs to be properly prepared. It would truly adorn the British if... I say this in the same way as my colleague Ploumen of the PvdA and her declaration of love to the British; I am anglophile and I do not have to do that anymore. I thought it was an honest country, but make a decision. Help us. If a decision is taken by the United Kingdom, it will be much easier for the government and for us to make those preparations. Mr. Chairman. And one more thing about the possibility that it's all going to be orderly. If it's all going in order, why is Article X still needed in the law at the time? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u291	Thank you, Mr. Ommzigt. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I shall suspend the sitting until 8.15 p.m. Then the Minister will have the opportunity to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u292	We will continue the debate on the Brexit Collecting Act and we have arrived at the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u293	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. All of us would have preferred not to stand and sit here tonight. I don't know about the PVV, but in fact everyone agrees that we would rather not have had that Brexit. But we must respect the outcome of the referendum in the United Kingdom and therefore prepare ourselves for that Brexit. Even after the vote in the House of Commons, which rejected the exit agreement that was in place, the Dutch Government's full commitment to reaching a negotiated Brexit continues. That gives the most certainty to all concerned: the people who live there, the British who live here and entrepreneurs. It is not yet 29 March, so we use the remaining time with full commitment. At the same time, it is inevitable that we are also preparing for a hard Brexit. We do this by thinking about what needs to be done at the same time in all areas and with all kinds of stakeholders, co-governments, companies, industry organisations and implementation organisations, but also by submitting regulations to you where necessary. That is what we are talking about here, about regulations that are or may be necessary in the case of such a Brexit. I will, of course, deal with all the questions, but the most striking question is whether a safety net provision is needed. That's the article X in this law. That Article X is, in fact, also based on the reasoning that I would prefer that we do not need it at all. Now that there has been a detailed explanation in the Law.................................................................................................................................................................. That is also part of the conditions we have set. That is not unique, by the way. Other far-reaching changes to the system have also been the subject of regular legislation containing such a safety net provision. The Council of State also points out this in the opinion. It also mentions a number of examples. In the written round of questions, the Chamber also asked whether there are other examples of large, complex laws with a safety net clause. There are a lot of them. In a previous role, I was allowed to deal with the House Act with you. I believe that Mr Verhoeven and Mr Bishop of the present Members of Parliament were there. It also contained such a safety net clause. That is a very large and very complex law. I believe that we did not talk for a second about the safety net clause, because everyone understood that it might be necessary for such a complex change. During the previous cabinet period, there was also the law on the increase in the age of AOW and the age of pensions, a law dealt with by Mr Klijnsma. It had a similar provision. Previous Cabinets of all kinds of different colours and cut have always included safety provisions in complex legislation, such as on social security, care and also the administrative design of the Kingdom, for unforeseen circumstances which, as the word "unforeseen" says, cannot be filled in. I was asked whether I could mention the situations that would then arise. No, because for those situations, you've already indicated in the law what measures you're taking. There are dozens of laws in which Chamber and Government agreed that you need such an article for unforeseen circumstances. So that tradition also fits this article. Again, I hope I don't have to use it. However, history teaches that of the laws that contain such an article, which has been applied in a single case. I do not think that the Chamber has ever considered that the minister in question should resign afterwards, but that instrument has always been available to the Chamber and it can do so now. But it is a well-known type of article that has been used in the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u294	I see that Mrs Leijten wants to ask a question. I will give you the floor in a moment, Mrs Leijten, but first I would like to hear from the Minister how he is building up his speech this evening. Was this some kind of introduction?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u295	Well, this actually went to the most important question that has been asked. I would first like to comment on Article X. Then I will answer several other questions. Finally, I would like to comment on the amendments that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u296	In the previous period, I myself dealt with large laws, such as laws on care, on youth care, around the Wmo. In fact, there were possibilities for a further ministerial arrangement on articles if necessary, or indeed for unforeseen situations. But we knew, for example: this concerns the Social Support Act and it looks at that social support. We don't know that now. We don't know what it's about right now. Does it look on the Wmo, sees it on the housing, sees it on financial matters? Of course, that's really different.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u297	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u298	Well, let's say you're filing a law in a policy area saying, for example, I want to have a possibility on finance. Then we all say here: okay, but then explain why that is necessary in terms of finance. And then it's within that framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u299	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u300	And that's really different here, and I think it's new in that sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u301	How broad the scope of such a safety net article is, of course, depends on the width of the law on which the safety net article depends. I call the Housing Act because you have to forgive me for feeling very involved. Then a very big law was dealt with. By its very nature, there is a fairly broad safety net article in it, but it did relate specifically to the social rental sector; Mrs Leijten is right about that. A once again broader safety net article was part of the Wet structure execution organization work and income. This included the amendment of a large number of social laws and the establishment of a new organisation, the UWV. So you see that the safety net article refers to a large number of laws. In addition, the safety net article became wider in the new administrative design of the Kingdom, as such an administrative design covered an even wider range of policy areas and measures. So from the kind of law follows how wide the safety net article can be.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u302	Yeah, but it can watch for anything now. It's also about "unforeseen." I was just asking: if you can already foresee that with the medical devices we have a problem with a Brexit without divorce, can from next week when the bill is passed, Mr. Bruins think: Oh, do I do that in the easy way? Or is he then obliged to do it as much as possible according to the law and transparently with the Chamber? You create something that you say we want to use as little as possible, but it does give you those resources. Does the Minister see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u303	A safety net article is always about "unforeseen." Also with a law on the housing market or around care, you try to map out what can happen. But in spite of all this careful pre-work on these major changes, it was often years ago that in all these cases there was a sense that a situation could arise which is not foreseen and which nevertheless calls for immediate action. So the unforeseen isn't new. Again, the breadth of such an article depends on the area covered by such a law. And indeed, the Brexit can hit a lot of ground. You also mentioned the areas this evening. This goes from study to businessmen, social security, driving licences, right of residence. A large part of the situations we can foresee and that is why we call them. But we can only conclude that such a Brexit is very comprehensive, so that an emergency provision will be comprehensive.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u304	It is good that the Minister also explains that there are all kinds of laws with a safety net clause, which I very much appreciate. But how often has it happened that the Council of State has said about such a law that a provision of it is very undesirable? And how many times has it happened that a government party itself submits an amendment that says that it cannot violate the Constitution? How many times has that occurred in all those examples of safety net laws the Minister mentioned?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u305	It is good that Mr Van Raan refers to the opinion of the Council of State, because, of course, I have read that very well and I have partly amended the legislative proposal on the basis of that. However, the Council of State says: "In view of the exceptional nature of the Brexit, the Section considers that a broad safety net provision such as this one is necessary."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u306	That's right. Then we both have a quote from the same opinion of the Council of State, because that same opinion of the Council of State also contains, precisely on Article X, the meaning: "An authorisation to depart from the law in a formal sense by ministerial regulation', et cetera et cetera, "is highly unusual and, given the primacy of the legislator, very undesirable'. So the question is not what is in it, because we agree on that; we can read that. How many times has it happened in all those laws that have a safety net regime that the Council of State says "very undesirable" and that a government party itself is tabling an amendment that must be sure, because they are apparently not sure that the law in question is not affecting the Constitution? How many times has that happened? That's actually a very simple question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u307	I have a very simple question for Mr Van Raan. Would he also like to read the sentence after "very undesirable"?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u308	Mr Van Raan has the opinion with him, so that is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u309	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I'd like to do that, but I don't have that on me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u310	Shall I read it to you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u311	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u312	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u313	I'll repeat "very undesirable." After that, the Council of State says: "However, the partly unpredictable consequences of the Brexit mean that it may be necessary to react with regulation very quickly in circumstances. In that very special situation, the use of a ministerial arrangement derogating from the law may be justified in a formal sense." So it would be purely in the debate not to end where Mr Van Raan did, but to read the whole passage.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u314	Mr Van Raan, finally on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u315	Granted, quite true, and thank you for the addition. The question remains: how often has it occurred in this series of collective laws that the Council of State has found it necessary to shape this opinion, the comprehensive opinion, in this way, and that amendments have been tabled to ensure that the Constitution is not affected? That was the question, and I can't really get an answer to that. Thanks to the Minister for the supplement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u316	Let us not fool each other: that supplement was crucial. If the Council of State is very negative, then the opinion of the Council of State is: we advise the government not to send the law. And the Council of State didn't do that. You are now asking me how often the Council of State's opinion is submitted or how often the Chamber makes an amendment. Of course, I don't have any lists of that. But we know very well what operative documents the Council of State can give and the operative part here is not that the law cannot be filed. We've all been able to read the whole sentence. The Council of State not only says that it is unusual, but also that it is justified in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u317	Mr. Van Raan, I think this is clear. A point of order from Mr Verhoeven? I don't know what to do with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u318	Yes, I did.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u319	Tell me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u320	I understand what Mr Van Raan is saying: the coalition has also tabled amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u321	But this is not a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u322	Yes, this is a point of order. The point of order is that we are all the House of Representatives. All 150 MPs have the responsibility to control the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u323	All right, thank you, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u324	And a lot of laws also have amendments tabled by the coalition, so it's not that special. And this amendment of ours is not meant to...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u325	But this is not a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u326	Yes!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u327	No!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u328	Because he says that the amendment was tabled to save the Constitution. That's not the issue at all. We want to make the law better, and we have done so through the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u329	Okay, thank you. That is what you said in your speech. I'm going to see Mr Van Ojik. It was a general remark. We can respond endlessly to that, but everyone has the right to table amendments. Right? 150 members. Mr. Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u330	Mr President, I hope we are not going to beat each other up all evening with quotes from the Council of State's opinion. It does have all kinds of things in it. What the Minister says is in it and what Mr Van Raan says is in it. But I think we might agree on the fact that the Council of State's opinion had a critical tone and certainly does not say that you should never submit such a law as the Minister has submitted, but says that if you do then you must have a coherent analysis, you must have a coherent approach and make it clear when you want to apply it or not. They're just very critical about that. I mean, we've all been able to read that. After that, the cabinet made a number of adjustments. My question, which I believe I have also asked in the first period, although I am not sure whether I came to all my questions, is: would it not be a good idea to ask the Council of State again after such an adjustment operation "what is the situation with regard to your criticism, do you think it is much better now or is it still..."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u331	That question was asked in the first place.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u332	Oh, yeah, I did.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u333	Yes. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u334	We also have extensive experience of this, of course, both the Chamber and the Cabinet. This was not a council of state advice that was destructive. It was: adjust it. That's what I did. After that, it is not customary for the government to send it to the Council of State again. After all, the advice was not heavy enough for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u335	Well, everything in this debate is not common. The reason for the debate is not customary, the instruments that the cabinet is going to use are not customary and some of the amendments we are tabling are for the first time and not usual. Maybe we're looking for a little new ground. It is a critical opinion of the Council of State. It is a very fundamental and fundamental point, namely the relationship between parliament and government. The cabinet has taken the criticism seriously and has made a number of adjustments. It would make a lot of sense to say to the Council of State: gosh, is that better?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u336	I do not agree that it would make sense, because the operative part of the Council of State is not so heavy that there would be reason for it. Then you will get a new constitutional question: should laws which have a operative part of the Council of State that is not very heavy follow a second opinion of the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u337	Mr President, the one-to-one category! "That's not very heavy." That is the kind of nonchalance I think we should not have in this debate. It was the one-after-heaviest category. The heaviest one, I suppose, is a red light: don't. It was just underneath. So it was heavy, category 4.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u338	Then I agree with Mr Van Ojik. However, it remains for me to say that where you are being treated seriously with the opinion of the Council of State, which Mr Van Ojik also gives to Mr Van Ojik, you should not introduce a whole new procedure whereby you are always going to send back and forth to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u339	Mrs Leijten, you have just been here, but I would like to give that space because this point is quite fundamental. I would then like to give the Minister the opportunity to answer the questions put by the rest of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u340	In that whole section on undesirable and that it is partly understandable that you are doing it and that it is justified under conditions, a number of comments follow on how it should be adjusted, so that at least the Chamber always receives information. That wasn't the case at first. I would like to point out that the opinion of the Council of State was: "The Advisory Section of the Council of State has a number of objections to the proposal and advises not to submit the proposal to the Second Chamber of the States-General unless it has been amended." So it's possible. He can just say now: I am curious to see whether this has been adjusted properly enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u341	The Council of State says: "It recommends that the proposal be amended accordingly." So that's what we've done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u342	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u343	Mr Van Ojik asked, also in connection with Article X, whether I was surprised by the fuss. We've just discussed the Council of State, so I assume he's referring to the hearing with the professors. Of course, I wasn't there with you, so I had to hear that from the newspaper. But if I were there, I'd just have some questions for the professors. Maybe you put it, too, but I can't judge it. The first would be about the safety net clause. What if there wasn't one? How can a government act in the event of such a very painful unexpected situation and the government's desire to avoid suffering? That would be my first question. Secondly, I would ask for a response to the Council of State, which does indeed have a number of comments, but does not say 'this cannot be done, whether this is flagrantly contrary to the Constitution', something the professors, if I understand correctly, have said. And I would, because I am always very interested in how other countries are doing, have asked both professors what they think of the legislation in other countries, as far as it is known, because not all countries have legislation. Both the United Kingdom and France have legislation containing authorisation provisions. In the United Kingdom this is even for ten years. So while there is criticism of the proposal for the Netherlands, there are countries that are facing the similar issue and that are applying even wider legislation. I would have put those questions to them and I think it would have been an interesting debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u344	I see Mr Van Ojik standing at the interrupting microphone, but I will see if the Minister is ready with this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u345	The question was how do I respond to the professors' criticism. I would have entered into the debate with them, but that is what I am doing with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u346	That is interesting, because all these questions have been raised to a greater or lesser extent. But the first one is very interesting, because of course we have all said this: what would be the alternative? The Minister would have asked the same thing. In response to that question, the professors said: that is simply that you are dealing with legislation as quickly as possible. The Council of State can sometimes advise in 36 hours. The Chamber may meet in an emergency session. There are a number of examples of laws that went through the States General very quickly without breaking normal traffic between government and parliament. I think they were mentioned here, too. That's what the professors said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u347	Then my reaction would be: if we can do that, we will, because that is what the law says. But if we are really dealing with human or animal suffering, with pain, with a very urgent or life-threatening situation, then a process of several days is undesirable. For example, Mrs Leijten mentioned the adjustment of one's own risk. Its treatment in the Chamber was a day, but that law was written for that purpose. The legal process was therefore a number of days. In situations of acute pain or suffering, you don't want to have a few days. So that would be my reaction. We're playing that hearing I wasn't at right now, but that would have been my reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u348	Whether you apply a ministerial arrangement or an AMvB to introduce a law, there will have to be publication in the Official Journal. That also requires preparation time, so I think this is actually a bit of a misconception, regardless of the fact that we certainly had this conversation with the professors. We also asked: how do they do that in other countries? We have also asked: what other solutions are there; are there no other laws that monitor emergency situations? That's what we all asked for. It is actually a bit childish, because the Minister could have looked back on that meeting, or he could have had his officials look back. All these meetings and conversations are on our website live these days.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u349	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u350	It's a little faint, because this way he's asking us questions without giving us answers to the questions we're asking, and that's his job tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u351	I was actually talking to Mr Van Ojik, who I saw reacting a little less angry. He is still smiling nicely, so I had the impression that I may not have satisfied Mr Van Ojik on his question, but I did serve him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u352	Yes, the Minister addressed Mr Van Ojik, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u353	"Oh, no, I would advise the Chamber to ask questions to the professors." Like we don't. That was indeed an answer to all of us. We were also a little out of tune. That won't be necessary. The question was: how would the Minister respond to these professors? Doesn't he respond with an answer because he's still responsible for the law, but with questions? What kind of process is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u354	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u355	Not with an answer because he is responsible for the law but with questions; what kind of process is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u356	I would indeed enter into the discussion with those professors. That's how I'd do it. That is the honest answer to Mr Van Ojik's question, because the professors' thesis raises questions again. To come up with the best solution isn't it logical that you do that with question, answer, question again? Isn't that what we do here?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u357	The Minister heard our input and undoubtedly took note of the progress of that hearing. He knows the advice of the Council of State. It should be clear to him now that, with the same interest of the Netherlands in mind, the Chamber cannot, or at least not entirely, agree with the changes that the cabinet brings. It is more than a theoretical discussion between professors and a number of listeners. My question to the Minister is: what has actually been done with the criticism of the Council of State and the comments of the professors and how does he see the contribution of the Chamber in the first term in relation to what it has laid down? That is a little ahead of his assessment of the amendments. It's a bit like the butcher who approves his own flesh, but aphine. What I still don't understand is why the Minister is so stubbornly holding on to the path that has been taken, when there are really substantive, political, constitutional arguments to say: "Oh, come on, that'll make the country better."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u358	The question was what the Minister did with the opinion of the Council of State. In response, the law was immediately amended. That's what you can read in the bill. We've both just read pieces. This also includes the adjustments made to Article X. Next, an initial letter of amendment has been made, in which Article X has been amended once more, i.e. the second time. A second letter of amendment has then been made, in which adjustments have been made. That was before the debate in the Chamber. The amendments that have now been tabled will be dealt with at the end, as I have just said, and I will be very sympathetic to some of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u359	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u360	Then Mr Verhoeven asked whether it might be necessary to implement the Article X safety net if the exit agreement is to be adopted, because then we still have an ordered Brexit. I agree with Mr Verhoeven that the chances are even less. At the same time, an ordered Brexit is still a very radical and new process. The exit agreement, which you know, is hundreds of pages. In it is also made the exercise that we run into and what we have to arrange. This has been done very carefully for two and a half years, but I cannot entirely rule out the fact that something has been overlooked there too. It's a long shot, but I can't totally rule that out. Then Mr Verhoeven asked about Articles VII, VIII, X, which allow reciprocal application, whether we are going to apply it. I have already announced how we will deal with British people in the Netherlands, with the extended transitional period. We have not made any particular demands on this. As I indicated yesterday in the AO, it is now being prepared for a proper regulation on the social security of Dutch citizens in the United Kingdom. It will not be made dependent on measures taken by the United Kingdom. In the short term, the contents of that AMvB will come to the Chamber. I have just answered Mrs Leijten's question on the comparison of own risks in the event of interruption. Mrs Leijten asked me how I see an extension option. We also raised them yesterday. I have indicated that the Netherlands is sympathetic to this. We hope with all our might to prevent a hard Brexit. If an extension can be helpful, then who can be against it, you would say. But a logical question is: what is to be done during this extension? Because if you do not indicate what follow-up steps will be taken on the British side, you will increase the uncertainty, but you are not yet working towards a solution. But the basic attitude is benevolent, as I said yesterday. Mrs Ploumen asked about the position of Dutch people in the United Kingdom who would like to take on British nationality and retain Dutch nationality. Mr Verhoeven mentioned this both yesterday and today. On this point, the Cabinet remains of the opinion that the main rule that Dutch nationality should lapse when adopting another nationality is so interwoven with our nationality law that the Brexit is not a reason to change that principle. However, I am very concerned about the position of the people concerned. That is also a very important reason to argue in favour of the negotiated Brexit and the exit agreement that is now in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u361	You were dealing with Mr Verhoeven's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u362	Yes, but Mrs Ploumen had also asked this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u363	First, I look at Mrs Leijten, who was already at the interrupting microphone. She says that Mrs Ploumen may first have the floor because she has asked a question about it. Okay. That's what I thought. Mrs. Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u364	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am immediately convinced that the Minister is also concerned about the people affected by this. He says it's so intertwined with our other rules on nationality that he doesn't want to trample on that. I would like to say that this whole debate, the Brexit and the follow-up are characterised by the fact that everything is being thrown away. If the Minister does not do so with all due respect, then the British will. In that light, you should see my proposal. The Cabinet is prepared to amend laws and introduce emergency procedures. This is a very concrete problem for people who have to deal with it every day. So my plea is basically: just throw it over the top. Because that is what you are doing with a number of other things, and rightly so. That's my call to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u365	I'll leave Mrs Ploumen's description of "turnover." We are taking the measures we need to take, because that is what we have to do. Mrs Ploumen and I do not disagree. But we always weigh it very sharply: do we really have to? The fundamental deviation from nationality legislation is... I acknowledge that a number of parties and a number of people will wish to do so, but I do not think that the criterion of harsh necessity is appropriate. And it is a far-reaching measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u366	Would you mind if I asked the Minister the following question? We don't know exactly how all this is gonna unwind. Would he agree that after three months of the British's withdrawal, he will carry out an evaluation, hard or soft, and that he will then delete what this means for the people involved? Would he then agree to consider taking action? I purposely formulate it a little vague and spacious.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u367	I would like to take stock of the whole picture with you a few months after leaving, but I do not wish to suggest that the fundamental issue of dual nationality will suddenly be called into question. And I think that's what you're actually asking me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u368	Finally, Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u369	That is a pity, because the problems must be solved by allowing double nationality. I'll leave the question with the Minister. Maybe he wants to reconsider.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u370	Yesterday it was the subject of the debate, because then Louis Asscher also asked for the Article 50 procedure to be extended, but without conditions. That was just to turn away those 29-March-brexit-without-agreements. Then the Minister replied in the same form. He said there's goodwill, but we have to have perspective. If that is not the case, it would not be public and clear political courage from the European Union, and preferably from the Dutch, to say: let's leave the negotiating axe and the you-bricks for what they are, but let's turn away those chaotic Brexit-without-agreements for a moment. That's what I asked. Has the Minister changed at that point yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u371	No, I haven't changed my mind since yesterday. It is crucial for the United Kingdom to indicate what it wants now. There was an agreement. That's tuned. We know that a majority of the British Parliament does not want hard Brexit either. We do not want that either, but we all see on the British side the difficult debate, for which many of you also had all kinds of definitions, in order to reach agreement on what they do want.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u372	In yesterday's debate...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u373	It is also logical that we should indicate at this stage: will you come quickly with clarity? That's in everyone's best interest. And we shouldn't speculate on a conditionless extension.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u374	Yesterday, this issue was discussed in detail. I do not want us to have the debate here again, so we should confine ourselves to the issue of the Brexit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u375	This is the Brexit!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u376	No, there was a lot of talk yesterday about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u377	No, it's been answered, but it's not discussed. I would like to present the following to the Minister. Next Tuesday, the House of Commons will vote on May's proposal to continue with the exit agreement, but also on a number of amendments which say, for example, no matter what happens, we do not want a Brexit without agreements. It may well be that the House of Commons accepts this, but is not yet ready to adopt its position.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u378	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u379	My question is: if you then hold on to "you have to know what you want, and otherwise we will all go off the cliffs" then that is a very unwise attitude to have?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u380	Going down the cliffs with all of them is very unwise. That is why I very much hope that after next Tuesday's vote we will have more clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u381	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u382	Mrs Ploumen asked about the European Commission's proposals on fisheries and about funding from European funds to deal with the consequences. Again, we both prefer not to get into the situation, but it is a good thing that the European Commission is also specifically preparing in this area, because fishing is an important and very vulnerable sector when it comes to the Brexit. The Commission's proposal is still very early, so, frankly, we have a lot of questions at the moment. LNV's colleague will also inform the Chamber in the short term by means of a more precise assessment of the Commission's proposal than I can now give. But the basic attitude is positive. That is also a reason to ask for more clarity. Then Mr Bishop asked, and that was in accordance with Article X: how is that criterion referred to by the law being met, namely that it must be irreversible and urgent? This will be assessed under very factual circumstances, where there really must be direct damage or direct disadvantage which cannot be eliminated at a later date. And I will continue to come back to examples of human suffering or animal suffering, because we can all imagine that you have such a situation where the pressure of time is enormous and where you will not be able to compensate for the suffering later. Mr Bishop then asked whether reciprocity would be applied when it comes to, for example, plant health requirements for agricultural products, and whether this would also allow for a smoother flow at the border. If the United Kingdom has left, we will set the EU's requirements at the border. At present, the United Kingdom is in line with this. The complexity is that we cannot now predict whether it will result from the Brexit that the United Kingdom will lower its own requirements, which is likely to prevent products from being checked, or that it will apply the same requirements, which will allow for faster border traffic. But it does illustrate exactly why such a Brexit has great consequences, even in the case of an ordered Brexit. Because even then, if the United Kingdom chooses to impose different, more flexible requirements in this area than the European Union, it will bring border controls and probably the non-acceptance of products. Then Mr Bishop asked about the relationship with the local government: who directs it? As Mr Bishop knows, all ministries in their field are actually involved in the Brexit preparations. For the local authorities, the Ministry of the Interior is leading the way. By the way, on the Brexit website there is also a separate section for local authorities. In addition, of course, a number of implementation services are involved. The issue of possible congestion at ports and airports was discussed. In this implementation, there is also, of course, close contact between, for example, Rijkswaterstaat or Customs and local authorities. Mr Omtzigt asked if there was a call between yesterday and now with the mayors. Well, we're getting in touch, but they're both full agendas; but we're gonna live up to that deal. Then Mr Bishop asked a very broad question, namely whether there is no need for a special legislative procedure, at all, for emergency services. Brexit is now pressing us with the facts, but my extensive argument at the beginning about the fact that there are more safety net provisions in many more laws illustrates that it is a more common question. I know that the discussion has often been between the Chamber and the Cabinet, but has always led to the conclusion that it is better to do it in existing legislative procedures, as we are doing now, than in an overarching law. I have no reason to believe that we would now come to a different conclusion. I think that will certainly not be possible in the course of this debate. Mrs Van der Graaf asked: can Dutch people in the United Kingdom who are now receiving a benefit keep it? I have already indicated that Mr Koolmees will shortly come forward with a general measure of governance for the implementation of social security legislation and that the full commitment is that this will be a very decent arrangement. But I really have to leave the details to the colleague and his AMvBs. Mrs Van der Graaf then drew a comparison between the information provision in the Netherlands and that in the United Kingdom. Actually, she said, in all sharpness, that she liked it much better in the United Kingdom. I honestly think that the Dutch in the United Kingdom are not entirely in agreement with her, because we have sent the British on this side a comprehensive, clear arrangement, which I hear they are generally happy with, but the other way around is really less so. I do not want to say that in other areas the British preparations cannot be clear, and perhaps more organized than they seem in the Netherlands. Mr Omtzigt also mentioned this. My picture is that that has more to do with the way they send their information. They make one package of them, while we fly into the problem per ministry. This leads to rather thick packages, as we discussed them in detail yesterday. But I would not say in general that the United Kingdom is doing much better. It is true that they are just much more affected. Yes, that is also the consequence of a choice of one's own. So they also have much more to explain to their own residents and businesses. Mrs Van der Graaf asked when the inventory of the consequences of the Brexit began. That question was also raised yesterday in the AO. The preparations started very shortly after the announcement of the outcome of the British referendum. Of course, all the scenarios are set up. Most energy is logically invested in reaching an agreement. The Chamber has always been included in that. Both I and my predecessors and colleagues have often discussed these negotiations with you during the negotiation phase. It was also logical that the energy was used on that. At the same time, we also communicated with you rather early that we also had to consider a hard Brexit. It has also always been said that we are very close to the European Commission and that we are, to a very large extent, also dependent on that European Commission, because a great deal of regulation is European, precisely when it comes to the exit of a Member of the European Union. So where I spoke to the Chamber earlier that we had really asked the European Commission to come up with its contingency planning quickly, we are now at a stage where we can say: fortunately there is a lot of that planning. As a result, it is much better possible for the Netherlands than only a few months ago to indicate where we still have to take action ourselves, because it did not happen at European level, and fortunately it did so at European level. Then...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u383	What were you gonna say?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u384	I would now like to respond to Mr Mulder's contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u385	Okay, Mr. Ommzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u386	I have the same point as Mrs Leijten. I've got my iPad right here. I'll just show you. If you go to the UK government site, you can get any file...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u387	No one can see that, Mr. Ommzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u388	I'll put it on Twitter or something in a minute. You can click on any file you want and then there are ten pages of information on how to prepare yourself. From driving licences to passports, to applying for scholarships, to the validity of your driving licence, to the standards of buses. The European Commission has done the same. There are preparedness notices, all the measures being taken throughout the Brexit prepared network. We're getting long lists. There's not much overview. The only thing we are asking here is for something similar to be made available. We get no more than half a page of information from the Ministry of Education, while both the Union and Britain simply indicate in 20 to 30 pages what happens to the programmes they participate in. There are dozens of universities in research programs with Brits. All those universities are in there. This is what happens with scholarships, this is what happens with foreign students. Wouldn't it be helpful if that were available to us? So why can't that be put together? Do we have to call on the WOB again before that comes out? So the request: can such a site on which it is simply made clear and clear, not also be created in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u389	There's a Brexit website. It is aimed at entrepreneurs, citizens and fellow governments involved in this. It has a different design than the British or the EU website, but frankly I also received sincere compliments on that Dutch website. He has a different design than both other websites. But it is true that I get a lot of complaints from Dutch people in the UK about a lack of information. Frankly, I am getting those complaints much less from the British on this side since we clarified the regulation. I am always willing to see if we can do otherwise, but there is a website that we have very much focused on businesses and citizens. It looks different from the British or European website. It also acts violently when we say that it is not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u390	I would like to endorse Mr Omtzigt's remarks. Both websites can look very attractive. So let's not look for the difference there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u391	Oh, thank God!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u392	A compliment was rightly given for the look-and-feel of the website of the Netherlands. There's definitely some useful information on it. But I do think it is a justified point that could be shared more. There is another point I would like to pick up on the answers I just got to my questions. In carrying out the Van Ojik motion, we received a letter from the government last week, containing a sort of state of affairs by department. I'm actually looking for some more information from those inventories, because there are some things in there. We have also had a closed technical briefing earlier in which a number of concrete measures were discussed from different scenarios. That seems to me to be information that we should simply be able to share publicly. Perhaps it could be a little more insightful, a little more schematic, a little more detailed and concrete, so that it is also accessible to citizens and businesses. Is the Minister prepared to take another look at that and get on with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u393	We also discussed yesterday in the debate that additional information will be provided on the scenarios for the port of Rotterdam. That was one of the essential questions. But it's inevitable that we will do so the moment the report is finished. I think IenW's colleague will bring that up next week. For example, Mr Omtzigt also had a question about the tools. Because it is a European scheme, it is inevitable that there will be consultation between the European Commission and the Member States on how admission is handled. March 29th is close, but it is not yet March 29th. It is inevitable that a number of further steps will be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u394	I understand. At the same time, I can see that the Chamber has been given a summary of what has already been planned, but I cannot imagine that much more has been invented. I would like this information not only to be known to us. Of course, it's public, but not everyone is on the government website looking for all the letters about this. But I would really like to call on the Minister to make a move with regard to the provision of information on specific foreseeable situations, because I suspect that there are more. It may well be that not all measures are yet known. When it comes to ports, the steps can be described on that website, so to speak. So we'll write down what the minister just shared. Then the citizens will know in real time what is happening, and I would like that so much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u395	It really has nothing to do with unwillingness, but with the actual state of affairs. In a number of areas, we are making the final points. Even when I look back, I can see that there was much more unclear back then. There was also great concern, for example about the position of British people in the Netherlands, about the lack of clarity on the part of the European Commission and specifically on aviation. We are now further on because steps have been taken on both sides, but it is not yet 29 March, so we have not quite reached the end point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u396	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u397	A lot of people across the country are working on it incredibly hard. Mr Mulder asked me to make it clear to the European Commission that they too should do their inventory well. Where this is not done sufficiently thoroughly, this could mean that we should use that Article X, which we have already talked about extensively, for this reason too. I welcome the European Commission on this point. I have already outlined to you that I was impatient not so long ago, but have seen great progress. At the same time, it is true that Article X may also be necessary because something has been overlooked somewhere in broad European legislation. Here too, I hope not. Mr Omtzig asked whether there was actually a kind of Article X at European level, with an urgent procedure. The European Commission does not have an overarching Article X. This makes it immediately necessary that a Member State such as the Netherlands ultimately does have this in case of emergency. However, in a number of sectors, under the basic Treaty of the European Union or underlying sectoral regulations, the Commission has special powers in the case of debt securities, as it is called, distortions of the internal market. In a number of cases this will be possible, but in other cases they will have to initiate a rapid legislative procedure. Mr Omtzigt also asked how to deal with AMvBs or ministerial arrangements under the law we are now discussing when several departments will come up with them. Is that initiated from the State Department? Almost always the initiative will lie with other departments of the trade, because the State does very little about legislation. It is actually very unique that I stand here as Minister of State to defend a law, but frankly, if the law is to be used, it will be a colleague who does so rather than myself. A number of articles are in the area of colleagues anyway, but it also applies to Article X. If so, it will be in consultation with Foreign Affairs and the other relevant ministries, whether it is an AMvB or a ministerial arrangement. The coordination we now have around the Brexit will certainly also be used in that case. Mr Omtzigt asked if we could indicate what extra parking around ferry ports costs. I can't report that. The cost doesn't fall with the government anyway, so I don't have any money. Mr Omtzig asked in which areas the WTO does not offer a safety net in a no-dealbrexit. In a lot of areas. Mr Omtzig realises that the WTO only contains trade agreements, not in all these other areas: the fight against criminality, civil rights, social security. Then they are also quite rudimentary trade agreements. It would therefore be a very unattractive scenario to fall back on the WTO agreements. Then Mr Omtzigt asked again for an inspection post for live animals that would enter the Netherlands from the United Kingdom after a hard Brexit. I indicated yesterday that there is no such judgment. It will be necessary to be able to import live animals. It is the responsibility of the companies concerned to ensure that it is set up. They need to know that, too. There is close contact between LNV's colleague and NVWA with the business community. So they know they have to. It must also be notified to the European Commission before 15 February. So the clock is ticking for the companies involved. Then Mr Omtzigt asked with regard to fisheries whether his impression is correct that the European Commission wants bilateral negotiations now, while fishing has so far been an EU competence. At the moment it is still an EU competence, so the Dutch government cannot now negotiate access itself. There are no concrete proposals that have changed that division of responsibility. Mr Omtzig also asked if I could indicate how contacts between the European Union and the United Kingdom are being shaped in the case of a no deal. Then how is further negotiations going to be conducted? Then what's the forum? That's really a few steps too far. The full commitment is aimed at reaching a deal now. The legislation and the plans that we discussed yesterday are trying to map the impact as much as possible and manage a hard Brexit. Preparing for the next contacts is not really possible, because that depends so much on how the no-deal came about. Of course, there are ordinary diplomatic contacts and a lot of operational contacts that continue to go on happily, but on balance it will be a complicated and very undesirable situation. Mr Omtzig asked again about medical devices. On this subject, the Minister for Medical Care sent a procedural letter this morning. There is a general consultation on medicines on 7 February. For this general consultation, the Minister will send the latest state of affairs to the Chamber. Mr Omtzig asked whether the European Union was sufficiently prepared in the field of infrastructure and water. This is typically an area on which we pointed out a few months ago that we had very little information from the European Union, for example in the field of aviation. A number of proposals have now been submitted by the Commission on ship inspections, aviation, road transport and type-approval. That is where preparation at European level is really moving in the right direction. Mr Omtzigt once again asked about the position of someone with a British driver's license in the Netherlands who, thanks to the change in the law that is now before us, will be able to drive around here with a British driver's license for a while. Can that person cross the border, too? Yeah, he can cross the border. Follow-up question: was this not a logical issue to regulate European affairs? In theory, the answer to that is yes, but it is not now. Even now, there is no European regulation on how every country deals with driving licences from outside the European Union. Apparently, no one has ever seen or agreed on it. For the British who want to drive to Belgium, there will soon be no additional problem. Then Mr Omtzigt asked about the position of students...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u398	I see that Mr Omtzigt wishes to intervene, but I suggest that the Minister proceed first with his reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u399	In the event of a no-dealbrexit, the cabinet intends that British citizens who lived in the Netherlands prior to the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union will retain their current claims. This is regulated by AMvB within existing legislation. It will soon be before the Council of Ministers and will go to the Chamber through the Council of State. These Britons in the Netherlands will be subject to the same conditions as EU citizens in terms of tuition fees and student funding. These students, who are now resident in the Netherlands, may then complete the current study on the same conditions. British citizens who come to the Netherlands after the withdrawal from the EU are treated as third-country nationals. So much for a short summary of what will soon come to AMvB. Let me now turn to the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u400	Mr Ottoman, is there another question? Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u401	Do I understand that a British citizen who lives in the Netherlands and goes to Belgium with his British driving licence, which is valid in the Netherlands but is not valid in Belgium, has no problem, because his driving licence is valid there?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u402	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u403	Now for the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u404	Mr. Chairman, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u405	Oh, Mr. Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u406	I got distracted for a second. Excuse me. There was one more thing that I might want an answer from the Minister before the second term. I might have expected, let me put it this way, that a stronger distinction would be made between the situation in an orderly Brexit with an exit agreement and the no-dealbrexit. I can imagine that in the latter case you will find yourself in a much earlier position to use some kind of emergency law. Does the Minister agree with me and could he perhaps highlight that distinction more clearly?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u407	Yes, Mr Verhoeven asked exactly that question. At that time I indicated to him that in the case of an ordered Brexit, the chances of using an emergency facility are even smaller, because for that ordered Brexit for two and a half years we have been inventoried and negotiated on what we need to settle between the European Union and the United Kingdom. That has resulted in that huge exit agreement. The reason why I cannot completely rule out the fact that you are also faced with an unexpected situation is because it is so many regulations and such a big deal of agreement. That is why I can say 'the chance is even smaller', but I cannot completely rule it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u408	The amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u409	First of all, the amendment on item No. 6, by Mrs Leijten and Mr Van Raan. It proposes to delete Article X altogether. As I have indicated, it has also been found necessary in previous legislation to include a ministerial emergency regime. Unfortunately, I also need it in this case, not because I want it so badly, because it is the last instrument we will use, because we will first inventory all other possibilities. But just as it turned out to be necessary in other laws, I need him here, too. So I must advise against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u410	Are you going as a chamber or not to cross the bridge by giving the government a power of decision? That is what this amendment is about. I am not surprised at what he is now advising, but I hope that the Chamber will stand up for its own rights and support this amendment. I do have a question for the Minister. He says: we do not really want this instrument and we will always investigate whether it can be done in another way. Only in life and death, or if the future of a company is in danger, can we use it. But isn't it possible to frame even tighter when you bet it? Or can you, when you do this, always send the consideration why it couldn't be done by law to the Chamber, so that you always take that responsibility?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u411	That is in one of the amendments I am about to discuss. Then I'll go into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u412	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u413	Mr President, there are all amendments coming along that try that decree... And Article X is a decree in which the Chamber hears things afterwards and can say yes and no afterwards, but has no legislative power. The Chamber is therefore limited in its power. I just want to know from the Minister if he's going to inform the Chamber with an analysis of why it really couldn't be otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u414	Mr President, that is the amendment tabled by Mrs Van der Graaf and Mr Omtzigt. That's exactly what I'm asking, and that's what I'm about to come up with.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u415	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u416	Then I come to the amendment to item No. 12, by Mr Verhoeven and Mr Omtzigt. In Article X, this replaces "one year after date" by "six months after date." So it shortens the time period during which the emergency clause can be used. We are already a lot shorter than the other countries that have similar laws, but I have also heard the sensitivities in the Chamber. And I also think it is a good tradition that we do a law and a far-reaching piece of legislation like this in good consultation with the Chamber. That is why I shall leave this amendment to the House's discretion. Then there is the amendment to item No. 13, also by Mr Omtzigt and Mr Verhoeven. It amends Article X. The first sentence is replaced by the following: "A ministerial arrangement adopted pursuant to paragraph 7 shall be sent to both Chambers of the States General no later than the day following its placement in the Official Journal." In the second sentence, the words "without delay" are replaced by the words "within a week." And a paragraph is added which reads: "A provision referred to in the seventh paragraph which does not constitute an equivalence between the United Kingdom and an EU Member State for the application of a law or general measure of governance shall automatically lapse if a proposal of law has not been submitted within 10 weeks of its entry into force (...)."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u417	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u418	This instructs the government to submit, within ten weeks, an approval law for such a deviating ministerial arrangement and states that the measure will lapse if it does not. That's sharp, but it's feasible. In the same attitude as the previous one, in which I pointed out that I think it is important that we do such a law in good consultation, I also leave this amendment to the Court's opinion. I come to Mrs Van der Graaf's and Mrs Leijten's amendments, the amendment to item No. 15.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u419	Before you proceed, Mr Van Raan has a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u420	We were wondering whether the Minister would also see the point we made, namely that this trap axe does not start at the time of equivalence and that there may then be differences over time with how the product or service was introduced within the equivalence. For example, this will not work if the composition of the product or service changes either in England or in Europe, but in such a way that it is not covered by that European regulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u421	That is a distinction that the proposers have made, and that does not lead the government to conclude that this is not possible, because the type of measures under this article will be temporary at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u422	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u423	Then there is Mrs Van der Graaf and Mrs Leijten's amendment, which amends Article X in such a way as to ensure that general administrative measures do not derogate from the provisions of the Constitution and contain a similar wording for the ministerial regime. I would not dare to come up with any proposals, any more than my fellow Members, which are different from the Constitution, so I would also like to leave this amendment to the Court's opinion. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 17. That reads: "A sentence shall be added to the third paragraph: If at least one third of the constitutional number of members of one of the two Chambers of the States-General objects (...)." We have already discussed in the debate whether there is any significant constitutional consequences. That would involve this amendment, because here you are creating a situation in which a simple majority heartily believes that a particular measure or an AMvB is appropriate and could not subsequently achieve it. I don't think that's something that should have a place in our decision-making, so I should advise against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u424	It's an amendment by Mr Van Ojik, isn't it? Yes, Mr Van Ojik has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u425	It is, of course, a situation in which the cabinet is actually different from the normal democratic procedure. This amendment says that this can only be done if two thirds of the Chamber agrees with it or, on the other hand, if a third of the Chamber does not agree with it. It is quite daring to say as a cabinet that you are against it because it is a state-law novel. That is the argument. If I understand the Minister correctly, when you ask the Chamber as a cabinet, you can have very good reasons for that. That is what this whole debate is about. This amendment states that this can only be done if two thirds of the House agrees with it. The Minister is tired of saying: we will really do it alone in the most obvious cases. And the amendment says: do it only if two thirds of the House agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u426	Yeah, but that's really very far-reaching. A simple majority can therefore no longer bring about a decision, even under an AMvB. Again, this would apply to a safety net clause which has already been applied several dozen times in previous laws. So I think it is too far-reaching. I can't come to a better judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u427	Mrs Leijten has a brief question on Mr Van Ojik's amendment, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u428	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. Look, Ariel X is also very far-reaching. If the government needs a measure for which a majority is in favour, this measure can therefore pass through the parliament if the ordinary legislative route is followed. That wouldn't be possible if you were to use that decree that's being hung under Article X. So the government is not being harassed, but it can only not use the decree while 76 members say that it can. So it's not blocking measures. The government can use the measure, but it has to follow the legal procedure. I do not understand why that would be a problem, when the Minister asks us to give his power out of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u429	This article will only be used if the legal procedure cannot be used. The law states in detail that if the ordinary procedure can be applied, the ordinary procedure will also be applied. That's why this equation is flawed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u430	All right, I don't think we can agree on this amendment tonight, so I suggest that the Minister move on to the next amendment, by Mrs Van der Graaf and Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u431	The amendment in part No. 19, by Mrs Van der Graaf and Mr Omtzigt, states that two sentences shall be added to Article X: "The first sentence shall apply only if no provision of the first sentence can be made under the provisions of or under another law."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u432	Yes, everyone has the amendment, Minister. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u433	Yeah, but it's kind of useful for me to go into what it says for the explanatory statement...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u434	Yeah, yeah, but don't read it all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u435	... because the last sentence is exactly what Mrs Leijten just asked for, namely: "The use of the power referred to in the first sentence is expressly justified." I think this amendment is appropriate in the discussion we are having.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u436	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u437	I am therefore prepared to agree with the authors of the amendment in order to deal with it in this way, including the justification. So I would also like to leave this amendment to the judgement of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u438	The amendment in part No. 20, by Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u439	Finally, I come to the amendment to item No. 20.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u440	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u441	That amendment does not make it possible to apply Article X in the form of a ministerial arrangement. Then I come back to the very point that it might be possible for a measure to be taken as a matter of urgency. That would no longer be possible if this amendment were to be adopted. So the amendment in part No. 20 I have to advise against. Mr President, I hope I have answered the questions from the first time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u442	Yes. Thank you. Let us now move on to the second term of office. Mrs. Van der Graaf may speak first. It speaks on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u443	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, too, for the freedom you give me to speak first here in the second term. I would like to thank the Minister for his explanation and also for his positive advice on the amendments tabled by me and a number of colleagues. If that is true, it will certainly make it easier for us to finally agree to this law. I really hope, therefore, that the House will support these amendments. In the first period, I also asked the Minister whether preparations have been made for AMVBs or ministerial arrangements. So in other words: are they actually on the shelf or not yet? And if so, can the Minister indicate in what areas? If he's got the information on that right now, we'd like to know. Mr. Chairman. I have also drawn attention to the transparency of information for citizens, for businesses. I have another motion to file on that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that both the UK and the EU have published thousands of pages of very detailed research results on the impact of the Brexit;]] [[noting that in the Netherlands the departmental surveys have only been made public in general;]] [[Considers that the disclosure of departmental reviews and detailed analysis of scenarios contributes to the resilience of the Dutch economy in the case of a no-dealbrexit;]] [[calls on the government to place all available Brexit plans online so that they are accessible to Dutch citizens and the Dutch business community,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van der Graaf and Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35084-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u444	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for replying. It is also a pleasure that the Minister is prepared to listen to a desire of a large part of the Chamber to give several amendments which limit Article X, which has already been amended twice, even further. In fact, he indicates that the cabinet now realises that the Chamber really wants to do so and that it is wise to do so. It has indeed gone in a number of steps, but I think it has been a good thing that we have gone through those steps to find what we were looking for. That is a balance in these two extremes, both of which are important to this law: on the one hand, a Chamber that can always control what the government does and on the other hand, a government that can act to protect the country from adverse consequences of Brexit. So I am satisfied and I can also say to Mrs Leijten that now that the chances of our amendments being achieved are so great, we will also support the law in that case. Because that's actually the answer to her hypothetical question at the time. Furthermore, it has been difficult debates this week, because you don't know what you're talking about. We've all repeated that. I think it's worth a compliment to the cabinet, too. They try to eliminate so many uncertainties, without knowing if it will ever be necessary. I hope that it will never be necessary and that the British will eventually simply remain a member of the Union. If not, this was not a waste of money or waste of energy, but the work that politicians who do take responsibility for their country have done to minimise the damage. I think that is also the only thing we have done in recent months and years in the context of Brexit: reducing damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u445	Thank you, Mr Verhoeven. Mrs Leijten on behalf of the SP. Oh, Mr. Van Raan has another question for you, Mr. Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u446	Yeah, because he made me a promise to come back in second term to the question that was asked in the first term. I imagine he forgot, but maybe...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u447	No, no. I actually thought that the various bilaterals, Mr Omtzig's input and the Minister's comments were a kind of sum sum in case the scenario he rightly outlined and clearly identified could take place. I think that's true. I think two things are important. The example mentioned by Mr Van Raan was really about trade. That is a competence of the European Union. Even when the British are out, the European Union, the EU-27, will decide on behalf of the Netherlands how that works. And in the other case, if it does not fall within the competence of the EU-27 at the time, then it is by definition a measure that will eventually happen again, so you will not get into the squeeze that Mr Van Raan was afraid of.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u448	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u449	Then I fully accept that I will not have understood, but I read very clearly that the amendment assumes that there will be an equivalence. This really means that the same thing is happening in the area of the internal market too, so equality is an internal market. I didn't hear the opposite...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u450	Short response, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u451	I'm not ruling out that I don't understand, you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u452	No. I don't think you understand. I think you understand perfectly. I think you have made a point and I think it is very good that we have thought about it. It is also very good to simply point out that I cannot completely overlook the amendment on this point with complete certainty with regard to the future either. However, the intention of the amendment is very clear and the additions made by, among other things, Omtzigt as the main proposer and the minister give me the feeling that it is well arranged and that the hypothetical situation you have devised is theoretically possible and has been found to be good and sharp, but will never take place in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u453	Thank you. Mrs Leijten on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u454	The Brexit could be called a mistake. You can call it the result of a referendum. It must be implemented and for two years the political leaders in Europe have failed to shape the way out so that it does not harm our economy, does not harm civil rights and does not harm peace on the island of Ireland. I really don't think that's something to look at. Pretending that it would only be those blasters in the House of Commons is not enough for us. The European Union, too, is drawing red lines, and this Minister does not say today that he will do everything in his power to ensure that, in the general interest, he jumps over his own shadow and over the great shadow of all those dolls at the table, a Brexit without abhorring or pleading for it. I would like to discuss every bill and its relevance, but I expected the Minister to say yes to it here. Well, I guess I'll just ask the Chamber for a ruling. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that the exit of the United Kingdom without an agreement (a no-dealbrexit) is undesirable;]] [[calls on the Government to act and to submit to the European Council that the extension of Article 50 should be preferable to a Brexit without any agreement, even if the House of Commons is not yet in a position to clarify what it wants,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35084-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u455	Of course, I fully share with the Minister that it is very nice to have clarity before that time. But now put on the table that we only talk about extension when "you're already out"? That's playing with fire again. That has already happened for the past two years, and we should not do that. Then congratulations to the Minister: Article X is saved. With some "judgment chamber," some conditions, it has become a bit stricter, but the principle that the government issues a decree... Whether you call that ministerial arrangement, AMvB or an authorisation decision, it's the principle of a decree. The Chamber can only see it and no longer influence it. That's what's gonna happen with this; congratulations, I'd like to say. We have had to push and pull a bit, and there has been a need for some banging in the media, but in the end a majority of this Chamber will agree to the introduction of decrees. I think that, really, is very crazy. We are giving away our own resources. Does that make it better? Well, I wonder. I'm not going to vote for a political game against the restrictions on Article X. I'm not gonna do that. But saying that you saved democracy with that is not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u456	Thank you, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u457	I have a number of questions, Mr President, which have not been answered. Where are the inventories we've been asking for, the screenings in the ministries? We simply asked for this: in the written procedure, last week with a rappel and today in the debate. This also makes it clear what need we have or do not have in Article X. Why does the Minister not respond to such a question? Why isn't he answering it? Why isn't there a note saying it couldn't be done? Because it's a question from the opposition? Is that how this minister deals with the relationship between Chamber and Government? The government calls for confidence, including from opposition parties, and very often gets it to make policies. Policies are also very often supported. But if you consistently don't answer questions from the opposition or answer them with a you-bowl, then it's not possible. Mr Van Ojik simply asked: how do you respond to the professors? "Yes, with a second question, haha!" Then there's no way to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u458	Thank you very much, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u459	Because we've already asked that. I find that really very distinctive. I want those inventories, or I want to understand why we couldn't get them. If I don't get them, I'm gonna find out they're probably not gonna be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u460	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Ojik on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u461	Thank you, too, to the Minister. I thought the answers were generally clear, even though I didn't necessarily agree with them. I'll ask you about that later. I am also pleased that the Minister has provided a positive opinion on several amendments aimed at strengthening the position of the Chamber in this process. I have also said before that my group will also vote in favour of these amendments. As you can probably understand, I regret that these positive opinions do not relate to my own amendment, because that would also help to further strengthen the position of the Chamber in those cases. The cabinet says, of course, we only do this in very exceptional obvious cases. Then you shouldn't really be afraid that you're creating a construction that takes two thirds of the Chamber to get that AMvB or ministerial arrangement going, whatever it is. There's a tension between them. I'll come to my last question before I make a motion. I have listened very carefully to the Minister's answers to questions that many of us have asked about the kind of situations that we are dealing with. The Minister says every time: we are dealing with situations of animal suffering or human suffering. With all due respect, that's not so concrete. Perhaps there is no other way; I also want to listen to that very understandingly. But if that is the case, the question remains: if there is such a truck, is it really necessary to have such a fundamental Article X in such a law to act; are there really no alternatives? I would like to ask the Minister that question again. Then I'll come to my motion. I submit it together with Mr Van Raan, and she speaks about our genuine desire to submit the amended law to the Council of State again. I know it's not common, but there's more to it than usual. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the legislative proposal following the opinion of the Council of State and the written input from the Chamber has been substantially amended;]] [[calls on the Government to submit the amended Brexit Collecting Act to the Council of State for further advice,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Ojik and Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35084-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u462	Mr President, I would like to ask you, finally, you will understand that this motion is probably the first to be put to the vote before the vote on the law, the amendments and the other motions. If this motion were to be adopted, it would mean that the vote on the law would eventually have to be postponed for a week or two weeks, depending on how much time the Council of State needs. So that is my request to you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u463	There's no one to object to that, so that's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u464	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u465	I now give the floor to Mr Van Raan on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u466	Mr. Chairman. With the added advantage that the Council of State can show how quickly...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u467	Sorry, I skipped Ms. Ploumen. You're so quiet, Mrs. Ploumen. Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u468	Yes, Mrs Ploumen was first. You're absolutely right, Mr. Chairman. I was called, so I came forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u469	No, it's not you. It's me. I call Mrs Ploumen first on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u470	Mr. Chairman. I wonder what part of Mr Van Raan led you to think he looked like me or the other way around. Anyway, it's all over with the Brexit, this too! Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for the answers. I think that it is a necessary and perhaps sufficient condition for some that the Minister realizes that the emergency law as part of the collective law as it was, was not acceptable to the Chamber. I think it would have been worth a sweet thing to each if that step had been taken much earlier in the process. Then the Chamber would have remained in position and we should not have fought so hard for our own position. Mr. Chairman. I've heard the Minister's answers. My group is going to discuss its overall assessment. Mr. Chairman. I do have another motion on the subject of dual nationality. That is of great concern to me. The Minister also cares about it, but I would also like a solution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the legal position of all citizens affected by the Brexit is surrounded by uncertainties;]] [[noting that most EU Member States allow double nationality and are in the process of taking measures to make an exception for this particular group of citizens, resulting in legal inequality between citizens in different EU countries;]] [[Whereas the Dutch authorities have a duty of care and a responsibility to do everything possible, in addition to all measures and approximation of laws and regulations due to the impact of the Brexit on industry, the transport sector and the agricultural and fisheries sectors, to address the impact of the Brexit on citizens and to ensure that there is an end to legal inequality and uncertainty;]] [[calls on the Government to include a derogation for all persons covered by the Treaty of Accession or by any hard Brexit in the National Law on Dutch Citizenship before the UK leaves the EU, thereby giving this group the possibility of dual nationality,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Ploumen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35084-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u471	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to comment on the motion that we tabled together with GroenLinks: if the motion is adopted, the Council of State can also show how quickly it can work. Mr. Chairman. I would, of course, like to thank the Minister for his answer to our questions, but the Minister has not answered any of our questions. Not on the question of whether he thinks it is hypocritical that a government that doesn't seem to give a shit about animals now seems to undermine democracy at once and uses the suffering of animals as an alibi. But there is also no response to the proposal to introduce a partial breeding ban. Now it may be that way I'd like to offer him that he thought they were rhetorical questions, so you don't expect an answer, but they weren't. They were really concrete questions. Mr. Chairman. With us, the animals are central, every day. Today, animals were also at the heart of this Chamber: this morning's fundamental debate on the suffering and death of animals in livestock farming, but also in this debate, particularly brought in by the Minister himself. Mr. Chairman. The request by GroenLinks and the Animal Party to re-present this bill to the Council of State is, in our view, crucial. It is not possible for this Chamber to be extremely critical of Article X at first, but then to be able to refer these amendments, which we do not know how they will work out, as the authors of the amendments themselves say, to the Council of State once again in this exceptional case. Mr. Chairman. I have two more motions I would like to table. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the sector has failed to establish sufficient benchmarks for imports of live animals from the United Kingdom;]] [[noting that the NVWA already has capacity problems;]] [[calls on the Government to prepare, under the precautionary principle, so that imports of live animals from the United Kingdom can be discontinued by 29 March at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35084-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u472	Then one more, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there will be major problems in exporting live animals;]] [[calls on the Government, under the precautionary principle, to prepare for the immediate cessation of exports of live animals to the United Kingdom;]] [[calls on the Government, as part of these preparations, to introduce a partial ban on breeding as soon as possible so that the animals which will not be exported do not have to be sent to slaughter,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35084-26]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u473	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u474	I now give the floor to Mrs Van Weerdenburg, on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u475	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This evening, the Minister made an attempt to remove the unrest in the Chamber about Article X by mentioning a lot of examples of laws and weets that also contain a safety net clause, so it is not new or unusual. However, the Minister is ignoring the fact that the input for this safety net provision of Article X, its possible use, comes from Brussels. It will be an EU pass-through, one of the most undemocratic bodies in existence, so the Minister's comparison is flawed as far as we are concerned. I also regret that the Minister has not given serious consideration to the proposal put forward by several colleagues to put his trust in a swift handling by the Chamber in the event of an emergency. The Minister asks the Chamber to agree to a far-reaching limitation of its powers and says that it will only be used in extreme emergency situations. He's asking us to trust him, but he doesn't trust us as a room. He does not want to give additional information and explains an urgent procedure by the Chamber in advance not fast enough, because that will take a few days anyway. The PVV is very sorry about that. Mr. Chairman. The PVV will weigh everything and we will see which amendments will be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u476	Thank you, Mrs Van Weerdenburg. I now give the floor to Mr Anne Mulder, on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u477	Mr President, thank you. We have debated this Brexit Act in detail this evening, and in particular Article X. It was about the balance between democratic control and the need to intervene quickly in unacceptable consequences of Brexit. I think it was a good debate. I welcome the Minister's assessment of the amendments to tighten up Article X. We will also support these amendments, as I have already said. Rather not this law, but we will have many more debates in this Chamber to limit the damage caused by Brexit. Finally. Hopefully the more reasonable Members of Parliament in the House of Commons will prevail in Britain in the coming weeks, so that the so-called no deal is off the table and we will get a Brexit that will keep the United Kingdom closer to the European Union, because that is in the utmost interest of the Netherlands and of all the people involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u478	Thank you, Mr. Anne Mulder. Finally, Mr Omtzigt, on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u479	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the answer and for the indeed extensive discussion on Article X of this law. It was also very necessary because we take our role as legislator, but also as constitutionr, seriously in this Chamber. I suspect that we will often talk about the Brexit in the coming weeks, because the plans are not yet fully clear. I did not accidentally table a motion with Mrs Van der Graaf that those documents will come online and be clear, so that we can understand what all these plans are. That can also be somewhat fluid, because I suspect that much will happen in the House of Commons in the coming weeks. I am also very curious to see whether the British Cabinet can reach a proper decision, because that is what we are all waiting for most. I'm waiting with great sorrow for what's going to happen to the tools. I'd like to see that in front of the AO on drugs. I have read something else about fishing, namely that we are going to negotiate bilaterally. As it was only published last night, I await the further analysis of the Minister for Agriculture. I have three more motions, Mr. Chairman. Let me take a look at Mr Van Raan. It may be that for once I am going to braid a motion with him, but I have made it together with Mr Geurts. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that no inspection post on live animals approved by the European Commission is currently present at any Dutch seaport where imports from third countries can take place;]] [[noting that in a no-dealbrexit the only inspection posts present in the Netherlands, at Schiphol and Maastricht, will not be sufficient;]] [[calls on the Government to take the lead in a public-private partnership on the high probability of a no-dealbrexit to set up an inspection post in time to approve live animals imported from the UK via Dutch seaports,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt and Mr Geurts. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35084-27]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u480	Mr. Chairman. There was something else I didn't get an answer to. I understand that too, but that was about Dutch people whose license is not dealt with in time by the CBR. That's why just the next question. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in the case of a hard Brexit British driving licence which is actually invalid, the government gives an additional period of validity of 15 months;]] [[calls on the Government to propose, within two weeks, a solution for Dutch drivers who have already applied for an extension of their driving licence in good time, but who do not have a valid driving licence due to the chaos at the CBR,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35084-28]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u481	No. Mr President, the third motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the European Commission has presented a large number of documents well in advance on the Brexit preparation website, including draft legislation;]] [[considers that these measures were therefore well known in advance, at least in concept;]] [[calls on the Government not to use ministerial arrangements under Article X of the Brexit Collection Act for these provisions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt and Mr Van der Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35084-29]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u482	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u483	Mr Van Raan has a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u484	Yeah, a quick question. It's a like-dan question, though. I know the problem with that, but what if your motion on the control point is not adopted? Then they're not here. Is Mr Omtzigt prepared to vote in favour of our motion on such an import ban? This may also have to do with the order in which motions are voted on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u485	I'm not in favour of import and export bans. Let me just be clear about that. So we're not prepared to do that. I am prepared to work together to encourage the government to set up an inspection point and to do so in good time. So if you would like to discuss that, I am certainly prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u486	Thank you, Mr. Ommzigt. This was the second term of office. I'll see if he needs a brief suspension. The final motions are coming up. It appears to me that the Minister does not need a short suspension. Then we'll wait for the last motions filed. They're being copied and distributed. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u487	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Van der Graaf asked if she could get an overview of the AMvBs that are currently in preparation. I have already mentioned a number of them in the debate. I will be happy to share that overview with the Chamber in writing. In addition, she and Mr Omtzigt had the motion in part No. 21, in which it invites the government to publish all available Brexit plans online so that they are accessible to citizens and businesses. What I can say is that I can publish in schematic form the information that both my colleagues and I have shared with the Chamber in recent times. I am convinced that this, together with the Brexit website that already exists, will give us a complete insight. The motion calls for "all available Brexit plans." Now it is true that there are endless mail changes and documents between government, companies and execution services. So I cannot agree to the strict explanation of 'all', but if I may explain the motion as I have just indicated, namely to make the information shared with the Chamber available in a structured manner, then I can leave her 'judgment Chamber'.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u488	Mr Omtzigt, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u489	We are indeed referring to the matters that lie in the Chamber, but also to those departmental audits. And as far as all the underlying plans are concerned, I can see what the Minister is saying. But we do like to receive these departmental reviews and what's being done. We are also hearing new useful information about these students today. That's interesting. That's the kind of information we'd like. As far as anything that goes deeper, I get what the Minister says.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u490	Yes, but then I have a second point, because screening may also contain information that we cannot make available for the purposes of the negotiations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u491	I understand that, but it's just that it's a lot deeper than it is now. And that, in view of the negotiations at fishing level, not all the documents will be on it, I fully understand that. But just really one shot deeper about what's happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u492	With these additions, I can leave her "judge chamber." Then Mr Verhoeven. I would like to congratulate all the officials and others concerned on the work they have done. Then Mrs. Leijten. With regard to the inventory of plans, I hope to meet her through the motion I was just discussing with Mr Omtzigt. In addition, it has tabled a motion calling on the Government to "defer and submit to the European Council that the extension of Article 50 should be preferable to a Brexit without agreement, even if the British House of Commons is not yet in a position to clarify". I'm gonna have to dissuade him. I have already indicated that I do not want to think through all kinds of scenarios ahead of important British discussions and votes, but I have also indicated that I would be sympathetic to an extension if it indicates what it is used for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u493	A brief question about the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u494	I think the Secretary of State is playing with fire here. Is he really not prepared, with all those negotiating marshes in which we have walked, to finally serve the general interest and do everything in his power and in the power of the European Union, to at least turn away before 29 March that we are without agreements on 30 March?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u495	In Mrs Leijten's question, however, there is a very strong undertone that we would not do everything to avoid it. Two and a half years have been negotiated, in close consultation with your Chamber. There's a good deal. We are trying to save that agreement with all possible means, and we are looking at ways of getting out of it differently. So the whole suggestion that we would be totally irresponsible here and that we would like to see a hard Brexit, I think the truth is such. It doesn't change my judgment on the motion either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u496	Finally, and briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u497	These negotiations, which have lasted two and a half years, do not stand out openly on both sides. But the British House of Commons has only been able to judge late. It's crushing, but it's crushing, voted away. There is 'unfortunate', I would say, not yet a rapprochement between the Conservative Party and Labour to see what is possible. I'd like to give them that time. I would like the European Union to say 'we are actually still in the front line of the exit agreement'...................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u498	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u499	I find it really inexplicable for the Minister to reject it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u500	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u501	This is such a repeat of moves. I indicated yesterday and today how I feel about an extension. There's really nothing I can add to that. Mr Van Ojik thanked me for the answers, which I appreciate again. He added a question: are there really no alternatives? I hope to have indicated that the legal framework will always look at the answer to that question. If there is any reason to choose a route other than that of the ministerial arrangement as a matter of urgency, the other route will be chosen. If that were not the case, the Chamber would be able to find the minister concerned. I am therefore genuinely convinced that I can reassure Mr Van Ojik in this area. Then Mr Van Ojik, together with Mr Van Raan, has the motion in part No. 23, in which the Government is invited to re-present the amended Brexit Collecting Act to the Council of State. I've already indicated that that's unusual, but besides that, the clock is ticking. March 29th is coming up on its own. If your Chamber agrees by majority to the law, the First Chamber will also want a normal treatment. He also wants a written round of questions and a debate. So I'm gonna ask for a lot of their time. In addition to the arguments I have already shared with you, I fear that I simply do not have that time before 29 March, so the motion in part No. 23, I really shouldn't advise. Mrs Ploumen goes into more detail with her group in connection with the debate and my opinion on the amendments. I hope, of course, that you will give me a favourable opinion. She has a motion, in part No. 24, on double nationality, a point we were talking about. It invites the government to include an exemption for all persons covered by the Treaty of Accession or by a possible hard Brexit in the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap before the UK leaves the EU. This motion really calls for a far-reaching amendment of the law, and I have explained in detail why I do not think it is necessary and appropriate. Unfortunately, I have to advise against this motion. Mr Van Raan actually said that I had not answered a question. I really remember having a wide-ranging debate with you, in which I also asked you questions. We have therefore had a whole exchange of views. You asked about the breeding ban. You asked the same question yesterday and you will probably receive the same answer now. So the answer is, like yesterday, that I don't think that makes any sense. I thought it was a little weird that you suggested that animal suffering wouldn't interest me. What's the point of suggesting that? Of course I care. Of course, my colleagues are interested in that. Of course, that is a consideration of this law. Then Mr Van Raan has tabled two motions. In the motion in part No. 25 the government is invited to make preparations so that imports of live animals from the United Kingdom are completely discontinued by 29 March at the latest. There has been talk of panic measures. Yeah, this seems like a panic measure to me. We will do this properly after 29 March, but we will not stop it completely. So I'm going to have to dissuade the motion. In the motion in part No. 26 the government is invited to introduce a breeding ban and an export ban as part of the preparations. This too, namely to put a complete stop to this after a Brexit, falls into the category of panic measures. I must therefore also advise against this motion. Mrs Van Weerdenburg says that this safety net article really differs from previous safety net articles, because it also covers EU legislation. That's not the case either. There have previously been safety net articles referring to EU legislation, such as the Housing Act. Mr Omtzigt has tabled a number of motions. The first is the motion in part No. 27. It invites the government to take the lead in a public-private partnership on a high probability of a no-dealbrexit in order to set up an inspection post in time for the approval of live animals. This motion asks the government to take over a task which lies with the business community. This is a task that we also have strong contact with the business community, which we provide in every possible way but which we do not accept. So I'm going to have to dissuade this motion. The motion in part No. 28 asks the government to have a solution within two weeks for Dutch drivers who have applied for an extension of their driving licence but who, due to the chaos at the CBR, do not have a valid driving licence. This has nothing to do with the Brexit to my best knowledge. So I can't judge this. I can ask my colleague from IenW to give an opinion on this. All I can say is that I can't advise, because I can't judge the motion. But I would like to ask the colleague of IenW to send a letter about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u502	But we are going to vote on this on Tuesday. So I'm gonna see how we...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u503	But I'm also looking at the chairman. Because it really has nothing to do with the Brexit. So all I can say is I'm not going over it, I can ask my colleague...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u504	Mr Omtzigt has two options: to maintain or put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u505	I asked this question yesterday, and I hoped that it would be answered in writing. But that was not the case. I hope to receive a letter or message from the Secretary of State or the Minister of IenW as soon as possible. I don't know who it's from right now. And then we'll look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u506	And shouldn't it be?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u507	At least I'm hoping to get a message for Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u508	I think the judgment is important at the moment, so that others too know where they stand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u509	I can only advise against a motion which I cannot judge until the time has come for the honourable Member to be able to give an opinion on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u510	I understand, but I'm hoping for a quick message from that colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u511	I'll pass that on. Then the motion to part No. 29, by Mr Omtzigt and Mrs Van der Graaf. It notes that the European Commission has already presented a large number of documents on the Brexit preparation website. The motion also states that these measures were well known in advance. And the motion asks the government not to use ministerial arrangements under Article X of the Brexit Collecting Act for these provisions. As firmly as this motion says, I cannot guarantee it. I have already indicated that we will be extremely reluctant and that as an area is more prepared, the chance is less. So the odds are smaller here. Here, however, it remains true that the European Commission, too, is trying to assess precisely how regulation should be adapted in an unknown situation. I cannot guarantee that a European Commission will not overlook any eventuality there either. So as firmly as this motion is now before us, I must advise against it. Mr. Chairman. I hope I have answered the questions in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u512	Thank you. This also brings us to the end of this debate on the Brexit Collecting Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u513	We will vote next Tuesday on the motions tabled, on the Collecting Act and on the amendments. I thank everyone. Before I close the sitting, Mrs Leijten would like to make one more comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u514	In view of the fundamental nature of Article X and the question of what resources we are giving out, I would like to announce that next week I would like to vote by roll call on the amendment to item No. 6 on whether or not to maintain the decree/decision in the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-24-tweedekamer-10.u515	That's what we're gonna do. Thank you. I thank the Minister, I thank the Members of Parliament. I actually thank everyone in the Chamber and the people who have followed this debate.
