ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u1	The next item is the goodbye to Mr Van Oosten from the VVD. I shall begin by reading Mr Van Oosten's letter. "President, dear Khadija, Wednesday February 20th I will be installed as mayor of the municipality of Nissewaard. A beautiful town on the South Holland island of Voorne-Putten. Of course, my appointment gives me a double feeling. Because, it also means that I will leave the House of Representatives on Tuesday, February 19th. That's not easy for me. I look back at a fantastic time of almost six and a half years in which I could contribute every day to make the Netherlands even more beautiful. But, the chance to use me as mayor for the residents of a community I've been in since I was a kid, I couldn't and wouldn't ignore. Mr President, no long farewell speech from me. I just want to say that it was a pleasure every day to be greeted with a happy 'good morning' by our messengers, cleaners, clerks, security guards and all the others who work for us. I would also like to thank my group colleagues and colleagues in the Chamber with whom, among other things, I have been able to draw up own-initiative laws. One person I'd like to name. We have been working together for many years now. Even before we came to the Binnenhof: Onno Spek, thank you very much for your years of commitment!" I don't know where he is? Oh, yeah, in the lodge!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u2	"President, Khadija, I enjoyed it here. I'm sure we'll run into each other again! Greetings, Fever of the East." Thank you!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u3	Dear Lord Van Oosten, dear Foort, At the end of November you announced that you would leave the Chamber to become mayor in the municipality of Nissewaard. Of course it's worth a congratulations. But I have never made it a secret that I am not happy with MPs leaving in the meantime. It's just too bad to have to miss someone who's meant a lot to the Chamber again. Quite recently, for example, you became chairman of the European Commission here in the Chamber. You have also shown the sound of the VVD in many Justice debates. You were particularly concerned with the modernisation of the Code of Criminal Procedure and, together with colleagues, you filed several laws of initiative, some of which have already become law. Unfortunately, you will no longer be able to defend the law revision partner alimony in the First Chamber. Together with Michiel van Veen and Ockje Tellegen you were at your best, I understand. You were known as trinity, as three musketeers. Michiel van Veen introduced you as mayor, but I'm also looking at Ockje. I hope it's a coincidence, not a trend. Foort, As early as it was, you were always enthusiastic: as a Member of Parliament, but no doubt before, when you were in Schiedam council member, group chairman and alderman. And even earlier, when you had the most Dutch side job you can imagine, namely selling smoke sausages at the Hema. Another unsuspecting side of you is that in your spare time you like to visit zoos with your wife and son. Hopefully as mayor of Nissewaard, you'll have time for that hobby. And hopefully you'll be able to do what you prefer to do as a Member of Parliament, as group chairman and also as a lawyer: stand up for the interests of people, and do work that affects people. Take care! And good luck.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-19-tweedekamer-5.u4	It's a little crazy, but we're just gonna vote. It's the last vote for you.
