ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u1	The next item is the budget for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality (Room 35300-XIV). I would like to welcome everyone, the people in the public gallery, the agricultural spokesmen and the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u2	I give the floor to Mr Madlener, the first speaker on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by paying attention to Mrs Vogelaar's death. I've had a lot of debate with her and you're terrified of such a message. So I wish the families and friends very much support in this regard. Mr. Chairman. We are going to talk today about the budget for Agriculture, Nature and Fisheries. But this budget is, of course, completely overshadowed by all the calamity that has plagued our farmers for years. As a political nitrogen blanket it hangs in this room and you feel it everywhere: the discontent grows and grows. The biggest peasant protest in history is really about something. The size is really full now. After all these years of constantly new rules, often coming from Brussels and as a good boy of the class in the Netherlands always so actively transposed into legislation, and after all these years of misery the farmers are really, really angry. It was the fishermen's turn to see their investments and their future go down, and now it is the farmers of this country. The peasants everyone's proud of. At least that's what the political parties claim. But if you're really proud of the farmers or fishermen, you don't treat them to new rules and to new heavy burdens over and over again. Then you don't blame them, but then you stand up for them and then you defy the Brussels bureaucrats. But this cabinet has shown that it does not want anything done in Brussels. Our fishermen have been totally abandoned. It's weak bite and creamer than the Pope. And now it's our farmers' turn. First, there have been years of completely impossible manure rules on the farming sector with an impossible phosphate rights system, which has made the future perspective ever more uncertain and the administrative and financial burden has risen to an enormous extent. Thousands of people are still in trouble who have been seriously affected by totally unfair rules. Politics finally drops them like a brick. And now the legal nitrogen sample has been taken out of the closet to make the farmers smaller again, because that is what is happening. While these same farmers have achieved a huge achievement in the last twenty years by halving nitrogen emissions, they are now suddenly in the middle of a climate hurricane. The cabinet has completely surrendered to the environment and climate of GroenLinks and the foreign study chamber scholars of D66. It is at the mercy of the dreams of the Christian Union and the CDA to always be the goodest boy in the European class. If you look closely, you will also see a small halo appear above their heads. The right-wing counter forces of what was once the VVD have long since been extinct under Mark Rutte's ambitions to become the longest serving prime minister. Mr. Chairman. Actually, there's nothing wrong. Nitrogen emissions have been falling for years and are now stable at a relatively low level. Nature in the Netherlands is not bad at all. Many species are even better than they used to be. Even the wolf is back on the Veluwe and the forests are not affected by acid rain. The air is cleaner than when I was a child and also the water in the many locks and streams does not deteriorate but rather progress in quality. Of course it can always be better, but for a full country like the Netherlands we are not doing very bad and things are not bad with nature. Nature adapts to the circumstances and that is also the power of nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u4	You say that nature is not bad. According to all the official lists, we're at the bottom of Europe. You say the woods are fine. One in ten oaks, still a beautiful Dutch tree, is sick, because there is too much nitrogen in the soil so fungi and other organisms don't work well and the oaks just get too little nutrients and water. How do you see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u5	It's just how you want to look. I live near a nature reserve and I often walk in nature. Look around you! We can see that the air and water are getting cleaner. It's not that bad. We're not a third world country. We are a very busy country, with a lot of activities, with a lot of people. Yet we still have a relatively clean climate. We can breathe clean air. The oaks don't die massively. Of course, a tree will die; that is also nature. But in general, the woods are fine. Your doom, that nature is so bad, I really think it's an exaggeration. Nature's doing pretty well. A lot of species are doing well. Look at the geese in the Netherlands: it is full of geese. The trees are beautiful in leaf. I just think it's an exaggeration. You're using a doom sculpture to catch the farmers now, and that's not right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u6	D66 is based here on scientific researchers who talk about one in ten oaks. I really think that this is a symbol for the Netherlands, just like the grutto, which is not good either. I expected the PVV to include it for this kind of symbols, for those important national trees, a little more. 'Cause the oaks are really not doing well. Think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u7	Look out the window here behind you. I see you talking while I see the trees full of leaves behind you. They look beautiful. They're right in the middle of town. Here we can't remodel the House of Representatives because there would be a nitrogen problem. It's too crazy for words. I'd say go into nature and look for yourself, and it's not so bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u8	I agree with D66 that nature is not doing well at all. In 100 years 80% of plants and animals have disappeared from the Netherlands. I have a question for Mr Madlener. It is about the fact that the air has indeed become cleaner and that the problem of acid rain has disappeared. How is that possible, does Mr Madlener think?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u9	That's because of the fantastic performance of farmers. By now, they emit half less nitrogen than when I was young. Everyone has contributed to this. That is good, and that should also be praised. But we should not exaggerate and say: after all the nitrogen and all the manure rules we have poured out on the farmers, we are now going to get that nitrogen out of the closet again. It's gotta be done sometime. Nature in the Netherlands is not bad at all. Of course, some species do better, others do worse. That's also nature; that's part of it. But you are really going to exaggerate by saying that every human act must not be seen in nature. That's an exaggeration. Nor do other countries in Europe, nor should we.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u10	The problem of acid rain has been solved, not because there were a few farmers who said 'we are joining forces and we are going to solve the problem', but because we have established rules here from the government and from Europe that will reduce environmental pressure. That's exactly what we're here for. You make it sound like it's all gonna happen on its own. That's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u11	I'm afraid of your rules, Mrs. Bromet. I'm afraid of your rules. A new clean car emits ten times less nitrogen than eight years ago. That car has become priceless because of your environmental taxes, priceless. Now we're gonna import used cars massively, because we can't afford that car anymore. We see policy as co-incineration of wood chips. Billions of taxpayers' money are going to be shredded into wood chips, which we have to burn in the Dutch power stations. It's too crazy for words. All extra nitrogen emissions. You do this from the point of view of climate policy. It's too insane for words. Mixing biofuels. It's all not good for nature and that's your policy. I want to act against that. You have to stop bullying the farmers. Mr. Chairman. Nature adapts to the circumstances. That's the power of nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u12	Finish your sentence first, Mr. Madlener.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u13	This was my line.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u14	Oh, that was him? Okay. Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u15	I am a little hesitant, because everything Mr Madlener says is also seen in the debate and comes from the farmers. It doesn't really work if parties like GroenLinks, D66 and the Party for Animals then counter the facts. The first thing I would like to do is to invite the Minister to elaborate on all the claims made here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u16	You will do that in your own contribution, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u17	My question to the PVV Group is then...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u18	Yeah, that's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u19	This is one concrete example in which the PVV Group has chosen to give farmers more space than was justified by nature and the environment: the phosphate debate. Following the abolition of the milk quota, the PVV did not want a production restriction. When action was finally taken, that was a plan of the farmers themselves. LTO, NajK and NZO then wrote their own plan for rules because they were afraid of losing the derogation. So I'm actually just curious what the PVV is sending when she says "they're all your rules." It was the plan of the sector itself that made them send 60,000 cows to slaughter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u20	I think that the current plans do not come from the farmers themselves. It is true that the Netherlands is always being blackmailed with a derogation in Brussels, while we get that derogation because the Netherlands has an environment where more manure can be absorbed; you know that too. We must not let Europe blackmail us. We must not let Europe take away our beautiful agricultural sector. We're doing good. Nature is doing quite well, I hope you agree with me. A lot of species are doing well, too. Let's not think dumb and let's stop bullying the farmers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u21	The point is... I can imagine that a party opposes nature and environmental rules, that you say "The Netherlands is a big city, let's forget about nature." That could be a position.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u22	I don't know who said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u23	But we are dealing with agreements with which the Netherlands has committed itself and with the rule of law. At the moment when it really comes to it, farmers themselves say, so we could see, "then just a phosphate reduction plan." That was LTO, Najk, NZO...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u24	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u25	... and the Rabobank. If the farmers at that time, however flawed they should have foreseen it anyway, say 'let's reduce something, because otherwise it will get much worse', why is the PVV not prepared to acknowledge that there are indeed environmental and nature boundaries that you have to deal with?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u26	I would almost quote Mr Remkes: it is the politics that made a mess of it. However, of course there are environmental rules and we do not want to abolish them all. But what's happening here is we're talking about a nitrogen problem. We're overreacting. They are rules that are much stricter than in Germany and Belgium. A lot of farmers, especially small family farms, are affected by this. That whole danger of nitrogen is really exaggerated. Nature in the Netherlands is not so bad at all. Some parties here want to make it look like the earth is going to end if we don't bully the farmers away, but that's not the way it is. Those are facts, too. The Minister will be able to respond to that later. But Dutch nature isn't that bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u27	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u28	Mr. Chairman. We believe in the power of nature. We see them around us. A little nitrogen is very good for a lot of plants. An excellent ecosystem can also be created in a nitrogen-rich nature. Think of the flowery fields we all want. Those are nitrogen-rich field edges, I can tell you. Nitrogen is also not a poison to the plants at all. It's just nutrition, like CO. Trees and lots of beautiful plants are doing fine. However, my speech is clear: things are not that bad. The only thing that has changed in May is that the accounting rules the Chamber itself made up and wanted, which were the basis for the authorisation, have been killed before the courts. That's changed. Nothing has changed with the farmers. Nothing has changed with nature. No, that's changed. We are facing a legal problem, which means that 18,000 government projects cannot continue and the whole of the Netherlands is locked. And so there's a big panic. Then you would expect the cabinet to solve it by quickly creating new rules or abolishing the rules. But no, then the polder model turns out to be a nightmare. No action is shown, but a committee is set up to facilitate all parties supporting the cabinet. Each party delivers a bureaucrat, then you add some sustainability professors, and go, then you've won months again and the entire coalition is satisfied again. Mr Remkes was allowed as a VVD-coryfee what was given his name by schnabbelen and the committee, and hup, the Remkes Committee was born. Fortunately, Doekle Terpstra and Ed Nijpels were not available, otherwise we would have been able to annoy ourselves again with those politically correct talkers. Mr. Chairman. Of course, the outcome of that committee was no surprise. It was something for every party that supports the coalition. It was politically correct. It was Europeproof. It was environmentally and climate-proof. Everything was in it, except for a solution to the legal impasse that had arisen. There was no emergency law and there was no relaxation of the far too strict rules. None of that. For the time being, the cabinet wants to first facilitate the Europhiles liberal Democrats of D66 and the environmental activists of GroenLinks. Under the slightly uplifting title Not everything can be done, a kind of new coalition chord was presented. That was immediately eagerly taken over by the cabinet. 130 driving on the highway, that can't be anymore. Cows graze on a meadow near a nature reserve, that can no longer be done. You can't do that anymore. You can't do that anymore. Building an open barn to keep your organic business profitable is no longer possible. Making a good living as a small agricultural family farm is no longer possible. But what can be done is the mass cook with wood chips, which means that forests are cut down and a lot more nitrogen is emitted. Whatever is possible is importing hundreds of thousands of kilos of puffy chickens and cage eggs from Ukraine. Whatever is possible is a shady meat deal with South America, which means that jungle is cut and our farmers are competed away. What do you mean better earning model? What can also be done is to increase VAT on primeval Dutch meat, fruit and vegetables. What do you mean better earning model? What can be done is to raise environmental taxes on clean cars, they call environmental taxes! So that we can no longer pay for a new car and the Dutch massively import old used cars from Germany. What do you mean, environmental policy? And what can be done is to leave the borders open and bring hundreds of thousands of new people here every year in our overcrowded country. What do you mean, nitrogen problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u29	I hear Mr Madlener beating wildly around him to all kinds of parties. I will let that pass, but I do have a very specific question. My motion to set up a committee to look at nitrogen, which has become the Remkes Committee, has been supported by the PVV Group. When I hear your story like this, my question is, why?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u30	In May was the verdict. There was a big panic then, but nothing happened for months. The government didn't do anything. If the only viable thing is a motion from your hand to create a committee that hopefully will come out, then we do not have to oppose it. But what comes out? Nothing. The farmers are being bullied. It's coming out. It's about your commission. You should oppose the results of that committee here. You won't. You embrace it. Your government said right: we're going to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u31	It is very special how Mr Madlener is beating around him. Next week we have another debate on nitrogen. Then you will hear the conclusion whether the CDA Group embraces this or not. But what is the solution of the PVV Group? We're dealing with a court order. When I listen to the story of the PVV group, I feel like we have nothing to do with the judiciary in the Netherlands: ignore, just go on, blind, everything is allowed, but not listen to the judiciary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u32	I've already made clear exactly what I want. We have a legal problem. We in the Netherlands have agreed far too strict rules. The PAS would soften some of that, but it's now dead. So we need to relax those rules. We need to find a solution not in bullying farmers or in driving them away, but in relaxing the rules. You yourself come up with a proposal for a threshold, as Germany does. Fine! That's the solution. Surely we do not need a Remkes committee to come forward with worthless proposals after six months? That should have happened! The government could have done that by now. We must not let Brussels and our own beautiful sector drive us out of the country, but we must stand up for ourselves. As with fishermen, we should not be belittled by Brussels. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. I'm gonna have to get a little cynical now. For it is precisely those small and medium-sized family businesses that are affected by the strict environmental rules. On the contrary, they are often close to the many Natura 2000 sites we have. They still have relatively small numbers of cattle and do not have the millions to invest in hermetically sealed industrial megassages with air scrubbers. I now show the article in The Financial Daily about the opening of the first Remkesproof stable. I believe it contains 33,000 pigs. I'll show the article to the Minister, too. It's all hermetically sealed, and it's huge numbers. This is really some kind of industry. This is bio-industry! This is Remkesproof. And this is what we get. I don't know who wants this, but we don't want this. We have a small, beautiful sector with family businesses. We don't need $20 million worth of gas that has been sealed down, with all the chance of a stable fire. Mr. Chairman. We want to support these small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. They are now so valuable to our country and our landscape, Mr. De Groot. They can maintain those beautiful wood walls and bloom all those beautiful flowery fields. This policy will once again lead to a further increase in scale. This is bad for entrepreneurs, bad for young farmers, bad for our landscape and bad for animal welfare. Mr. Chairman. I ask the cabinet to stop this poldering with the environmental fundamentalists and the people who want to talk to us about flesh shame and not listen to D66 and GroenLinks. I ask the cabinet to relax the rules on nitrogen. The Netherlands does not need to have the strictest rules in Europe. We do not need to be stricter than Germany and Belgium. We need to stand by our entrepreneurs. We really need to stand behind our farmers and cut off the excessive rules that are breaking so much. It is only when you do that that you can rightly say: we are proud of our farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u33	Thank you, Mr. Madlener. I now give the floor to Mr Graus, also on behalf of the PVV. They're hugging. Nice to meet you, too. Mr. Graus,...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u34	Madam President, good morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u35	... do you always start hugging?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u36	With Barry I always hug, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u37	Oh! Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u38	I don't want to think about hugging some people, but with Barry, I'd love to do it. Madam President. The most important part for me is, of course, animal welfare. I once went into the Chamber for that, to be a representative of the people, or 'animal representative', I actually have to call it. From the Wilders Group, in 2005, 2006 we asked for the fundamental rights of animals to be enshrined in the Constitution. We did that together with GroenLinks, but GroenLinks is currently blocking my own initiative law. I can't do anything right now, because the initiative law has been put in place by GroenLinks. I have it ready too, but Bureau Legislation does not allow me because GroenLinks has been freezing it for so many years. Maybe the Minister could take action? How can the Minister guarantee the rights of animals in the Constitution? That is very essential for us. We started that once as Group Wilders. I'm a first-hour boy, and so is Barry. Afterwards, of course, it became the Party for Freedom, but by the way, it should always have been the Wilders Group. But that's not the case. I call on GroenLinks to release that law, because we would like to submit it. Basically, we can't do anything right now. Why has he been blocked for so many years, over ten years? I'll probably hear about that later. The current Animal Law recognises the intrinsic value of the animal and assures some needs, but with the growing number of serious ill-treatments and the undersized, laughable community punishments, which are truly scandalous......................................................................................................................................................................................................... So it's necessary. Madam President. Soon, during a general consultation, an AO Animal Welfare, two petitions will be presented to the Minister by Mrs Gerda van den Wijngaert and Mr Michiel Mulder. That's two civilians. I don't know how many tens of thousands of signatures I've collected, because everyone's sick of it: if you tie a dog to a tree somewhere in the middle of the summer and let him starve to death and drown, you'll just get a community service of 100 hours or 50 parole. Those people are going to jail! They must be put in jail, on water and bread, and be banned from keeping animals for a lifetime. That's how animal executioners should be dealt with. I won't die until I do, though I'll have to become a minister or secretary of state myself someday. But that's a pretty small chance, so I'm gonna leave it to this minister, our deputy prime minister. Animalia does not need to have the same rights as homo sapiens, human beings, but once we deprive animals of their freedom, they are entitled to an animal-worthy life. Babies and other commercially incompetent people without awareness and even criminals have rights. Even criminals! Why don't animals have them? They have never harmed a fly and are all born healthy and well, without evil in them. Because all animals are born good and sweet. Why don't animals have rights? Minister, please give me an answer, and please take action. I trust it, also as a shepherd of your sheep, because this is the Minister of Animal Welfare and the Deputy Prime Minister of our country, and also a religious man. Whether you believe in evolution or in the creation story: animals were there before humans, whatever you believe in. As with the latter, the trade-incompetent people, this can be exercised, for example, by having those rights by legally competent representatives. On 17 May 2002, the Bundestag decided to include animal protection in the Constitution with a two-thirds majority in Germany. The Germans! We're behind on everything. Minister Weiss is also passing us on all sides. Even in Bulgaria. In Bulgaria I myself was allowed to be present at the introduction of the full-time animal police. And what are we doing here? We have a full-time animal police. It's one big success. But no, he's a brainchild from the PVV and so we're gonna turn it into parttimers and preferably we're gonna kill them. Party politics on the back of defenseless animals. It's just outrageous. And that while the animal police, according to a former chief of police, is one of the most successful units, you shouldn't say that anymore, but let me call it that among the national police. Those teams are so successful. They do a lot of things about undermining crime. When you invade an animal executioner, you also encounter arms trafficking and trafficking in human beings, trafficking in money and dogs, and dog fights. They're just assholes, and they just need to be dealt with. And that's what you do by protecting animals. Are you all right, Madam President?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u39	I'm all awake.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u40	Thank you. I thought you were after Barry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u41	Also.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u42	Thank you. I would ask the Minister to come up with a proposal that at least the five freedoms be free from hunger, thirst, pain and call them all better guaranteed in the Constitution. Furthermore, I would once again ask that, of course in cooperation with the Ministry and the Minister of Justice and Security, a life-long ban on the keeping of animals should be introduced after conviction. A life-long ban, also as an independent sentence. Did you assault an animal? Then you have no right to keep an animal. They're sick idiots. They're recidivists. They need to be dealt with. You shouldn't put another innocent animal in the hands of such an idiot. Mr. Von Martels? Sorry, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u43	Mr. Von Martels.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u44	Yes, Mr. Chairman, but indeed through you. In my opinion, Mr Graus has a one-sided story about animal welfare: in all cases, those who commit the offence must be punished more severely.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u45	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u46	But doesn't that have a social problem? And shouldn't we look at how that came about? I don't think it's gonna help just to punish him harder. Does Mr Graus agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u47	That's right. I myself contributed this during other budget treatments LNV. Suppose a peasant loses his wife; his son drives the bike into a tree. This guy's gonna end up in psychosocial trouble. Such a man must be helped, because he is going to neglect himself and indeed his livestock. But that man, by definition, is not an animal executioner. I've always made that exception. I'm talking about the bastards who tie a dog to a tree in Rijswijk in the middle of the summer. I mentioned it. They're assholes. They make dogs starve to death. You're not gonna do that with the biggest criminal. Those people, you just gotta be tough on them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u48	In any case, I am glad that Mr Graus himself has the nuance. It is not a question on my part, but an observation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u49	That's what I've always said. Those people don't belong directly to the animal executioners for me either. These are people who have fallen into decline because of circumstances themselves. They also need psychological, psychiatric, help. That's what I said myself. I'm talking about animal executioners, willful animal executioners, who are sick in their heads. They are often born this way, Mr. von Martels. You're not gonna change that anymore. If you don't respect animals, you can forget about it. I also want a professional ban if there is a work-related contact with animals. Think, for example, of the slaughterhouse owner who recently beat a veterinarian of the NVWA, of the Minister, i.e. of the Dutch Food and Waren Authority, against the plains. She's got a head wound. That dear lady will never come back to work. She is a hero, for she has not departed from the harassment of that slaughterhouse owner, who has even more on his back. That woman's home sick now. I hope to be able to visit her soon. I find it outrageous. A man like that should be banned from the profession. You just don't touch our vets with your thumbs. Especially those abattoir owners just have to dim down. They need to get back in their booth, with their big mouths. I'm really sick of it. I hope the Minister will do something about that. Maybe I could go and see that woman with the minister. Then we'll do something good together. Then we'll micromanage. Because every human being and every animal is important. It doesn't always have to be about the big structure. We want more forensics on suspicious dead animals through our Veterinary Forensic Team, not just through the National Expertise Center Animal Abuse. That's what happened to me. That was a motion in which Mrs Ouwehand also supported me. We have always argued for an LED, a national animal welfare centre of expertise or a national animal cruelty centre. That's just coming from us. There is now, but they're blocking the Animal Forensics Squad. That's the first veterinary forensic doctor in Europe. That's unbelievable, isn't it? So I'd like it to be housed there. That makes sense, because those people work at far lower rates than the LED or the NFI. For a CT scan, the NFI pays €1,750. The VFT only pays €200 for it. So they also work much cheaper. It's really unbelievable that we're not looking at that. The same applies to MPs. It's about public money. So we have to help that Veterinary Forensic Team, because that also works much cheaper and better. They are the only experts in this field. This certainly applies to Dr. Van der Goot, known worldwide and an authority, and Monique Verkerk, the vet. At the AO NVWA I come back to the maintenance of the animal welfare team of the NVWA, so I am not going to go into that now. Then I come to compulsory labelling of products with ritual or religiously slaughtered animals until the ban is in place. That ban's gonna happen someday. Trust me. People don't want that at all. Most people are fierce against the ritual torture of animals. Only the people's representatives are wrong, because the people are not represented on this issue. That's why we just have to hang in there. It'll come on its own. I was also laughed at for 20 years about the animal police. Now there is and there is one great success. They'll keep me out of it. That's how it's done here. Then a ban on "trophy hunt" travel and better protection of the lion within CITES. The lion is now on list 2 and has to go to list 1 for the highest protection against trophy hunt. The massive trade in cheetahs to camel countries, where they are mistreated as pets, must also be addressed. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. I would like the Minister, or her officials, to get in touch with Simone Eckhardt of the SPOTS Foundation, who is fully involved in the trade in cheetahs. I hope to go to Africa with her someday. She knows all about this. Now the time is too short to explain it all, so I'd like to put Simone Eckhardt in touch with the Ministry. We also want CITES to apply to trade-bred exotics. We want the establishment of an expertise centre of rodents, to prevent gnaw fires, plus a test stall with the "Stable Safe" system, which allows pigs to flee, for example. If a fire breaks out and the smoke detectors go off, the pressure of the feeding system causes bulkheads to fall out, allowing the pigs to run away. They have to be able to run. Smoke detectors and sprinkler systems are pointless. You'll get more smoke and then they'll choke before the fire department gets here. It's all bullshit. The animals must be able to flee. That's the point. I talked to the fire department. I know exactly what's going on. So that's what I'd like to do. I want Dr. Weijman involved in that knowledge center on gnaw fires and rodents. He's the only real rodent specialist. He's also a rat specialist. He even calls the rat an evolution champion. We need to get that gentleman involved in this. I would like to make a commitment on this, because you can easily do that, I say through the President. Then the approach to animal abuse within the overseas municipalities. Those overseas municipalities are just Gaul villages that don't do anything about animal welfare. They just have to abide by our laws and regulations. Animals are too short chains and are being abused, and nothing is being done about it. There must be an end to these Gaul villages. There too, I would like the Minister to take action: the same animal protection laws should apply here. We want the animal welfare team of the NVWA, the Member and the Green Boas to be assigned to the Ministry of Justice and Security, while maintaining the budget from the budget of Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality. I would like that, and so would my group. I'd like to receive a response to that. We want the green boas to be armed in the fight against heavily armed poaching gangs. That is what we have been asking for for 13 years. Sometimes it takes too long for the police to get around, and then they're on their own. We want animal cruelty to be seen as a qualified crime, differentiated in terms of punishment. Now animal cruelty only falls under the category of "light crime'. We also want municipalities to be able to close up premises of illegal dog dealers and dubious slaughterhouses more quickly. This question is actually in line with my previous story. I have already asked for a professional ban, but also a municipality must move faster to close down all those nasty torture buildings. Perhaps the Minister can do this in collaboration with the Association of Dutch Municipalities. Madam President. Each time it appears that animals play a leading role in the undermining crime. Most of the money is made worldwide by animal, drug, human and arms trafficking. I just said that. Sick puppies arrive, drugs go back. The PVV wants this minister, together with the Minister of Justice and Security, not by column, but over all flows at the same time, to place the illegal trade in animals and dog fights with teams dealing with seriously undermining crime in the long term. Finally, Madam President. I'd like to offer the Minister a file on Mrs. Marieke de Lorijn. That has to do with the cascade in guinea pigs. There is almost no medication for guinea pigs anymore, so there has to be some kind of clarification and broadening of the cascade, so guinea pigs can also get good medication. I would like to offer this to the Minister. I'd like to receive a response to that. It will then come to the general consultation Animal welfare. We're in favour of antibiotic reduction. It came from ourselves, but the place shouldn't be locked. Finally. I was at KLM's 100-year celebration last Monday. There I immediately walked bam! At first position: Wings for Animals. This was set up by stewardesses of our national pride of the blue swan, the KLM. There's also a female commander of a 737 on the board. I've met these women I almost wanted to say "girls" because they all looked young and fresh, and I'm going to work for them. And since the government and the State are co-owners and shareholders of KLM, I would like to ask for recognition of Wings for Animals. Because they're running into walls. Then there is the final point, Madam President. There's a tiger, this is the last sentence of "Buenos Aires," which has to be transported as a matter of urgency. It's in a closed zoo. It must be transported urgently to Johannesburg via Amsterdam. We want KLM to take care of that. Help those ladies of Wings for Animals and also Hellemans, a well-known Dutch vet, who is also known from television. Please help them and intercede in to get that tiger safely on a reservation in Johannesburg as soon as possible, so he's out of that torture chamber he's in right now. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u50	Thank you, Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u51	See you later today!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u52	Sure, thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Lodders on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u53	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by joining with the condolences, such as Mr Madlener who has just done in the direction of Mrs Vogelaar's next of kin. I fully endorse this on behalf of my group. Mr. Chairman. May I begin with a compliment? Today and tomorrow we are discussing the agricultural budget in this Chamber and your timing is perfect. This budget treatment falls in the middle of the week of Dutch food and next Saturday it will be Thank a Farmer Day. These are fine initiatives, in which we pay particular attention to the strength of Dutch agriculture. I'm deliberately saying extra. Because appreciation for our farmers and gardeners is in place every day. Our Dutch farmers and growers produce good quality food at an affordable price. The Dutch agricultural sector has the lowest environmental impact compared to other countries per kilogram of product. Despite this fine performance, the sector is under pressure in imaging. That's not right. The Dutch agro-sector guarantees global solutions to the global food problem. Both as a producer and as a country, we have the right knowledge and innovative power to produce efficient and sustainable food. In the Netherlands this contribution is sometimes underestimated. Farmers and gardeners feel underappreciated, while the rest of the world praises the sector for its knowledge. May I share some facts with you? The Netherlands is the second agro-exporter of agricultural products. Total exports amount to EUR 90 billion. 9% of exports are innovation and technological knowledge. The market share of agriculture is over 18%. 9% of people work in the agri-food chain. I can't name another sector that invests so much in R&D. In the last year alone, expenditure on it has increased by 17%. The Dutch agricultural and horticultural sector accounts for 5% of the total energy consumption, but at the same time accounts for more than 40% of the rural production of renewable energy. In the field of innovation, too, the sector is leading the way. In 2018, 16 agri-food companies were in the SME Innovation Top 100. About 52% of our land area is used by agriculture and horticulture. Until 2012, most agricultural land was extracted for housing and industrial estates. In recent years we have seen this shift: more and more land is being extracted for greenery and less and less for construction. Everywhere in the world one looks with admiration at Dutch agriculture and horticulture. There is much appreciation for our knowledge. The Netherlands is one of the world's leading producers in sectors such as horticulture, pig farming and the dairy industry. Well, that can be explained. The Netherlands is a small country and farmers have to run their farms in a relatively limited space. It's gonna take peasant smartness. Despite the regular headwinds and the difficult challenges, the sector succeeds in making significant changes. The innovative power contributes to this. This is important not only for the Netherlands, but also for the rest of the world. A combination of Dutch techniques, such as seed and plant breeding, greenhouse and barn systems and water management, is a golden opportunity to use our knowledge and innovation in other parts of the world, where population growth and demand for food are increasing. In countries like China there is demand for many new techniques. In China 20% of people live, but only 9% of the country can be used as agricultural land. It is precisely there that every hectare must be used to the full. In the Middle East, where there is little fresh water, tomatoes are grown with Dutch greenhouses. Agriculture also plays an important role in geopolitics, because there is a link between food and peace. Mr. Chairman. The Minister, with her budget and the direction of circular agriculture agreed in the government agreement, seems to focus mainly on the region. The approach to food waste and the use of regional products are examples of this. It is fine to pay attention to this, but at the same time we must not forget our position in the rest of the world. This is really not just about the economic usefulness and the people who have jobs in this beautiful sector. It is also about the added value that the Netherlands can offer in terms of climate, environment and nature. After all, with highly productive and efficient agriculture, despite the growing demand for food, there remains room for urban and green development. The Centre for Strategic Studies, a think tank for safety and geopolitics, does a lot of research and analysis, including in the field of agrofood. I ask the Minister to reflect on the international significance of our agriculture and horticulture and how she can ensure that information, such as the Agrofood Monitor, is made more accessible to business. Mr. Chairman. Current events call for a debate on the problem of nitrogen. Next week is the debate in the Chamber on this matter. I'm just starting to think you're planning. My colleague Mark Harbers will be responsible for this debate, but in anticipation of that I would like to say a few things on behalf of my group and ask a number of questions. The VVD insists that farmers are not the culprits of the present nitrogen problems. On the contrary, the efforts that farmers have made over the past ten or twenty years to reduce nitrogen emissions, but also other substances, deserves a great compliment. For example, since 1990 nitrogen emissions in agriculture have fallen by 64%. However, farmers can contribute to the solution. The only way we can do that is to work together and not stand opposite each other. For the VVD that solution is voluntary. That means that if a farmer wants to quit his business, or invest in his company, the government can help with this. Although the cabinet insists that all efforts are voluntary, the cabinet letter is not read in this way. There is a lot of uncertainty and that leads to unrest. I can imagine that very well. The letter doesn't answer a lot of questions. Take the external netting. The chaos seems complete now that the province in the formulation of the policy rule goes beyond the agreements with the minister. Can the Minister comment on this and give a clear definition of what is meant by external netting for next week's debate? Then there's the uncertainty about measurements and calculation models. My irritation grows, and I just get angry again when organizations that advise the government, such as the RIVM or the Planning Office for the Environment, are shy about measurements, about calculation models or calculations. These organisations must offer all the openness and transparency required. It's crazy that a foundation like the Mesdag Fund should go to court to get an insight into these calculation models. Can I assume that the Minister wholeheartedly agrees with the VVD that any kind of fog should be avoided? And can parties who so request expect all cooperation from, in this example, the RIVM? In addition to being open, I would also ask the Minister to make measurements in practice as soon as possible. Because measuring is knowing. In the second period, which is not customary, I will table a motion to strengthen this call, which should lead to more insight into measurements and the calculation models should be more focused on practice. I would ask that foreign experience, such as the Danish model, be taken into account. All efforts are needed to find out what goals we really need to achieve. The conservation objectives of the Birds and Habitats Directives have been overgrown by national additions. I would like to hear from the Minister how, in anticipation of the second opinion of the Remkes Committee, she has already taken up this issue herself. The letter also mentions a number of other measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u54	Mr Futselaar is getting impatient. He's working on all kinds of sign language in my direction. Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u55	Mr. Chairman. I'm keeping my head down, so I can only communicate with you non-verbally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u56	That's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u57	I'll come back to the RIVM, a few sentences back, and the measurements. I would like to ask the VVD, but I might as well ask the CDA: since they are going to carry out conspiracy theories, are they going to advocate the moon landing and, for example, the flatness of the earth? I really think this is going very far. Last Monday, I was at the University of Amsterdam, and I am also a spokesperson for Science, and that is why this is high in my mind, and there they said: one of the major problems at the moment is the question of scientific research. That's exactly what's happening here. My question is: what is the VVD doing?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u58	The VVD wants openness and transparency about what is used to formulate policies. When we talk about calculation models and measurements in practice, I think that everyone in this country has a right to know how they take place. This means that RIVM should open the hood in this respect and should show what is being done. That's what I'm asking. I'm not fighting what RIVM says. I ask for that openness and clarity. Surely it cannot be that shady calculation models or otherwise are the basis of policy? Nor would Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u59	No, and so RIVM sets data and they are also available, just as measurements are made in practice. If researchers don't come to appointments to look under the hood that happened with the Mesdag Foundation and the RIVM. then you can't see what's in the hood. But there's a huge fuss going on right now. There are organizations that speak of the corrupt RIVM. You can't let that pass as a political party without abandoning it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u60	Mr Futselaar did not hear me speak of the corrupt RIVM. I'd like him to take that back. I won't say that either. I am concerned about openness about calculation models. There are other organizations in this country that advise the government. There is no misunderstanding or ambiguity about figures. Why? Because that is where transparency takes place. That's what I'm asking. That is my question to the Minister. I find it shocking, whether it is the Foundation Mesdagfonds or any other organization in the past, there have been other examples of such organisations having to go to court to enforce openness.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u61	Finally, Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u62	For the record, I did not accuse Mrs Lodders of talking about a corrupt RIVM. I have just said that there are organisations that express that kind of thing and that I think that we, as a Chamber, should distance ourselves from it. So there's a difference. I don't think the Mesdag Foundation has gone to court, although they are very good at sending press releases about the RIVM. I don't have any evidence, and there's no reason for RIVM to be shady about its models. I wonder where the VVD, where Mrs Lodders, gets that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u63	I've got those signals. If Mr Futselaar had followed the statements of the VVD well, he would know that it is not just about looking under the hood. I also think that in the Netherlands we do not make enough real measurements in practice. That is my second question to the Minister. I shall put forward a motion on that in second place. In countries around us, including Europe, the nitrogen deposition is measured. I think it is extremely important to know what is actually happening in practice. At the moment when we have been measured and we can include the results in our deliberations, we can also make very targeted policies. I know Mr Futselaar as someone who takes that seriously. I assume that such a motion on additional measurements can be supported in practice, so that we can make sure that we do the right things on that basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u64	Mr. Chairman. I have been able to experience the VVD Group for a long time in the Committee on Agriculture, with Mrs Lodders as spokesman. We do not trust almost a week goes by or an attack, organised by the industry itself, by those who call themselves scientific journalists and who say to the Minister all the time: what you have seen about the effects of pesticides, about the emission standards of phosphate, about nitrogen or what it actually is. The VVD constantly instructs the Ministry to say: you must respond to this and we do not really have that much confidence in it. Isn't it just time for the VVD to link the consequence and give up confidence in the minister when she has so little fiduciacy in the data that comes from the ministry and in the policy that the minister then wants to draw on it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u65	My group very much likes to base itself on facts. I think you meant plant protection products, but that's not what your question is about. Your question is about RIVM, for example. I asked the Minister this question. I hope to hear from the Minister tomorrow that she fully agrees with the VVD Group when it comes to organisations such as RIVM or the PBL, the Planning Office for the Environment. We have already had a number of examples in recent years. I have asked questions about how they are getting information together with GroenLinks, Mrs Bromet's predecessor. Let's make that transparent, please. Only then will we have confidence from the ground up and can we do the good things.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u66	I do care about the pattern. The VVD Group is in fact constantly questioning everything that comes from the Ministry, which even points to a limit on the size of livestock farming in the Netherlands or how much agricultural poison we can use. That seems like an unworkable situation. My party also has critical questions to the Minister, but they are more in the area of: why don't you deal with the available knowledge? So I think it's a weird position. I think that the VVD should stop doing so once, because Mrs Lodder's plea began with the clarity that farmers expect. That is not possible if you constantly question the available knowledge.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u67	I do not recognize myself at all in the line that Mrs Ouwehand sketches. As soon as it is needed, we ask questions. I think it's important to do the right thing. I would like to say to Mrs Ouwehand: follow what I have been doing over the past few years. There are a lot of things in this minister's policy that I can put forward with positivity. I think that we have also included this in the paragraph on agriculture in the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u68	Mrs Lodders is speaking on behalf of the VVD for Dutch agriculture. At the same time, at the moment, one third of farmers live below the poverty line and five farmers stop every day. Last week there were thousands of farmers here on the Malieveld. The farmers announced that they would occupy the Binnenhof next week. I would like to know from Mrs Lodder how she looks at the downside of the success of the Dutch agricultural policy and the role that the VVD has played in it in recent years as a government party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u69	I think I have just indicated how my group views farmers and the role of farmers in society; their role as food producers. It is not only limited to the Netherlands. I believe that we also have a very important value outside the Netherlands and outside Europe. I think it is extremely important to put that forward and to put it forward. I think Mrs Bromet can agree with her party GroenLinks. I would like us to be able to pull this together, to market this knowledge and the innovations that we have here to make the Netherlands a little cleaner, elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u70	That's what GroenLinks wants. We also think it is important to export the lessons learned about efficient livestock farming, but not about environmental taxes. I do not hear Mrs Lodder say anything about the problems that are now piling up and which are a resultant of years of VVD policy. I just hear her say something about nitrogen. My question is actually: is this misery that is now emerging and is leading to all these demonstrations only because of the nitrogen policy, or is there anything else underneath it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u71	No, Mr. Chairman, there's more under there. In recent years, farmers and gardeners have been confronted with rule of law, and I can only say that GroenLinks has participated in this at times. Sometimes we face an important challenge and we have to formulate policies on it. Then the VVD also takes responsibility. For example, phosphate rights, the introduction of the phosphate rights system. But we also have a lot of rules that the VVD does not like. Let me give you the example of the seed coating of the beet seed. A beautiful, innovative development that is possible in the countries around us, but not in the Netherlands. These are very fragile examples, I say towards GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u72	Mrs Lodders is right to say that there are a lot of things we should be proud of. Hardworking farmers, the level of knowledge: there is a lot to be proud of. At the same time, however, we must also recognise that these farmers operate in a system that encourages them to really go up to the borders and cross borders, a system that aims to maximize production and reduce costs. If Mrs Lodder were right, those farmers would not be protesting now. Then they wouldn't worry about their survival. We wouldn't have had a problem with manure for 30 years. My question to Mrs Lodders is whether she wants to be aware of these issues. How are we going to solve these issues in a sustainable way, so that we can give farmers security of living, but also a better ecological balance?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u73	I think that is a fair question from Mr Moorlag. We have included in our electoral programme, and that has also been the subject of the government agreement, that we consider it very important, for example, that manure legislation should be reviewed. There are now far too many restrictions for the farmer and gardener to use animal manure as a green fertilizer. It is my great wish that we can use animal manure instead of fertilizer. I do not need to explain to Mr Moorlag that the fertilizer plants in the Netherlands are actually the largest industrial natural gas consumers. If we can tackle that problem with each other, it's gonna make a lot of profit. There are more examples of what we should review in that manure legislation, giving farmers more room to deal with fertilisers in a different way. I think that's very important. I'd like to seduce farmers. What I have seen in the past few weeks is that a number of parties are going to stand opposite the farmers. That won't help, and then we won't get them into a desired change.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u74	I agree with Mrs Lodders on that last point. That polarization is just bad for our country. If everyone locks themselves up in their own right, we won't get anywhere. But then I would also call on Mrs Lodders not only to look for it in technology and in questioning standards and research methods. I also call on her not to close her eyes to the fundamental problems, which are systemic: we simply overstimulate farmers to produce for a much too low income, under conditions that are not sustainable in this society. My question to Mrs Lodder is whether she is prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u75	Certainly, Mr President, but for my group, innovation is an extremely important element. I shall come back to that in a moment and give some examples, because that is the key to success.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u76	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u77	In the letter, because I had stayed there, a number of other measures are mentioned, such as circular agriculture and land orientation. My question to the Minister is whether she wishes to state clearly that circular agriculture will become a guiding but not a legal obligation, and that the government's commitment must be above all to seduce it. That temptation requires two things. This is not only money such as subsidies or tax regulations and a fair price for products, but also all the laws and rules that hinder innovation first of all. Cleaning up laws and rules is a world to win. My group has so often highlighted the frustration of entrepreneurs, inventors and start-ups: viscous, long procedures to reduce emissions from stables or manure; one-sided assessment, ignoring the safety of farmers and their environment. Mr President, I would like to announce an own-initiative paper on this subject, with which we are putting forward a number of concrete proposals to speed up this dossier. I hope to return to this before the end of the year. In the meantime, I have heard from a number of colleagues that they are happy to participate in this. I'm gonna go a little further, Mr. Chairman, but I can see the bell. When we talk about seduction, it doesn't help if we read the report of the Task Force on Earning Power Circulation Agriculture; a task force that talks about pesticides and damage caused by common agriculture, proposes a climate and environmental tax and proposes new sustainability requirements. Then you stand far from practice and feed the feeling of a lack of appreciation. Last week, farmers, gardeners, fishermen, transporters, workers and many other people expressed their displeasure in the Agra action, the biggest farm demonstration I have ever seen. They have received a great deal of sympathy from people in the country in this action. They ask for appreciation and support for the sometimes difficult task they face. Let's get to work on that. Initiatives dealing with future-proof food productions, such as Stichting Veldleeuwerik, are not supported. It is a shame that this kind of initiative should stop. I've talked to involved people who send a signal over and over, but they're being ignored. If people want an experimental space for harvesting beet leaves for protein production, they also run into walls. So I ask the Minister to show on these kinds of initiatives that we really have a Ministry of Agriculture, of sustainable, innovative agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u78	I have a comment and a question. When it comes to circular agriculture, Mrs Lodders will agree with me that if you want to break down laws, the VVD D66 on her side should also clarify what it should be. That's my point. My question is about measuring is knowing. There, too, the VVD finds D66 at her side.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u79	Your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u80	Now the inhabitants around Schiphol and Lelystad also want to know about nitrogen and particulate matter. Can we hang out there together?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u81	I've been asking about measuring is knowing. When we talk about nitrogen deposition, we need to measure much more. I await the Minister's response. I'll file the motion tomorrow. I already announced that. Perhaps we can discuss this together and you can support such a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u82	It's beautiful. The residents around Schiphol and Lelystad will rejoice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u83	Thank you, Mrs Lodders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u84	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleague's moving on now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u85	Mr Weverling on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u86	Mr. Chairman. In our small and densely populated country, we must continue to search for the balance between nature on the one hand and space for living, working and living on the other. As far as the VVD is concerned, more attention should be paid to urban greenery, such as green roofs, facades, beers and school squares. Realising more greenery in our cities and villages contributes to the well-being of people and animals and it is good for our biodiversity. In addition, green also ensures the capture of fine dust, the absorption of CO, more water storage and shadow spots. Each and every reason to want more green in our environment. It's more than decoration. Fortunately, last year the House of Representatives adopted a VVD motion to come up with inventive ideas for greening our living environment with young professionals. I am pleased that the Minister in the AO Nature of 12 September has undertaken to implement this part of the motion as well. Is there any idea when this hackaton, that's what I'm calling it, will take place with young green professionals? A testing ground in which innovative ideas are also discussed is the Floriade of 2022 in Almere. This time the Floriade focuses on the theme Growing Green Cities and that offers opportunities; opportunities for all participating countries and opportunities for the Netherlands to show what we have. Wouldn't it be nice if, with this world garden exhibition, we could think even better about living in urbanized areas and in deltas? Indeed, there are hundreds of cities worldwide that also have challenges in the areas of fine dust and CO reduction. It is therefore a unique opportunity to show with projects how in the Netherlands we build nature including and create space for a lot of functions on a small surface. Feeding the inhabitants of those cities is also a challenge. The world population is growing over the next decades and we have known for centuries how we produce food near cities with urban farms around the corner. Think of our own seven Greenports. This unique knowledge is worth global gold. It is therefore important that at the Floriade we not only show how to green cities and how well we can build nature inclusive, but also that we show that it is really a world garden exhibition. So we need to show how our horticultural technology can feed the population efficiently and sustainably. Does the Minister consider that sufficient is being done to make it truly a horticultural exhibition? The goals of the Netherlands are perfectly in line with the goals of the Floriade. So we all own this beautiful international exhibition. To emphasise that further, I would like to go to Floriade with the Minister. If I've been properly introduced, she hasn't visited the location yet. Is the Minister willing to put on the boots and go with me to the area in Almere? I mean to go there now that the Floriade is under construction, and not when it's finished. Then I get to the green outside villages and cities. There too, we have a huge task with each other. Simply there must be more trees, forests and vegetation. So we are eagerly looking forward to the forest strategy. In the Netherlands we have many TBOs, ground-based organisations, such as the provincial landscapes, Natural Monuments and State Forests. There are also hundreds of land owners, united in the FPG. There you have 200,000 hectares of landscape in your possession. During the AO Nature the Minister promised me to come up with an inventory of possible land available. Is the Minister also prepared to talk to the FPG, the Federation Private Property and let the Chamber know how many hectares one could contribute there? I have good hopes that the members of this federation too will contribute even more to a greener Netherlands than they are today, in order to make the forest strategy a success. All those private owners of estates, forest and nature reserves also have a lot of visitors' visit. In many cases, private landowners themselves employ boas for public space and security, and to manage the visit of recreants. Unfortunately, fewer and fewer green boas are available, and many demands are being made for their training and equipment. Does the Minister agree with me that we should bear both the greed and the burden? How does the Minister intend to shape this? Is she willing to take a serious look at the possibility of using 500 members of the Hunter Association as a boa? Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is an international leader in innovative agriculture and horticulture, maritime industry, technology and advanced water management. Often, the whole world is served from a number of strong Dutch regions. That is why it is a good thing that we have created the regional deals, because it is happening in the regions. This week is the European Week of the region. The theme is: regions and cities, pillars of the future. We have a number of innovative regions in the Netherlands which are a perfect example of this. They are regions that combine local involvement with international impact. They are regions where synergies between companies and knowledge institutions ensure that a place is claimed on the world stage, without losing sight of the importance. For example, the Brainport Eindhoven, where more than 65,000 people work daily on digitization, robotization, big data and other new technologies, and also the local football club is sponsored. Think of the Seed Valley in North Holland, the Foodvalley in Gelderland and the seven green ports distributed across our country, where we are working on tomorrow's world food supply. Think also of the region of Leiden-Noordwijk, which has developed into a European knowledge centre in space and aviation technology and where students from Leiden and Delft can find work. I also mention the Drechtsteden, the leading maritime manufacturing industry, where thousands of people work every day. These are all examples of the strength of the Dutch regions at international level. This global innovative power of the regions is unique and we need to strengthen it further. But we must continue to give this innovation, sometimes literally, the space: ample job for innovation and learning from the strength of our regions. As far as I am concerned, there are many of the solutions we need to design and move our country smartly, and to help the world with our smart solutions. Not only in the Netherlands, but also in the rest of the world, we work with our innovative companies to shape the future in a sustainable way. For example, 40% of all vegetables that are eaten worldwide are grown with seed from the Netherlands. With new technologies, the Netherlands can sustainably feed the growing world population. Our seed growers develop seeds that provide vegetables that are more resilient and therefore require fewer plant protection products. Unfortunately, the European Court is blocking the further roll-out of the CRISPR-Cas technique, which is putting Europe at a disadvantage. Can the Minister indicate how the current lobby is going to make this possible? And how can we prevent products that are consumed outside Europe by means of CRISPR-Cas from being sold in Europe, which actually creates a level playing field for our market? Non-encompassing CRISPR-Cas is an example of how unnecessary rules prevent sustainable innovations. Fortunately, my VVD colleague Jan Huitema in Brussels managed to agree that the recording of patents on natural properties of plants is no longer possible. The natural properties of fruit and vegetables are therefore freely accessible and this is good for global food supply. I would like to hear the Minister's appreciation of the resolution adopted in the European Parliament. Finally, the fisheries sector. The ban on pulses, the Brexit and the landing obligation are all things that do not make the lives of our fishermen easier. It is a good thing that the European Court of Justice is now bringing an action for annulment of the ban on pulses. Scientifically-based innovations and technological developments have been taken away from fishermen and it is good that a court ruling is reached on this. A future perspective for the fish farming sector is very important. It is a good thing that our motion of 21 February this year has been followed up with a view to rapidly drawing up a cutter vision together with the sector. It is important that in the overcrowded North Sea there should also be room for our fishermen. So we look forward to this vision. Perhaps the Minister could explain a little more about that. Mr President, I shall conclude. As the Netherlands, we have an enormous innovative force. With our progressive agriculture and horticulture sector and our internationally leading regions, we can contribute to solving tomorrow's challenges. As far as the VVD is concerned, we should not stand in the way of this innovation, but rather give it ample scope for action. It is not for nothing that the Netherlands has the best performing economy in Europe. Today it became known that we are past Switzerland and Germany, and even the fourth economy of the world. Let us cherish that and continue to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u87	Thank you. Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u88	The SP introduced an amendment to invest 200 million in natural areas once in the context of the nitrogen problem in order to enable recovery and buffering. This is also in line with the opinion of the Remkes Committee and even, in a sense, with the Cabinet's nitrogen letter. I was wondering how the VVD is looking at this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u89	I have not yet been able to accept the amendment properly. I think it's good that I do that before I say anything about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u90	That's very sensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u91	It was sent out last week, but we'll talk about it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u92	Thank you for the speech of the VVD. It was actually quite green. I'd like to go back to the beginning of the argument. There was a plea for more greenery in the city, including green roofs. My question is: are we going to see an adaptation of the Building Decision in order to make this possible? Because there are still a lot of new neighborhoods and lots of new commercial real estate being built without a green roof.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u93	That's a very interesting observation from Mrs. Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u94	Yes. And the answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u95	The Building Decision is very important. I was at the public space trade fair last week talking to developers. They also said that the Building Decision is important to introduce more green roofs. Let me adjust the expectations a little bit, but it's an interesting thought, which I'm definitely going to think about further.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u96	I think something very nice is going to blossom, so I think we can come up with some good proposals here together. Let me say that not only roofs are being realized that are not covered by solar panels and are not covered by greenery, but that often even the carrying capacity is not in order. Our Building Decision is really hopelessly behind. I look forward to working together to improve this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u97	I hear what you're saying, Mrs. Dik-Faber. Green is what you should do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u98	I was pleased that Mr Weverling's plea was very focused on more green in the city, all the way through the CDA motion last year. But does Mr Weverling agree that the Ministry can also play a stronger role in promoting more biodiversity in the city?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u99	Well, it's important that we have green in the city and green outside of town, and that we also make it more robust. That is, of course, the broad thrust of my speech. Biodiversity can also improve. In particular, your question is whether the Ministry should play a more active role within the city. I think the Ministry of LNV is of course focused on areas other than purely in the city, but indeed, green and nature you also have in the city. This is not just a task of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, for example. So I think it would be a good idea to share this ambition with the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u100	Thank you, Mr. Weverling. I now give the floor to Mrs Bromet on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u101	Mr. Chairman. At the beginning of last summer, on a beautiful Sunday, I visited my thirteen fellow room members of GroenLinks. The sun was shining. My colleagues were impressed by the view from the garden: the Varkenland, a peatland north of Amsterdam, where the gruttos had just left. Natura 2000, right in the middle of the busy Randstad. We took a boat trip through the meadows. The skipper picked up some water mint for the hot water he had brought and we drank mint tea. He told about the wetland and the birds and plants in this nature reserve, about the plant pitrus, a plant that is advancing in the Varkland because of acidification. The nitrogen debate had not yet exploded, so maybe he wouldn't say it was acidification, but nitrogen, because nitrogen causes acidification of the soil. The sailing trip symbolised the various discussions that are currently taking place in the agricultural debate: of course nitrogen, but also the effects of climate change and the role of the peat meadow landscape in combating it. As you know, I wrote an own-initiative paper on this last year. My first question to the Minister is about that right away. A motion was adopted before the summer following the initiative proposal on peat, asking for a national plan for peat meadows. In the budget, the Minister is still talking about regional plans. Did she forget to process the motion? What is she going to do to carry out the motion? The nitrogen discussion did not start until 29 May 2019, the day when the judge decided that the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen cannot be applied and that nature needs to be better protected. Last year, in the budget, I asked for attention to be paid to the farmers of Schiermonnikoog who realised that they would have to reduce their livestock because nature on the Wadden Island suffered too much from their ammonia emissions. Thank you to the Minister for helping farmers after the debate. Don't forget to look, I ask her, at the way Schiermonnikoog did this: focus on quality rather than quantity and bulk production. It is an example for the rest of the Dutch livestock sector, because after Schiermonnikoog the problem of nitrogen has now been reflected in the rest of the country. I hope that there will be Schiermonnikoogse cheese soon and I would like it. This is the third invitation today to the Minister to do something together to eat a sandwich of Schiermonnikoogse cheese. Mr. Chairman. The portfolio of agriculture and nature has not always been the most prominent portfolio, but in recent weeks you can't open a newspaper or it's about the most beautiful portfolio there is: LNV. The cabinet seems to have been robbed by the judge's ruling, but for GroenLinks it was no surprise. We didn't agree to the PAS. Over the past few years, we have been patiently watching how gross savings have been made on nature, while the economy has been given ample employment. Countless proposals for more nature and fewer cattle were referred to as unrealistic by parties such as CDA, VVD but also D66. From my kitchen window I have seen the stables built in recent years after the abolition of milk quotas, which GroenLinks also opposed. The pitrus repressed the reitorchis and the sundew, but every farmer who wanted to build a new stable got a permit. The judge's ruling felt like justice to us. Finally, an interest that cannot lobby itself became one: nature. A special thank you to the citizens who went to court because the majority in the Lower House did not offer protection to nature. We in GroenLinks knew immediately after the court ruling what had to be done: fewer cattle, slower driving and no further expansion of aviation. The Remkes Committee came up with the same message two weeks ago. Not everything is possible, she wrote. When I was listening to Mr Remkes at the press conference, I heard him express lyrics that my predecessors and I from GroenLinks here in the Chamber for years, year out against walls. Not everything can be done, was the summary of all the proposals we have made here in recent years. Proposals mostly blocked by a majority of CDA, VVD, PvdA, D66 and Christian Union. Mr. Chairman. We will have the debate on the nitrogen issue next week, but I would like to say two things about this now. The first one is about money. The second is about buying out farmers. In the letter we received on Friday from the Cabinet, all kinds of amounts were mentioned for existing plans. They have been repeated so often that the imported reader can dream of them: 180 million to clean up pig farming, 100 million to stoppers in peat meadows. If the Minister thinks she can create room for nitrogen emissions with plans that were already on the shelf, I should like to warn her. Accelerate nature recovery, build buffer zones next to nature reserves and buy out farmers costs money. Lots of money. Money that is not reserved by the cabinet four months after the judge's ruling. Provinces have been sent out this week with an empty wallet. That's not gonna work. I therefore have a few questions for the Minister. How much money is creating space in the nitrogen file going to cost? What does the Minister mean by "If necessary, the Cabinet is prepared to set up a budget reserve for the financing of additional short-term measures"? What other priorities will this mean? Then the peasants. No one is looking forward to forcing farmers to move or give up their business. They are farmers who took over their father's business and they take over their father's. GroenLinks also sees how much pain a forced departure can cause, but the statements made by the Minister during the demonstration by the farmers and in her letter from last week worried us. The problem of nitrogen is first and foremost a natural problem. The pressure from emissions has to be reduced and the biggest polluters have to pay for it. And yes, that's the livestock business. We therefore regret that the Minister is sending the provinces out with an empty instrument case. There's no money, and there's no title. Everything must be voluntary, while the Remkes Committee recommends that account be taken of expropriation. A powerful minister cannot remain friends with everyone. I therefore ask the following questions. On the basis of what information does the Minister think that all natural 2000 areas in the Netherlands can be helped to purchase these rights voluntarily? Suppose this voluntary buyout doesn't work in an area, does nature have bad luck, or the construction companies, or the house seekers? Suppose it's necessary to make half the animals disappear in order to save nature and build houses, does the Minister quit? Mr. Chairman. I am saving the rest of our nitrogen concerns for next week, but I hope the Minister is aware that the money from the budget reserve really needs to be included in the Autumn note. It must not be about existing resources, but about new resources. And it shouldn't be filled with a few thousand euros, but with millions. Then the budget of LNV. I would like to make three points, starting with the food banks. In the budget, EUR 1 million will be earmarked for food waste policy next year. In the Netherlands, supermarkets throw away 180,000 tonnes of food every year. At the same time, the food banks help only a small proportion of the people in this country who are dependent on the food banks for their messages, i.e. 140,000 out of 400,000 people. It is a distressing situation that there are people who go to bed with hunger in the evening without food aid. The food banks work with passionate volunteers. I helped hand out the food one morning myself and I was deeply impressed by their commitment. They would also like to distribute the other food that is thrown away by the supermarkets to Dutch people who are starving. Can the Minister promise that when spending the money to combat food waste, they will consult with the food banks in the Netherlands so that they can live up to their ambitions? In France, there is a law that forces supermarkets to donate end-of-life food to charity or to use it to produce animal feed or compost. My colleague Moorlag from the PvdA asked for this last year. As long as the food banks do not yet have enough food to help all those who need food aid, a legal obligation to combat food waste seems useful to me. What does the Minister think of such a law? Can it find out whether such a ban can also be introduced in the Netherlands? My next point is about trees. GroenLinks had been writing a national tree plan for some time, when the minister announced that he would come up with a forest strategy. In the last AO Nature to my surprise also the SP suddenly spoke of a national tree plan. Because working together in politics is crucial to achieving results, the SP and GroenLinks have joined forces. I have here our joint initiative paper "17 million trees, the National Tree Plan." It was offered by e-mail to my fellow chamber members this morning. I also brought a copy for the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u102	I assume there is no objection to this document being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u103	The proposal concerns more trees, but also better quality forest management, nature education and better protection of trees. Everyone loves trees. I think it is a subject that we can best get our hands on in this committee. I hope that the Minister will be happy to read it and that we will discuss it at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u104	Speaking of trees, I've been trying to work here for as long as I'm in the Chamber on behalf of the PVV that the National Tree Planting Day takes place every year with farmers, in order to create shadow spots for animals. I don't know if Mrs Bromet ever drives past a meadow when it's 33°C. Then you see all kinds of animals repressing themselves to find somewhere a shadow spot of a tractor or a flat car or something else. How's Mrs. Bromet in there? Would she please support me in it as a tree expert and as a tree fanatic that there will be trees to protect animals from heat stress and heat?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u105	It is nice that Mr Graus calls Boomfeestdag, because as a child I also planted a tree on that day. That tree has already gotten very thick. I also consulted on writing this note with the organisation of the Boomfeestdag. It also fully supports this note. She plans to set the record trees plants in numbers next spring. I think it's a good suggestion to also see if it's possible to give shade to animals in some places.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u106	Thanks. I hope that the Minister will also... I'd like us all to plant a tree at a farmer's place on such a Tree Planting Day. That would be nice, of course, with the farmers who want it and where it is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u107	I have a few more questions about the plan for 17 million trees. It sounds very nice, but I see in practice that a lot of ground-based organisations convert Natura 2000 sites from forest to other forms of nature. How does Mrs Bromet explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u108	If you read the tree plan, you'll see it's not an anti-tree plan. We're not against the hood of every tree. Sometimes a tree is sick, sometimes nature goals have to be achieved in places where sunlight is needed. Some nature benefits from the accession of sunlight. When it comes to Natura 2000 sites, we know what nature needs to be protected there. We cannot turn the whole of the Netherlands into a forest. But I would also like to say that our tree plan not only focuses on the land of the land managers. 40 years ago, there was someone with vision. Whoever said, I think here in the House of Representatives: trees must come, because in 40 years time there will be a shortage of wood. Those trees have grown big now. That forest scheme was available to farmers. Those trees are all being cut down massively now because the scheme is over. We believe that there should be a new forestry regime for farmers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u109	Thank you for the comprehensive answer, I would like to say to Mrs Bromet. But are these 17 million trees an end in themselves or are they a means of promoting climate policy, nature policy and biodiversity in cohesion? That seems to me to be the starting point, not the number of trees specifically.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u110	Mr von Martels is quite right about that. We've been doing extensive calculations of how many trees you can plant per hectare. Then it's very different whether you're talking about big trees or small trees. The number of 17 million refers to the number of Dutch. We say at least 17 million and think that much more is possible. But we do mention another number, that of 100,000 hectares.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u111	Please continue, Mrs Bromet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u112	Finally. There is often a contradiction between the city and the countryside, where GroenLinks is classified with the greatest ease in the camp "city." I told you at the beginning of my speech today that I live among the farmers myself. But this summer I travelled with my colleague Paul Smeulders to the north of the country. We went to Holwerd. We talked to people there who are models for what some call the participatory society. Men with jobs, who sacrifice all their free time for a project to dampen the effects of population shrinkage, sustain agriculture and help nature further. It's a very nice project called Holwerd aan Zee. They've gone a long way with money from the Postcode lottery, money from the county and money from the regional deal, but there's still money shortage. The question to the Minister is: how can she help the initiators to take the last bumps? Mr. Chairman. These are busy times for agricultural spokesmen, and also for the minister. We know the Minister as a fair, hard-working and passionate minister. We appreciate that very much. I'm also looking at her plans with great admiration. But it's time for action now. There are clear choices to be made. People will also be disappointed and angry. We will push the Minister over and over again to implement her plans bravely, because the time of words is over. It's time for action now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u113	I had to think about it, because I was a little confused by Mrs Bromet's contribution. That has to do with the fact that in the election programme I do not really see anything about warming up. In fact, I see only a cold clean-up of livestock farming. In the supplementary budget, whose ink is not yet dry, I do not see any additional investment in nature. So at what point did you make that turn? At what point did you think: we have to clean up hot anyway, that sounds better... and invest more in nature? When was that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u114	That's based on a big misunderstanding. I also think that Mr De Groot did not take a good look at our electoral programme and how it was passed on. There are, of course, sums in this respect for the clean-up. We have always advocated a warm clean-up. And the counter-budget that we tabled together with PvdA and SP focused on socio-economic aspects and on the relationship between large business and citizens, and not on all aspects of what we are putting forward here in politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u115	Then I understand my confusion, because I didn't really find anything in it of the story Mrs Bromet is keeping here. But now it's cleared up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u116	I would say read our election programme again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u117	Thank you, Mrs Bromet. I now give the floor to Mr Geurts on behalf of the CDA. After Mr Geurts and Mr von Martels we are going to suspend, because I see that Mr Graus has already eaten a bag of licorice! We don't want to. He even has two.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u118	One bag of licorice?! I'm thinking something more. Mr. Chairman. For centuries, the Netherlands has been a highly productive agricultural country in the world: from famines and malnutrition in the nineteenth century, to abundance in the second half of the twentieth century. With our own innovative farmers, the Dutch agro-complex, from arable land to seed growers, has reached a huge increase in production per hectare. Agriculture, horticulture and fisheries are the manufacturing industries of home soil, belong to the Netherlands and its sectors of vital economic importance. Mr. Chairman. For our food production, we used to need a lot more farmers than we do today. The downside of that is that the distance to how our food is produced has grown. Everyone used to have a farmer in the family, now they don't. The knowledge about the creation and value of our food and its production is disappearing from our collective memory. There are already groups that think that farmers are superfluous. After all, everything we need is in the supermarket. And with that thinking, there's a lot going wrong. Something's wrong when people on the plane ask for a cloud of soy milk because of their climate impression. It's gonna go wrong if we sell all kinds of watery import drinks in our own room restaurant. Mr. Chairman. Healthy food is essential for our health. Can the Minister indicate what research is being carried out by the government on the value of our food for our health?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u119	Let me ask you a quick question. Did I hear the CDA say in a cozy way, namely by putting it in a way that we need fewer farmers today, that the CDA is responsible for the fact that over the past ten or twelve years we have lost more than half of the pig farmers, while the number of animals has increased?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u120	That's a very interesting turn of events! I expected Mrs Ouwehand to say again that stopping all those farmers is the CDA's fault. So I need to think about exactly what's behind this. But I think that is essentially what this is about, so I will send it back to the Animal Party: with your policy tomorrow we will have very few farmers in the Netherlands, at least less than with the policy that is currently taking place.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u121	That is remarkable, because the Agricultural Economic Institute, nowadays Wageningen Economic Research, has made a different calculation. With the citizens' initiative Stop wrong meat, it has calculated exactly how we can keep up the number of farmers in the Netherlands, but get the number of animals down. If you make the choices of the CDA, we lose farmers and increase the number of animals; if you make the choices of the Party for Animals, we keep farmers and there are fewer animals in the Netherlands. Does the CDA question the calculation of Wageningen Economic Research here?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u122	This is very interesting, because no matter how you turn it or turn it, I always fall into the trap that the Party sets for the Animals for me. I'm just not falling for that. I'm just not going in that frame. I have argued here that this is a compliment to our agro-sector and, above all, a wink to the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture that the agro-complex has developed over the years: you can simply produce more per hectare with fewer hands. Working capacity is declining; there are too few people. In horticulture, I am not a spokesperson for this; that is Mr von Martels, you can also see that the increase in production has resulted in fewer people being needed. That's just a fact we're dealing with. That's not because of CDA policy, it's not because of PvdD policy, it's just because of reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u123	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u124	Mr. Chairman. Last week's agro-action didn't miss anyone, I guess. Last Monday evening I had a goosebump, when I saw the images of the tractors that came from Texel to the mainland and of the farmers who left Groningen and were waved out by their mayors. Along the way, farmers coming from various parts of the world were welcomed by our citizens. Anyone who was there last Tuesday will have felt that farmers are happy to enter into conversation with society and would like to explain how things are going on in the farmyard. When can we expect the Minister's response to the issues of the Agrication? Mr. Chairman. Farmers belong to the Netherlands. Growing crops and keeping animals belongs to the Netherlands, now and in the future. Whoever's talking about halving wants thousands of families to give up their life's work. Many jobs around them, in rural areas, would also disappear. Anyone talking about halving is destroying innovation and moving production to other countries, leading to higher emissions of greenhouse gases and ammonia and less animal welfare. Whoever's talking about halving makes the problems bigger instead of smaller. With such statements, in such a tone, you show no understanding and respect for all those hardworking people. Mr. Chairman. Whoever disrespected it was the extremists who broke into a stable in Boxtel in May and occupied it. Many farmers and myself felt impotence and anger at the occupation in Boxtel. Over the past few months, I've had time to think about this. As a result, it has become even clearer to me that these organisations, which commit crimes, are not being dealt with hard enough and are thereby deterred. The CDA wants those who participate in this type of occupation, and therefore in the organisation of crime, to be prosecuted for participating in a criminal organisation. Organised crime is not only committed in the Netherlands, but also in Australia, Canada, the United Kingdom and Ireland, for example. By prosecuting the participants for participating in a criminal organisation, they can be more severely punished; from community service to heavy prison sentences. In addition, I would like to see a legislative proposal in which sedition and the entry or destruction of agricultural buildings are punished more severely, just as has been proposed in Australia. Mr. Chairman. I'd like to work on connection between town and country. This can also contribute to better income models for farmers. The food separator, described in my own initiative paper entitled "A Fair Sandwich," is in progress. The Minister is working on initiatives to strengthen the connection between urban and rural areas. Is there anything she can say about that? What opportunities are there for farmers to be better able to sell their products locally? Is it possible to make agreements with supermarkets about offering local products? Because who was the great absentee in the chain at the protest last week? Those were the supermarkets. They don't feel bound to anything and they just as easily get products from the other side of the world. The supermarkets are not only in the world and must also be aware of their surroundings. It is also necessary to ensure better compliance with our standards in trade policy. With Phil Hogan as European Commissioner, I have hope of that. Will the Minister, together with the Minister for Trade, make this a very high priority?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u125	Mr President, if I may, I would like to comment on the following. Mr Geurts announces a bill. We'll see. I think that will end up with our colleagues in the Justice and Security Committee. He says, "I want them prosecuted as a criminal organization." I'm looking for a little practicality. In my view, the Public Prosecutor's Office ultimately decides how and at what level groups of people are being prosecuted. What does Mr Geurts propose in concrete terms?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u126	I have formulated it; this is a wish of mine. I'm not a criminal attorney myself. So I am a little cautious about giving a concrete answer now. I should further develop this in an own-initiative proposal. What matters to me is that we see that we are simply working together and that companies are being terrorized. On the day after that burglary and occupation took place in Boxtel, I got worried peasants, mothers, on the line with the question: Jaco, how do we deal with this; we have children walking on our yard and they are about to be overrun by these people? That has only strengthened me in the desire to ensure that I get such a bet wrapped in a bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u127	But that bill is still being filed. Then it will certainly be discussed extensively. Otherwise, we're going to talk about something that hasn't been seen by everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u128	Mr Geurts says something about the activists. When I saw those peasants driving, I also had a feeling of "Oh, for God's sake, they've got that right." I've been a union manager for years. I hate that you're organizing such an action! And quite rightly when it is said unsedated that 50% of businesses should disappear. But a few days before, there was a demonstration of tens of thousands of young people who are concerned about whether there is enough natural capital for them in the future. My question to Mr Geurts is: does he also understand those activists, those peaceful activists, who say that the system is running against the limit of growth?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u129	I may not have been clear, but I am really talking about a group that is breaking into a pigsty, which also occupies that pigsty, which makes it impossible for the entrepreneur to provide care to those animals, to feed those animals. I think that is quite different from a protest for the climate. That's a whole different chapter. We in the Netherlands simply have the room to protest, within the limits set by the Constitution and by law and regulation. But to put it another way, I'm just going to call it Boxtel... and compare the situation with the other action... Then I think, "We'll be a long way from the path."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u130	I didn't. I can see that difference, too. I also disapprove of that action in Boxtel. But I am concerned with the signal that these young people have sent out that the system is running against borders, here in the Netherlands too, not only in terms of the climate but also in terms of agriculture. How does Mr Geurts look at that signal?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u131	I probably didn't understand the question. It's fine. You can have a climate march. That's what they're worried about. But I think this cabinet has done a number of things. I call it the Climate Agreement, et cetera. That for some people that doesn't go far enough, that's possible. But I understood that question in relation to that action in Boxtel. That's how I answered it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u132	Yeah, but that's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u133	And that's how I answered that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u134	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u135	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The coalition agreement has many good initiatives, including the fund for young farmers, the approach to unfair commercial practices and legislation to strengthen the position of farmers in the chain. It is time for this legislation to enter into force. They can contribute to a better income model for our farmers and gardeners. When does the Minister expect to do this? Then the barn fires. What about the execution of my motion on rapid detection systems? The House asked for proposals to be made in the 2020 budget and to indicate how we are going to support farmers in this. I'd like a response from the Minister. The alleged foot-and-mouth disease outbreak in Kootwijkerbroek caused me to go into politics. I saw a government standing right in front of the farmer. Meanwhile, the alleged outbreak has been under trial for some 18 years. Now there's a comparison between alleged FMD and phosphate rights. I realize that very well, but I see another government that has faced the farmer with phosphate rights. When will our farmers become clear? Surely it can't be that a government drives them to despair? I have been promised by the former Secretary of State, and I hold the Minister to that. How will the Minister ensure that craftsmanship is also rewarded by, for example, a Kringloopwijzer? Will the possibility of farmer/farmer contracts be given a place in the rethinking of manure policy? Then there is the problem of nitrogen. It will be the subject of an extensive debate next week, I estimate. But the recent letter of Parliament has given rise to a great deal of uncertainty. I ask the Minister to come immediately with a crisis line and an information point where entrepreneurs can ask questions. The CDA is not running away from its responsibility, but it has become clear to me in recent days that the why and how nitrogen policy will have to be explained much better by the Cabinet to our society. Many legitimate questions can be asked about the RIVM model. The VVD Group has just asked a large number of questions. I agree with that. The policy must also be better substantiated. The CDA asks the Minister what steps it has taken and is going to take to improve nitrogen deposition measurements in the short term and how the model will be opened up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u136	I'd still like to suggest...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u137	I have one more paragraph.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u138	Then I'd do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u139	You're in charge. During the protest, it was also wonderful to see how much solidarity there is in the sector, solidarity that is desperately needed. Hold this and convert this energy into more cooperation and positive energy to society. Finally, I would like to say that our farmers, growers and fishermen deserve to be proud of them. They rightly have a place in the Netherlands to provide us with safe and healthy food. The CDA has confidence in people, trust in society and thus trust in the future. Moreover, as a CDA, we do our work in the conviction that God's creation is given to us to manage well and to leave it better for our children and grandchildren. I wish us, as Chamber, the government and the officials, above all, God's blessing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u140	The CDA has confidence, but not in the RIVM, I understand from the words of Mr Geurts. What is the real reason for questioning the models and measurements of RIVM and, by the way, of Wageningen Research involved? What is the real reason?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u141	I'm surprised at this question. If Mr Futselaar had followed my work in this Chamber, he could see that in 2015 I already asked questions about ammonia and the ammonia review. In 2017 we had a briefing from the RIVM. We had a hearing on the report on ammonia. There have been talks with interested parties on behalf of the Cabinet by the Rathenau Institute and a letter about the RIVM has been received at the beginning of this year. What does Mr Geurts not trust? Mr Geurts simply wants transparency. He wants to know clearly what that model looks like, what goes in and what comes out. I just saw in a NOS message that I am also supported in this by Mr Erisman, director of the Louis Bolk Institute. He says it's good that it's made transparent. Let me quote that article: 'even so, if you do not explicitly make things public'. So I am also supported by people outside the CDA who say that we should just have a transparent model. And why do we need such a transparent model? Because it depends on it incredibly much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u142	I think I read an interview with Mr Erisman in which he said: you may have some doubts about RIVM, but the overall picture of nitrogen is undoubtedly correct. Anyway, we can quote people against each other until we drop. The RIVM gives data to organizations that want it. The model has been published in scientific publications. My sincere question is: does not the ongoing debate on the figures, such as this one, delay the implementation of necessary measures to tackle the nitrogen crisis?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u143	I said some crazy internal with the CDA group the following. My colleague Pieter Omtzigt has asked questions about the model that the electric cars defined. I can simply remove a few words and add the words RIVM, nitrogen and so on. I'll be able to put in some of the same questions. The point is that there is no doubt whatsoever about the model, because the consequences of that model are so great, not only for farmers, but much wider in this society. I hope for the support of the SP Group and I really expect it to give that clarity. The point is that there is really going to be a good scientific validation of the model. 'Cause it's a black box now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u144	I just wanted to come back to the goosebumps Mr Geurts had when the farmers were on their way to The Hague. I've seen him sit on stage. I was wondering: is there ever a time when Mr Geurts thinks, "Oh, I am from the CDA, I have been involved in the agricultural policy since the Second World War. Maybe the criticism of the farmers is also a bit true of what we have done."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u145	I've had that question before. Yes, the CDA has been in the government for many years and has done its job there. But I'm gonna put it into practice. I also received this question about the Programmed Approach Nitrogen: you knew that this would not happen then, did you not? No, we didn't know that then. The Programmed Approach Nitrogen has been submitted to the Council of State, dealt with here by the Chamber and then put into effect. You can't blame the CDA alone for the fact that the judge is going through that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u146	The crazy thing is that the Council of State was pretty critical of the Programmatic Approach to Nitrogen. That has also led GroenLinks and the Party for Animals not to agree. Better late than never, but I would like to say to the CDA: if we go to future-proof livestock farming here in the Netherlands, I would very much like to work with the CDA to see how we can ensure that the farmers who remain can operate within the environmental space that is there, leave nature in good condition and also have a good income, without suffering from heavy debt. If the CDA is open to that, I would very much like to conclude a monstrous covenant on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u147	It's always a little dangerous getting into a monster union, so I'm a little more reluctant. Yes, I'd like to start that conversation with the GroenLinks Group. I am certainly prepared to do so, but I do not yet guarantee the outcome of that discussion, especially since Mrs Bromet's last sentence is very important: we must have a good earning model for our farmers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u148	I have two questions for Mr Geurts. The first concerns his argument against the constant increase in scale. At least that's how I understood it. Is it true, Mr. Geurts, that you don't really want that scaling? Isn't it the CDA rules that encourage scaling? The second question is: what is the CDA doing in Brussels? What the CDA is doing there is making deals with all kinds of countries that compete with our farmers and destroy our market position. I call cheap puffy chickens from Ukraine and the Mercosur countries, you know it all. You come here with a completely different story. Is it not the CDA that increases VAT, especially on our farmers' products? Isn't it a little easy to let the CDA get away with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u149	Wasn't it the PVV who ran away from her responsibility in 2010 and now speaks "beautiful" words from the opposition? Nice between quotes from my perspective. I hope that the PVV Group will continue to support foreign trade. You're referring to Mercosur. There are a lot of questions to be asked. They will also be dealt with when that deal is discussed here in the Chamber. I am not a spokesperson on that point; that is a colleague. My personal opinion is: there should be reciprocity in foreign trade. The second is this. When it comes to foreign trade, everything that comes to Europe must meet European requirements. But putting Mercosur on the ground right now is far too much for me, because for our dairy farmers and cheese producers, for example, such a deal is a very good deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u150	I asked two questions. The first was whether the CDA is actually moving away from that scale increase, that constant scale increase that the CDA is actually cooperating with, or Mr Geurts does not want it. Moreover, I have tabled another motion to check whether new rules are conducive to economies of scale. The CDA voted against, so I don't understand Mr Geurts' story at all. Secondly, these trade deals. I think that Mr Geurts feels that he is partly responsible for this, at least that is what it looks like when I hear him making a little bit of careless movements. But he cannot ignore the fact that in Brussels the CDA is in favour of the deals with Ukraine, which are competing against our farmers under very different conditions. Thanks to you, you have been the one who increased the VAT on our farm products. CDA can't walk away from that, can it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u151	I am in an exciting wait for a counter-budget from the PVV Group and we are going to talk about VAT. Yes, the CDA is represented in Brussels. That's not all the parties here. I'm sure there's a deal there too. When it comes to scaling up, if we can come up with a system where farmers can have a very good income with 100 pigs, why would you want to keep 1,000? It's just that the system is different. It's like the PVV thinks the Netherlands is on an island. If you look at that globe.... to Mr Futselaar I say: I still assume that it is round.................................................................................................................................................................................. So, yes, I don't know why the PVV is pulling out within its own limits and saying: we have nothing to do with the rest of the world anymore. I also heard later that according to the PVV we had nothing to do with the judiciary anymore. It'll be anarchy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u152	You may respond to that, Mr. Madlener, and I shall go to Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u153	I wonder if Mr Geurts still feels at home with the CDA, because he comes here with a completely different story than what the CDA's actions tell. It's just the CDA rules... Rabobank writes in its report on the pig sector: this warm clean-up will reduce pigs by 5%, but will halve the number of entrepreneurs in the pig sector! You're not cleaning the pigs, you're cleaning the entrepreneurs. It's the CDA that makes all these deals and undermines our farmers. It is the CDA that wants deals with Ukraine, with false competition from abroad. Then Mr. Geurts can't come up with a completely different story all of a sudden? You're completely unbelievable, or maybe you should leave the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u154	I hear Mr Graus shouting outside the microphone: come to us. It's always funny when a PVV guy invites a CDA guy to defect. So I am absolutely not going to do that, let me be clear about that. We can make a whole speech about what the CDA is or is not responsible for. At least I have seen the PVV take little responsibility in this society.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u155	Mr Geurts does not dare to do it on stage, not on television, but he simply tries to do it in the plenary: Mercosur. So far the CDA has not wanted to distance itself from that treaty and farmers have given a list of demands in the farm protest. They want clarity within four weeks, and one of the things they are asking is: point out that Mercosur agreement to the wastebasket! The Animal Party has put questions to Minister Kaag and has confirmed that there will be no question of the same demands we are making here in Europe and that they cannot be enforced by conversations either. So the question is clear: is the CDA now prepared to say: Mercosur, we simply shouldn't?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u156	Just for purity. The Mercosur document is not yet in the Chamber for discussion. That's one. Two: I have just indicated that I believe that there should be reciprocity in foreign trade. I have also made it very clear that I believe that the European rules should apply to the products coming to Europe. There is reciprocity in trade relations and there are good elements in that, but the Animal Party does not want any foreign trade at all. He just wants everything that is produced in the Netherlands to be eaten only here in the Netherlands and not to be dealt with abroad. Then I say to Mrs. Ouwehand... Congratulations, by the way, on your group presidency, I say to Mrs Ouwehand. I hadn't done that yet, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u157	I find that disappointing again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u158	I can do that this way. I look forward to working together...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u159	And a bunch of flowers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u160	...with the new chairman of the political group. I say to her that there must be reciprocity in trade relations and that the CDA is in favour of foreign trade. You don't meet a farmer who, if he thinks carefully, is against foreign trade.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u161	For this point it doesn't matter how the Party for Animals looks at trade in general. The point is that farmers have organized a protest. Mr Geurts has spoken praisefully about this. Now those farmers are asking for a few things. One is that they want clarity as soon as possible, within four weeks, and that they do not like Mercosur. They're asking the House of Commons to please say they're not going to support that. The Party for Animals has done its homework and has already read those texts. They're just available. We have asked the Minister for Foreign Trade whether they are subject to the same requirements as in Europe. The Minister says no. Can we enforce it in the long term? No, it's not. All the information is known, so the question is: is the CDA prepared to accept this demand from the farmers?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u162	It's actually the same question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u163	Mrs Ouwehand just gets the same answer. I can repeat it. I'm pretty good at saying exactly the same thing I've done in the past. That is also confirmed by the SP Group. It makes me emotional.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u164	I see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u165	I can sum it up. The answer's just no. The CDA does not want to take the decision that we are throwing Mercosur in the trash in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u166	I really think this is a false contradiction. It's not right either. I just outlined how it's gonna work out. I gave my opinion on these matters. There's no deal yet. It's still to be discussed in the Chamber. I have indicated that this is being discussed in the context of external trade. I'm not going to anticipate that. I do not think that is fair to my group. I do not think that is appropriate to my colleague who is speaking about this either. I think I've been very clear about it. That's what I said in the media. Mrs Ouwehand knows that very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u167	That's clear, too. It makes me emotional, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u168	Next time, Mrs Ouwehand and I will reappear in your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u169	A message has just appeared that I would like a reaction from a coalition party. Winanda de la Rambelje from Delft captures wild. As with all the willopvang in the Netherlands, she is on the verge of bankruptcy. I know you like game, too, just like I do. Only you love it more on the board and I love the animals more. Perhaps you can help me. The law does not lay down who is financially responsible for the duty of care. That's not taken care of. Will Mr. Geurts help me? He's a believer. He believes in the story of creation, and then he also knows that the animals were there before humans. He may want to help me ask the Minister to find a solution to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u170	I call this a Grausje. Mr Graus asks me a question, but he does not expect an answer from me at all. He asks: Mr. Geurts, would you pass this question on to the Minister? I did that on this one, Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u171	Thank you, Mr. Geurts. I shall now turn to Mr von Martels. After Mr. Von Martels, we're going to suspend for a while. Well, at least you know that. Mr Von Martels spoke on behalf of the CDA. He's not getting a hug from Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u172	No, that's disappointing. Mr. Chairman. Thank you. It's my first agricultural budget. It's nice to be the last person to speak, even if it's just for the break. It's good to hear it, though. Mr. Chairman. In my first agricultural budget, I would first like to mention the impressive economic figures of the agricultural sector. Mrs Lodders also mentioned this. The added value of the total agro-complex is €52 billion. That's about 7.4% of the total economy. Moreover, there are 626,000 full-time jobs, which account for 8.7% of national employment. So we'll talk about something. I'd like to point that out. Dutch agriculture is a beautiful manufacturing industry of home soil. Especially in the region, agriculture is important for employment and therefore also for viability. Moreover, agriculture takes care of the beautiful Dutch landscape. In addition, horticulture with 28 billion in added value is the frontrunner. So much innovation, so well-organised management and increasingly resource-efficient and sustainable management are examples for other sectors and the rest of the world. The Dutch horticultural sector exports to 150 countries food, flowers, plants, seeds and much more. The horticulture sector also makes a very important contribution to the CO2 reduction. In addition, there is a point of attention, namely CCU: Carbon Capture Utilisation. The horticulture wants to use CO2 from the industry. For horticulture, the stable supply of CO2 from industry is very important in order not to have to produce CO2 yourself if they make their heat use more sustainable. Is the Minister in good contact with the Minister for Economic Affairs? Because it is important to make good use of the opportunities. In the field of plant protection products, the Minister, together with the sector, is ambitious. However, I am also concerned. On the one hand, I hear that environmental pressure is increasing because resources must no longer be used. I am referring to neonicotinoids, which we already know have increased environmental pressure in the last year. That is, of course, regrettable. That's right, that's how I'm asking the Minister. Does she have the image I just outlined? Do we have an adequate picture of this growing problem? Shouldn't there be alternatives on the market before intervention in the existing budget package? On the other hand, in addition to setting targets for the sustainability of plant protection products, much more is needed. As the PBL also states, it is necessary to make structural use of knowledge and transfer. For that, butter is needed with the Minister's fish. Are there resources available for this? This time I am talking about financial resources, not plant protection products. Is the Minister prepared to see if additional resources can be used for this purpose? Mr. Chairman. The CDA wants us to plant more trees in the Netherlands for a healthy environment and climate. This must not only be about forests, as the Minister wishes, but about all the greenery in every possible place. This also benefits biodiversity, where all the bugs, including the beetles on the side of the road, are important. I would therefore recommend to the Minister that her intention for a forest strategy be extended to a tree strategy. After all, all trees count. My question to the Minister is: are you prepared to do so? Mr. Chairman. It is still very unclear for me and also for the national parks how the additional resources for the national parks are being spent. EUR 6 million is available for a quality jump and process support. However, the question is how national parks can claim this. How should applications be made and how are they assessed? Could the only UNESCO biosphere area designated in the Netherlands, the Maashegge, with a hedge landscape of 275 kilometres on about 2,000 hectares, also be supported? Or does the Minister see other possibilities for this? The Maashegge is a beautiful area where we can see how culture, landscape, economy and nature have been going together for centuries. Mr. Chairman. For the Netherlands, the European agricultural and fisheries policy is important. New Commissioners have been proposed: the Lithuanian Sinkevičius I do not know if I am speaking out correctly for fisheries and the Pool Wojciechowski for agriculture. We have a young enthusiastic Lithuanian on fisheries policy. This gives the opportunity to put Dutch innovative fisheries policy on the map. Are there any plans of the Minister to get acquainted with these two gentlemen? After all, good relations in Europe are desperately needed on many dossiers and form a basis for future agricultural policy. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u173	Thank you, Mr. Von Martels. I should now like to make the proposal to suspend until 2.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-09-tweedekamer-4.u174	After that, we will first swear a new colleague of the Party for Animals and we will also have the arrangement of work. Then we proceed with the first term on the side of the Chamber.
