ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-3.u1	Let us now turn to Mr Nijboer's question to the Minister for Finance, whom I would also like to welcome. The question is about the H.J. Shoe-reading.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There are politicians who think vision is an elephant that hinders sight. I'm not part of that current. I belong to the current of Joop den Uyl, born 100 years ago, who finds: where vision is lacking, the people are dwindling. Having said that, when I heard Minister Hoekstra's speech yesterday, I was very cold. We need to talk about that vision, including in Parliament. You can also say a lot about the points of integration, and I have some views on this, but I would like to ask the Minister on the socio-economic issues. Because under a layer of compassion, I sensed a cold-conservative agenda. Where the Minister says 'the middle class'.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We need billions for that and they don't go to the middle class. Nobility required, Minister. Are you taking that back? Is this income tax not going to go through at all and is it going to benefit the middle class? Mr. Chairman. The second point. The minister says people are a washing machine away from financial problems. A very good analysis. At the same time, he says that care and social security must be dealt with. At the same time, he withdraws the robe of financial security from people. How does that relate to each other? You can't do that together, can you? Does the Minister not realize that people are deeply concerned about their pensions, about the security of their income, whether they can still pay for the care? What does the Minister want to cut back on? Mr. Chairman. Third. I have more questions, but I also have a speaking time. Thirdly, did the Minister speak on behalf of the entire cabinet and, in particular, on behalf of the Minister for Social Affairs and Minister De Jonge of Health, when he spoke about the necessary interventions he thought would be necessary? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-3.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mr President, thank you. Thanks for the questions, too. It was a great honour to have the Schoo lecture yesterday and thank you for the opportunity to explain it even further. I appreciate that from Mr Nijboer. First, on the income tax. Of course, I practice every time, every time I'm questioned by the press on matters relating to Prince's Day, to say exactly nothing. Because if I were to say something, I would immediately be asked by Mr Nijboer to come and explain to Parliament...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-3.u5	Or by Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-3.u6	...or by Mr Van Raak asking me how. So I find myself in the complicated figure that Mr Nijboer is asking me what Mr Nijboer does not want me to say. I think as far as the profit tax is concerned...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-3.u7	You have permission.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-3.u8	... and the plans related to Prince's Day, even after this encouragement, must respect the constitutional tradition. I would very much like to talk to Mr Nijboer about this from Prinsjesdag. Mr. Chairman. Then there is social security and, in particular, public health. What I've been trying to do there is tell an honest story. There were also people who used to talk about the honest story. So I wanted to describe, to indicate, that when you talk about burden relief, about investment in society and about sustainable public finances, you have to tell a fair story. Then there's no free lunch in that story, as you say in English. The reality is that more than 50% of our expenditure goes to public health and social security and, in particular, the cost of public health is very high. To put it another way: during this cabinet period, these costs increase by about 15 billion, so the growth of costs alone is greater than, for example, the entire Defence budget. You can then stick your head in the sand for that problem, but it doesn't make much sense to pretend that that problem doesn't exist. And what I highlighted very clearly yesterday is that if you do not want the cost of public health in particular to be at the expense of other subjects that I think are important to us, such as good schools, such as enough police officers, such as climate, or to choose the way of.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. So it's not about cutting and not about shrinking. It is about the road, which the previous cabinet has already embarked on, to see how on the one hand you provide affordable care for all Dutch people who were of very high quality, is and remains and on the other hand also keeps money for all the other things that we consider important. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the third question from the triptych that Mr Nijboer is presenting to me here: who are you standing for? For the record: at such a lecture on a general theme, you obviously have more space than if you are standing in the Chamber for example. I was there yesterday in the first place as a politician and as a CDA. At the same time, the many connoisseurs of state law in this Chamber will say: you cannot, by definition, get rid of that ministership for just one day. I believe that this is going well in practice in the Netherlands and it went well yesterday. I would just like to refer to my predecessors as a giver of that Schoo-lecture: Timmermans, Schippers and Rutte. They also talked there, and I think they have managed to monitor that balance well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-3.u9	Thank you. Then Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-3.u10	The last answer I didn't find so terribly clear. Was it also on behalf of Minister Koolmees and Minister De Jonge or was it the personal title? But more importantly, the minister says you have to be honest in politics. I agree with him. So if you choose one, you can't do the other. So if you choose defense and charge relief as a priority, you can't spend a lot of money on other things. Then I ask the Minister to also clarify to the people he wants to cut back on. Does that mean that your own risk or your own contributions to care go up? Does that mean, like Dijkhoff, that the welfare is going down? Does that mean I wouldn't advise the Minister, because CDA leaders have preceded him in the past and that the AOW will be reduced? What does that mean, then, what did the Finance Minister say yesterday? He can't stay away from making clear to people he's pleading for, because it can't be both. And "less" doesn't fall for that, because we all know that we're all getting older, that we're getting older, that care costs are going up, and that means that you can't keep the same level with the same money. The Minister of Finance knows that better than anyone. So if he wants to do something, he should also mention measures and give clarity here to the people in plain language.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-3.u11	It is a complicated figure, because 'less more' is exactly what the health ministers are already doing and, I see, with the approval of a very large majority of the House. This problem is not mentioned for the first time by me or by these ministers. They do this because also the previous cabinet, of VVD and Party of Labour, has seen that you have to work on this. After all, you want this public health to remain of high quality and to ensure its accessibility to everyone in the Netherlands. In addition, you also want to spend money on schools, on security, on defence, on climate and on all the things that we think are important to each other. The cost of public health is rising so much faster than the gross domestic product that you can see that the cost of public health simply has the ability to reduce other important things. When you see that, you have to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-3.u12	That is not the answer to the question. I asked a clear question. What does the Minister want to make savings on within the health and social security sector? What action should be taken to do these other things? The Minister knows as well as I do that the sustainability deficit itself is not a problem, so we can do it; it is a political choice. That is also apparent from visions. It's not the PvdA's choice. But if the Minister says so and makes all these promises, he must also make clear where he wants to do so here in the Chamber. And, more importantly, he has to make that clear to the people. That's what the Minister's running away from.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-3.u13	Mr Nijboer does the following. I understand that, but it is a good thing to put it into words. Yesterday, I kept a story about the period until 2030. I have indicated that we want to invest more in a lot of things, that we also want to provide relief and that we also want to choose to pass the country on wisely to the next generation, something that has consequences for an acceptable public debt. If you want all that, you can look away from this problem, but then you have to think about how to mitigate those costs. I'll say it again. Mr Nijboer seems to think that the following is a complicated formula, but I believe that it is indeed widely accepted politically and the intention is also widely accepted. So you have to look at how it's smarter and how it's different. In the words of Minister De Jonge: you need to look at how the organizational capacity of care should be shaped. After all, if you don't, you won't be able to do a lot of those other things. So finding that balance is an assignment, I think for everyone who is here and also for myself. But it is a quest that will take much longer, and that can at most be prosecuted in this cabinet period.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-3.u14	Mr President, I have not been given an answer to the very simple question of where social security is to be dealt with and where, according to the Minister, care should be taken until 2030. Where do we have to intervene hard because otherwise things will go wrong? Those are his own words.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-3.u15	I pointed out a direction yesterday. Public health costs have increased by 15 billion in four years. I have tried to say that again to Mr Nijboer. When you see that and you pull that line, you don't have to stick your head in the sand. Then you need to think about how to proceed with that. So that's not about a list of cuts. I understand that Mr Nijboer thinks: it is attractive to ask for it politically. But that's not what I argued and it's not what I meant.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-3.u16	That was still not an answer to my question, Mr President; still not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-3.u17	Thank you. I am going to Mr Alkaya, on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-3.u18	Here is a Minister of Finance who, since his arrival, has taken one measure after another which has taken the middle class correctly. He raised the VAT, the energy tax. And now he is apparently surprised that many Dutch families are only one broken washing machine away from financial problems. That is what these families owe to, among other things, this minister. I have the next question for him. He notes in an extensive lecture that capitalism is in need of a correction. Good. Will we then start together by reversing one of those antisocial measures that this minister has taken? What measure does the Minister regret?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-3.u19	This must be put back into context, otherwise there will be misunderstandings, also because I have been able to take Mr Alkaya's views on capitalism more often. What I have said is that I believe that there is no superior, no good alternative to the free market economy and that there should be room for such things as entrepreneurship, inventiveness and the free market. But at the same time, when you look at the Netherlands and at the balance between rights and duties and between what employees bring in and what they get back with certainties, you see that balance is vulnerable. Furthermore, I said that the middle class, a lot of very normal families in the Netherlands, is vulnerable as a result. That this balance has to be restored, that is what I wanted to argue. That is why, for example, in that speech, I also called on employers to see what they can do themselves in terms of more security in contracts and more participation of people. How to strengthen the backbone of Dutch society by providing more certainty is what it is all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-3.u20	Then...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-3.u21	Mr Alkaya is very happy, I see, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-3.u22	You mustn't provoke. Mr Stoffer on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-3.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Unlike Mr Nijboer, I thought there were quite a few interesting reflections in that reading last night. This does not apply to every aspect; we can discuss it later. What I found very interesting, among other things, is the Minister's observations on those normal families: often hardworking, one-and-a-half-earner, I missed the one-earner between them, children and so on. What I'm really curious about is what the perspective is for, let's say, 2030 for those families, those normal, hard-working families of one-and-a-half earners, one-earners, children. What can they expect from you in 2030?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-3.u24	Mr Stoffer is now making things complicated, because I needed an hour yesterday to put that right. Given the limitations I expect you to put to me in this Question Time, Mr President, I would like to refer Mr Stoffer on the one hand to the speech, but on the other hand I would like to say once again that, as far as I am concerned, the key word is more'reciprocity'. We need to look for a new social balance, ensuring that the combination of rights and duties for the middle class comes back into balance, because that linguistically beautiful but at the same time so frightening American concept of fear or falling of the middle class is staring us in the face. That's the fear of turning a quarter into a dime again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-3.u25	Second question, Mr. Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-3.u26	You can't do that anymore, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-3.u27	No, you can't do that. I see Mr Van der Staaij nodding. No, you can't do that anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-3.u28	We're still one fraction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-3.u29	Thank you very much. Then I'm going to see Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-3.u30	I can see that Mr Van der Staaij is running a little purple,
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-3.u31	Mr Azarkan, on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-3.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We saw some sort of exam yesterday from this minister for the party leadership of the CDA. There was a lot of fear in it: fear that the middle class is indeed falling back to a dime, fear of that migrant, including the well-known man who doesn't hand over women. Knowing this minister, these reflections are of course interesting. What is the Minister going to do to take away those fears? What is this minister going to do for the middle class, for the migrant, but also for those Dutch standards and values?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-3.u33	Here too, it is really important to emphasise something. What I have tried to do, perhaps, is to keep an optimistic and hopeful story even with the DENK Group when reading the speech. It is about the future of the Netherlands and how we shape it in a good way. I really think that this is one of the most beautiful countries in the world, that at the same time there are a lot of things that we can do, but that we can do. For example, on the subject of migration and integration, we simply need to proceed with reciprocity. It is precisely the enormous achievements that we have here, freedom, equality, the rule of law and openness that make this country so special. That also makes it reasonable to make demands on everyone who comes. But I also stressed that this reciprocity also applies the other way round, so whoever is here and who is trying must also be able to count on our reciprocity.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-3.u34	Mr Snels, on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-3.u35	I always find it commendable when rulers make a nice reading. Even if it is then a way to run for CDA list drivers, it was an interesting way. I found it interesting that he stood up for the middle class. That is what Group chairman Dijkhoff of the VVD has already done. That too will be an interesting battle. I do worry about who we are talking about with "the middle class." I think the Minister of Finance shares that with the VVD. It's one to three modes. With three modes, it's easy to say it's people who make a ton. When GroenLinks talks about the middle class, we are talking about the bus driver, the starting teacher, the people who work in care and the youth care workers, who demonstrated again yesterday, are not appreciated and succumb to the pressure of work and the pressure of performance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-3.u36	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-3.u37	My question is very simple: are the youth care worker, the novice police officer and the young researcher at the university among the backbone of Dutch society? I have my doubts about that at the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-3.u38	Mr.Snels does himself and also me a little short, because yesterday I indicated that the middle class starts under fashion and then continues up to two to two and a half times modal in income and that this is for example a teacher with a partner who works part-time or two people who have a flower shop together. I can give you a lot of examples. The interesting thing is that when you ask people if they belong to the middle class, a very large group of people in the Netherlands say yes, even if they do not fit the definition used by GroenLinks. Many people regard themselves as belonging to this group. I say this without any reproach for all the good things that have happened over the past ten years, even in the difficult years of the crisis, but I think that we have been too long with each other as a political assumption that this group, with which it has always been good, would continue to be good automatically. I think we've come to the point where we realize: no, that's not a given.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-3.u39	In any case, it is very pleasing to see so many CDA-prominents suddenly in box-K. I find the story I heard yesterday, absolutely not a story of fear but a story of hope. In my view, the government is already exploring one point through the WRR and the ESC: how do we deal with the cost of public health in order to ensure that it is supported in the future? In my view, however, the same type of analysis on social affairs and employment is still lacking at the moment. Would the Minister not also see a kind of call for such an analysis to be carried out in this area too?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-3.u40	If I listen carefully to Mr Slootweg, he actually joins the debate that I have had several times with the Chamber and in which a majority of the House has always said: look at affordability. That feeling has also been regularly exchanged with me in the other part of the States-General. If I understand Mr Slootweg correctly, he says that we are already doing this for VWS, but let us also do it more broadly for social security. I can imagine the inspiration behind that question, but let me answer that question to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment, in the category'shoemaker, stay with you'.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-3.u41	I will not talk about the lack of older people in the middle class, because they are also less and less affected by pensions. I want to talk about another point. The Minister has made it a major point that there should be substantial cuts and reversals: less in public health. Let one in seven Dutch people work in public health and let there be negotiations on the collective agreement. If you have an honest story, you can't connect those two things. You cannot call for less public health and then talk about the middle class, because the middle class works for an important part in public health.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-3.u42	I do not hear a question and I am going to try to limit myself a little bit, but I would like to say that this is extrapolating a misunderstanding that I do not think there is. I have talked about the long term and about what you should do to make sure that just all these arrangements, including care, some would say: care will remain available to all Dutch people. Because that is one of the enormous achievements of this system. In the Netherlands, no matter what he earns, anyone can go to the general practitioner and the specialist. I think we all want to keep it that way. We are sometimes critical of public health, but our public health is at a level that hardly anyone in the world can measure. But we must also not close our eyes to the growth of past costs and growth that seems to continue, because we also consider these other issues important, because we also want to opt for schools and because we also want to opt for safety and all those other issues. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-3.u43	Thank you.
