ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u1	The next item is the VSO Draft Decision amending the Decision on the allocation of labour by intermediaries (35074, No. 69). I welcome the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment and give the floor to Mr Gijs van Dijk on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u2	Good morning, Mr. Chairman. We have been having a debate here for a long time about people who are in the Participation Act or in benefits and about people with disabilities. They have a vulnerable position on the labour market. It's often hard for them to find a job. That is why we believe that social posting is a good form for this group, because it means that these people have a certain base and solid ground and can work with employers. In order to make this possible, we have already adopted a motion by Mr Jasper van Dijk in which the Chamber says it is important that there should be a collective agreement for all those covered by the Participation Act. Unfortunately, the collective agreement is not yet in place. We hope it comes soon. To make it possible to socialize this group, I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas people with disabilities need security and clarity in their working conditions;]] [[noting that workers in the target group are not included in the exception to the payroll regime due to the absence of a collective agreement;]] [[calls on the Government to make an exception to the Payroll regime for a collective agreement for workers covered by the target group and to allow this exception to enter into force if a collective agreement is concluded for that target group,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mr Bruins and Mr Smeulders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35074-70]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u3	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u4	Thank you, Mr. Gijs van Dijk. The motion will be copied and distributed. That's what we're waiting for. After that, the Minister can respond. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u5	Thank you, Madam President. I thank Mr Gijs van Dijk for his contribution. I will go back in time, because we have discussed this extensively in the process of examining the Labour Market Act in balance. The aim of this law is to increase the number of people employed and to prevent competition on working conditions. Frankly, there is just a dilemma at this point. That's what we discussed with each other in the legal process. Good and full-time work benefits from equal treatment in terms of working conditions vis-à-vis colleagues, payroll workers. This stimulates employers to hire people directly from job statements. On the other hand, we also want people with disabilities to get a job as quickly and easily as possible and be recruited. It has been a quest and a dilemma to find a good balance in it. I also felt in the Chamber that this balance had to be sought. A posting structure such as broadcasting or pay-rolls can be a successful way of doing this, as can the direct recruitment of people from this target group. However, an exception to the payroll regime could lead to people from the target group, the job appointment, being able to get to work faster in posting structures. This can also make it less attractive to employ people from the target group. Looking, looking, looking. We have a collective agreement for the WSW that meets the conditions. In the AMvB who hung in the Chamber, I made an exception for that. There has been an intensive search with the social partners, including the VNG and Cedris, for a solution. We have tried to identify the consequences of the SAB when it comes to numbers and costs. In terms of numbers, there is considerable uncertainty about the effects. As far as costs are concerned, it has been concluded that they are expected to be limited in the short term. On this basis, I cannot yet comment on the effects of the job deal sheltered work. The consultation with social partners and the VNG and Cedris did not lead to a solution that was supported by all concerned. I have made an agreement on this, and I also have to keep my commitments administratively. Of course, I will remain in conversation with all parties. I understand the question, but I have to discourage the motion. If the Chamber considers it necessary for an exception to be made, I will, of course, do so, but this is all background to the administrative agreement I made. I would like to explain this in detail, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u6	That's exactly what you've done. Thank you. This brings us to the end of this VSO.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-6.u7	We shall be voting on the motion this afternoon. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments.
