ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u1	We will continue with the discussion of the Social Affairs and Employment budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u2	I think that Mr Smeulders is now being given the floor on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the budget of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment. With more than EUR 85 billion, that is also the largest budget of all. It's really about something. It's about the basis of our welfare state. Mr. Chairman. I also have to say that it is a bit of a crazy budgetary procedure, because many large files, which are very important for many people, are actually being dealt with at other times. Last week we talked about pensions and the discounts on them, which fortunately almost all are off the table. This will be exciting again next summer, when the new contracts are under way and other topics are being worked out. This spring we are going to talk about the Borstlap Committee: how are we going to ensure that there is a social security system that fits in with this century, in which all people really get certain assurances? Hopefully we will also have thezzp discussion soon. Before I go to a few other topics, which I would like to draw a lot of attention to, I briefly reflect on thezzp discussion. This morning we received a letter from the Labour Foundation. It is a cooperative body of employers and employees. We have a polder country in the Netherlands, but it is not the case that employers and employees are always in agreement. Only the plans of this cabinet, of this minister, are they extremely united. They therefore start the letter with: "The Foundation of Labour advises not to submit both draft legislative proposals." And then there will be three pages with the reasons why both the employers and the employees think this is just really unsavoury plans. I would like to discuss this today in the Social Affairs budget and ask the Minister for a response. I think the Minister is driving down a dead end street or driving down a big wall, because this is not going to happen. There is no political majority for it and the polder doesn't want it, so please stop. Get in touch with partners to see how regulation can be put in place that works. Mr. Chairman. Then I would like to draw attention to a number of subjects which otherwise receive relatively little attention. This is about two themes: human size and control. Society has become very complicated for a lot of people. People also often feel like they've lost control. They are at the mercy of the market or the bureaucratic government. Professionals don't have enough autonomy. Citizens are actually sent from the locker to the wall. So we really need to go back to a public sector that isn't a machine, but that just works for society, with more confidence in people and more control for professionals. Mr. Chairman. Let me start with the theme of human size. I have read a very interesting book about our labour market over the last few weeks. It's called "exploited." I was gonna take it with me. I could have shown it to you, but I forgot this morning. It's a book about the abuses in our labour market. I would like to ask whether the cabinet has read that book and whether the directors could reflect on it. We have a lot of debates here on social matters and a lot of things also go pretty well in the Netherlands, but when you see how many things really don't go well, it really has to be different. What is the Cabinet prepared to do about that? A group that is very vulnerable are the migrant workers. There is often negative talk about it, but that is a lot of people who are far from home and who work hard for relatively little money, often also in bad circumstances. Unfortunately, the inspection SZW often lacks sufficient resources to maintain it properly. In this coalition agreement, a little extra budget is added. That's really good. Steps are also being taken at European level, but can the Minister or the Secretary of State indicate whether that is sufficient? Any improvement? Yesterday it appeared that the FNV is going to file a lawsuit against another inspection, the ILT. The trade union calls for tougher measures if transport companies do not comply with the driving and rest periods regime. Are the directors of SZW willing to talk to their colleagues from IenW to finally resolve this and to encourage the ILT to make real work of good rest facilities for truck drivers? A few days ago, on Sunday, I went to work with the FNV at the same trucker's parking lot as Minister Koolmees, in one of his first months as minister. It is really degrading what you see there, like people from the Philippines, who have been driving trucks in the Netherlands for two days a week for six days a week. That seventh day they are at a trucker's parking lot cooking their dinner for the rest of the week. And they haven't slept in a normal bed in two years. For two years, they've only been able to face-time at home. Those are the people who drive our stuff around. We shouldn't want that together, should we? Does the cabinet agree and are they finally going to take real steps on this? In addition, we see that there are relatively few organisations that really stand up for the interests of migrant workers. One of the few organizations that does is FairWork. We understood from them that they have to collect a kind of subsidies permanently in order to keep their heads above water. Is the cabinet prepared to see if structural funding is possible, especially for organisations that stand up for such vulnerable interests? I will continue with the subject of control, because we, as GroenLinks, have tabled an own-initiative paper with four MPs, because public sector control is a very broad issue at the beginning of this year. It's called "Together the boss." I am very curious when the cabinet response will come, so that we can have a good debate on this. I've asked you that a few times. Can the cabinet report that? For the moment, I should like to focus specifically on one issue. That is the compositions of the supervisory boards, because we find that there is a very big difference in that respect. In the private sector, this is actually well arranged. For example, in the case of an e.g. employees may appoint a third of the supervisors. They have a right of advice. In the public sector, that is not the case. That's actually really weird. It's just a junkie right now. In education, it has been fairly well organized, in health care hardly in any way. Is the Cabinet prepared to come up with a proposal to ensure that, in all sectors, especially in the public sector, one in three supervisors is appointed by the employees so that there is more emphasis on their interests? I am considering tabling a motion with the CDA's colleagues in the second term. Then there is another subject on which I have previously tabled a motion with colleagues from D66, namely work and care, and leave arrangements. We made a plea for this exactly a year ago in the budget debate and tabled a motion asking: can we make it more attractive? In reply to a debate, I believe two months ago, the Minister indicated that he would involve this in the report on labour shortages. No, sorry, the ibo part-time, I mean. But yesterday there was a cabinet response that is very different. It states: we see this motion dismissed, because there will be a handout and that's it. I also see that the Minister... It was hidden in another letter. I have to tell you, the CNV saw that. We didn't see it. They tipped us off. This can't be the intention. I have been in contact with Mr Van Weyenberg on this matter, and if this is the way in which the cabinet is carrying out this motion, we will simply table a new motion tomorrow in which we will write down much more precisely what is to be done in our view. The idea is simply that work and care are made easier and that the cabinet is going to make proposals, scenarios, how we could do that. We find it a little too easy to say now: there will be a hand-off from the social partners and then we will be done with it. I wonder if the Minister has any idea what kind of letter he's signed. There is another point to conclude, and that is also about leave arrangements, but in a very different way. We held a debate in the House of Representatives on birth leave. It's beautiful, of course. New life is something we need to think about. That is now being taken steps. Europe may force us to take greater steps. I am curious to hear the Minister's response: what is the state of play? We have just talked about work and care, but there is actually very little attention to mourning leave. Honorable honour: especially the SGP colleagues have drawn attention to this in recent years. The most intense thing you can experience as a person is when a loved one dies. You notice at this moment that you are incredibly dependent on your employer for the space you get to grieve, to process it, to pick up your life step by step. Actually, it's weird that there's no more clarity about that. That is why we have written a manifesto together with the SGP. It is called Space for mourning and Mr Stoffer will hand it over to the Minister on behalf of both of our parties in the second term. I do not think this is a subject that is left or right. We therefore hope for broad support from the Chamber and also for a very positive cabinet response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u4	Thank you, Mr. Smeulders. I now give the floor to Mr Renkema, also on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u5	Thank you, Mr President. My colleague has already mentioned this: our society has become increasingly complicated and more and more people have to make efforts to keep their heads above water at all. They often run up against bureaucratic walls. 2.6 million households in the Netherlands have difficulty living and 6 million households receive one or more supplements. But instead of supporting and relieving people, we have made it the most complicated for the most vulnerable people. Where multinationals can hire expensive consultancy firms to invent complicated tax structures, people who have a hard time are sent from the cabinet to the wall by the government and sometimes dealing with whether they are criminal. The most poignant example is the childcare allowance. The IRS has been recovering unlawful charges for years. As a result, people became in debt, had to stop working because they could no longer afford childcare and if they objected, they were actively countered. Here is the example of a total distrust of the government towards its own citizens. Unfortunately, it's not an exception, it's a symptom of a system. What do you mean, human size? In the context of debt, too, we have often argued in favour of doing something about the supplement system. Fortunately, the first part of the ibo surcharges gives clues that we need to move towards a much larger change. We'd like to make a start on that today. Childcare must become, as far as we are concerned, a public provision. This does not cause unnecessary problems for young families, and it is also very good for the development of children. It starts way before they go to elementary school. The WRR has already shown that young children who get the right skills before primary school can go through their entire life, at least their education career, with much more success. They get a much better starting position to keep learning in their lives. I'd like to hear what the Secretary of State thinks of this proposal. I'm preparing a motion on this point. The Participation Act, which we have known since 2015, aims to get everyone to work. Incentives and sanctions are driving people into the labour market. Last week the statutory evaluation came after five years. The conclusion was devastating. This law doesn't work. People are barely more likely to work and the inclusive labour market is still very far away. Unfortunately, some of the consequences that GroenLinks has become when it comes to introducing warned truth. In recent years too, we have expressed our concerns on several occasions. Sometimes this Secretary of State seems very hard of hearing for the criticism we have made. The SCP concludes that the assumptions of the law are incorrect and that the assumptions should be reconsidered. That's not nothing. The SCP does not say that implementation needs to be improved here and there, or that more money is needed. It questions the principles of this law. That is very fundamental criticism. I therefore hope that the Secretary of State is now in need of a fundamental rethink of this policy and that she is prepared to really think about a new course of action. I'll give her some suggestions for that. I do so on the basis of the four assumptions of the Participation Act and what the SCP says about it. The municipalities confirm the idea that a large part of the target group is unable to work. They indicate that in many cases other problems need to be solved before people can focus on employment. GroenLinks has said many times that work is not the Holy Grail; the focus on paid work is far too big for us. Participating in society can also mean participating in the community center, being buddy for others, volunteering. That can be all that contributes to our society being indeed a place where people live together and can meet. Then assume two: instruments act as incentives and contribute to a match between supply and demand. The SCP says that the employers who have used them indicate that these instruments are an important condition for them, but not sufficient to achieve placements. More than the use of instruments, personal commitment by people is crucial, the SCP writes. In several debates, GroenLinks pointed out that this matching alone was not enough. To get people to work really sustainably, intensive guidance is needed, to get people in one place, but also to keep them there. This is a crucial point for employers. We just have to accept that this is going to cost money. We are proud of municipalities such as Amsterdam and Utrecht, where our aldermen have chosen to invest heavily in people who have a considerable distance from the labour market. In the end, the Secretary of State is responsible for ensuring that everyone in the Netherlands can participate and should also be willing to invest in it. I would like to comment on this point. Another direction of solution that we have put forward is the work desk. At such a work desk, everyone should be able, as far as we are concerned, to provide guidance to work. The big advantage would be that you're not sitting in front of someone who's also about your social security, because that makes such a conversation really different. In an earlier debate, both directors responded positively to the idea. Are they prepared to experiment with this in a number of labour market regions?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u6	When someone says "I'm proud of Utrecht," it feels good. I just want to say that. Mr Renkema says: I am proud of our aldermen in Amsterdam and in Utrecht, because they have invested heavily in those people. Investing also means that it leads to something. So my first question to Mr Renkema is: is Mr Renkema like the VVD square behind the objective of the Participation Act, namely getting people along, preferably also on the way to paid work? The second question is then: what are the examples from Amsterdam and Utrecht about which Mr Renkema says "well, perhaps the Secretary of State should shout those high off the roofs, because those have been really good investments"?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u7	To answer the first part of the question, we strongly share the idea behind the Participation Act that you must ensure that everyone can participate. On the basis of the SCP report, we have found that this is not the case. I have put in one nuance, namely that the focus in the Participation Act is really on mediation towards paid work. In some cases, it is necessary to solve other problems first, and this is also apparent from the SCP investigation. Then perhaps people can temporarily do other things to make sure that they are able to eventually walk the route towards work. We do not share the enormous pressure that everyone has to go to paid work. And then to answer the second part of the question: I have noticed in my contacts with aldermen and also with social services and others in large cities, especially in Amsterdam and Utrecht, how much difference it makes as a social service or counsellors from the municipality actively look for people and enter into the conversation. If you actively enter into the conversation from the municipality, that's more than sending a letter. I spoke to someone the other day who had received a letter four times in ten years. That would have led to a half-hour conversation four times. That won't get anyone moving. In Amsterdam and Utrecht people are intensively searched for and the conversation is also started, where necessary at the kitchen table. I think that's a good practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u8	I think I can agree with Mr. Renkema. But then the next question is what happened after that conversation in Amsterdam and Utrecht, which allowed people to actually participate in society.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u9	For example, it's about volunteering at a food bank. Sometimes it's about starting a first contact with people in the neighborhood. It is sometimes very small steps that people have to take to get out of a situation of sometimes years of isolation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u10	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u11	I come to the third adoption of the Participation Act and what the SCP says about it. The assumption was: one scheme is simple and clear and thus also increases the opportunities for the target group. After all, with the Participation Act all kinds of regulations disappeared into one new law. Then the SCP says: "In practice, it appears that there is no single scheme at the bottom of the labour market at all." I have also mentioned this on several occasions. There are far too many target groups in the Netherlands, far too many contact points, far too many regulations. I do not see much happening at this point, while there are so many possibilities, for example, adding the target group sheltered work to the job deal and introducing labour cost subsidies in the Wajong. Please make our social security much simpler than it is now. Then the fourth assumption. That brings me to the most important point. Obligations and financial incentives are stimulating: this was one of the assumptions in the Participation Act. The SCP concludes that the study carried out among municipalities does not show that imposing obligations and sanctions is activating in the sense of more outflow from the welfare allowance. In fact, from other research at the University of Groningen, the opposite even turns out to be the case. I am now quoting from the SCP report: "Involvements are not affected by negative economic incentives, obligations and sanctions." It is perhaps the most important observation. For years, the right-wing parties in particular have spoken tough words about obligations, but no man has been able to get through to work. Municipalities have been asking for more freedom to do what is really necessary. They're looking for experimental space. But on this subject, the Secretary of State suddenly didn't consider policy freedom to be so important. I have repeatedly asked for an evaluation of the confidence experiments of a number of municipalities. How much research is to be done now, does the Secretary of State finally want to admit that it doesn't pay off not trusting people in advance? The human image that emerges from this is that of a gay economist, a rational man who weighs pros and cons: the calculating citizen. But I speak nowadays people who have become afraid of the church and of the UWV, who dare not open letters anymore. GroenLinks wants to break with this, by assuming a fundamentally different image of man, namely that of the person who wants to be in relation to the other, who wants to work well, wants to participate and wants to be seen very much. So it really needs to be treated quite differently. Mr. Chairman. There's a destructive investigation here. One of our most important planning agencies in the Netherlands sends out a very clear signal: reconsider the principles of this law. But what does the Cabinet, this Secretary of State, do? Precisely what has made the law a failure, namely imposing more obligations. Last week she sent a letter on the implementation of the Raemakers' motion, which states that all the municipalities must now really implement that consideration. Beautiful words such as "reciprocity" and "non-freedom" are used for more of the same, namely compulsion and duty. I find that incomprehensible. I would like a response from the State Secretary to the principles of the law and to the evaluation of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau. How does she really point to this investigation? Does she want to adjust her course? Finally. I have also had a number of discussions with the Minister about investigations and experiments. He is a strong supporter of measures based on evidence. For this reason, I would also like to ask the Minister how he looks at the investigation of the SCP and the measures that are now being taken. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u12	Thank you, Mr Renkema. I now give the floor to Mrs Palland on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u13	Thank you, Mr President. "When Daddy graduated, "Reinout Scholten van Aschat says in an interview in NRC at the end of October, "there were many more actors working for a company." "Four hundred," Father Gijs says. "And now... there are fifteen. Maybe 30. Everyone else is freelancer. You're not sure of your life." According to father and son Scholten van Aschat in a recent interview. The SZW 2020 budget is ahead of us and I will focus on employment in particular in this contribution. It is the basis of participation in society, the basis for taking care of yourself and your neighbors. There is plenty of employment, especially in the last year. There's a shortage in the labour market. Many employers are looking for suitable staff and as many as 25% of entrepreneurs indicate that they are being held back in growth and development because they cannot get the necessary staff. And yet there are about 300,000 people on the sidelines, unemployed. The so-called unexploited workforce is almost a million people, people who want but do not want to intervene, who, by their distance from the labour market, may be a risk to employers. The recent study of the SCP shows that half of employers are not familiar with, for example, the no-risk policy that provides for compensation in the event of sickness and other measures that contribute to an inclusive labour market. My colleague will, by the way, go further into the Participation Act. Will the Minister consult with employers' organisations on concrete actions to raise awareness of existing schemes among employers? Sometimes people do not get to work in a sector where there is tightness because incomprehensible rules stand in the way. I am referring to the childcare sector. There is a great shortage of staff and yet a very sharp demarcation has been made of who is allowed to work in this sector, which, for example, should not be used as maternity aid. We have asked questions about this and they have been answered neatly before the budget debate. Yesterday we were able to take note of those answers. The Secretary of State states that it is actually a role for employers' and employees' organisations to look at it again in collective bargaining. I get that. The cabinet does not have a direct role in this, but it can, of course, send a signal and highlight the responsibility to tackle this labour market shortage and to see how effective work can be done to solve the shortage of childcare staff. Mr. Chairman. There are also people who would like to participate, who want to work more but where the combination of work and care or work and training and the tasks at home makes people reluctant. We think it is right that we should look at how we can support families and families to maintain the right balance in work and home tasks and to facilitate them in doing so because it also contributes to the shortage of staff in, for example, care and education, but also other cramped sectors. Finally, on the labour market shortage. One reason why there is tightness and yet there are people on the sidelines is the mismatch between supply and demand in the labour market. There are people who have training for a profession in which there is no job or which is no longer a demand for it now or in the future. That is why it is very good that Cabinet and Chamber should be committed to a lifetime of development, but also that it should be encouraged and supported in the cramped sectors, and that the Cabinet should work with the CDA motion on combination jobs, making it easier to combine jobs and to gain work experience in, for example, another sector. To develop lifelong, we take steps through the STEP and SLIM rules. But more needs to be done. Employers' and employees' organizations are eager to work with the system of learning rights or learning account, and they are calling for major political steps, such as the CNV, which wants to make agreements in collective agreements on its own pot of money for employees so that employees can make their own choices with regard to training and development with support and guidance from, for example, the trade union. For the time being, this self-direction of employees, which we all support, is not yet possible, leaving the employer liable for tax. On the one hand, this causes employers to be somewhat reluctant to agree with employees' organisations on learning accounts in collective agreements, and on the other hand, that the learning accounts that are available are not yet functioning optimally. Our question to the Minister: what options are there for improvement in the design of tax legislation in relation to encouraging the self-direction of workers to develop lifelong? The North Netherlands Economic and Social Council found that the continuing training of workers in the North Netherlands is below the national average. In the meantime, training funds, employers' and employees' organisations and governments have found each other in the North Schools Alliance. They have been designated as a testing ground in the Regional Economics programme as accelerators. However, in practice they experience obstruction of rules in developing an integral way of financing a lifetime, precisely because they are so widely composed. Wouldn't it be nice to give them the space to focus on the purpose of a lifetime of development, without being caught up in all the different arrangements that apply to the various parties that belong to them? They work together, public and private. Can we give them the opportunity to actually do it intersectorally and together? Mr. Chairman. There are also people who have worked as self-employed persons, who have taken out a decent disability insurance or who have taken out another provision, but who have been unlucky to get sick and then have the bad luck that the AOW age went up. A hole in your financial planning; when you get sick, you are dependent on third parties to meet your needs. For this purpose, the bridging regime has been created, but we see that this OBR is only very limited. It is now even proposed that this arrangement should be phased out further. But we are still receiving messages from people who are in trouble. This is also apparent from the SEO report, which we received last Monday. It concerns a group of about 8,100 people. My colleague Van Kent also drew attention to this last year. Following on from the SEO report, the CDA wants to clarify which group is now in trouble, to see what unreasonable disadvantage this group suffers and to actively assist this group. Another point, with regard to seniors, is that research by the General Court shows that groups of older people who are entitled to a supplement to their AOW do not apply. Privacy rules prevent the Social Insurance Bank from actively approaching this target group and reminding them of the supplement to which they are entitled. The CDA has now asked written questions about this. Does the government agree with the CDA that privacy rules should not stand in the way of the proper and effective implementation of policies? This statement is, in our view, broader than just the bottleneck in the old-age schemes, as noted by the Court of Auditors. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is known for its large and growing number of flex contracts. The OECD also points out that the Netherlands differs in this sense from other European countries. That is why we should now take action and adjust it. Moreover, the fact that the Netherlands deviates does not have to be negative. The Netherlands deviates in many ways from other countries and in many cases we are proud of that. In the past 95% of workers had a fixed contract, but today it is 60%; no less than 40% is flex. "Flex" is a very broad concept: zero-hour contracts, min-max contracts, temporary work, payroll constructions,zzp-ship, you name it. As a result, 40% of workers have less security and less risk of a mortgage and are at risk. At present, the investigation of the Board of Directors is under way, i.e. the Borstlap Committee. How does the Minister view this? In the meantime, how does the Minister intend to work on reducing uncertainty? A special category flex is the category ofzzp'ers, a large group of 1.4 million people, a group that is also very diverse. We'll talk about it all the time. There are also manyzzp'ers who have consciously chosen for thezzp-ship: they have chosen for their own direction and can also be very well saved. All good and valuable. What the CDA is fighting is skewing in the workplace: that vulnerable people are placed in a dependent and vulnerable position through azzp construction. These are people who, for reasons of competition and profit maximization, only get jobs as self-employed for a low remuneration, without any certainty. They do not have the pleasures of falling back on anything and are not or hardly able to pay the charges. As far as the CDA is concerned, we are working towards equal protection regardless of the form of contract. This is good for this vulnerable group, but that is also good for countering the distortion in the workplace. We look forward with interest to the implementation of the AOV obligation which is still being worked on by variouszzp'ers and modern workers in collaboration with the Foundation of Labour. Meanwhile, internet consultation is also ongoing on thezzp-measures. We get various reactions that people doubt whether their input has come through properly and whether it is being taken into account, because they do not receive confirmation when entering it digitally. Can the Minister take care of these concerns? Is it well arranged? Mr. Chairman. When it comes to employment, employers are needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u14	Before you proceed, Mr Smeulders has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u15	I have a question about thezzp measures and what is now for internet consultation. I have just said in my own contribution that there was a letter from the Labour Foundation this morning, from employers and workers. That letter is really devastating about the government'szzp plans. Does the CDA agree that these legislative proposals cannot be passed and that they should be withdrawn, as the employers and employees ask us?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u16	I think it's too early to conclude now. I can see the concerns that exist on both sides. We get those reactions as a party, of course. I also see some kind of hesitation, at least I think I see it with the Minister when he says: I call for a broad social debate aboutzzp; what are we going to allow and what not? But I think it's too early to pull the plug here. I think it is important to hear from the field what the reactions are, where possible solutions are to make it easier, in order to make it clearer. If we call this off, we'll actually fall back to a no man's country, to the Law DBA that we don't want to go back to. In any case, I would like to await the Internet consultation and see the cabinet response to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u17	I know the CDA as a party that values the polder and the civil society that we have in the Netherlands. If both employers and employees say that they do not like this, if the entire opposition in the House of Representatives says that they are not happy with it, while there is no majority in the House of Commons and in the House of Commons, is Mrs Palland prepared to look together with civil society and the opposition to see if we can come up with better plans, which we can hopefully implement quickly? 'Cause otherwise we're really gonna lose a year with nothing at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u18	I do think that polder is very important. And it is now reflected, I think, in the internet consultation. I am always willing to see how that can be done better and what we can do about it. But we'll have to go through that process first. And pulling the plug in advance, I really think that's a step too far. As I said, we fall back on a no man's land, and I don't think we want that either. There is a strong call for enforcement. And then you have to have something to maintain. I don't think we've figured that out yet. We are also going to talk about this regulation. Mr. Chairman. I'm getting my last piece. When it comes to employment, employers are also needed. But is it still fun to be an employer in these times? Entrepreneurs prefer not to complain quickly, they prefer to solve their own business. But we've put some on their shoulders in recent years. Especially for small employers it is difficult to cope with it all. The pay-as-you-go payment and the transition fee are at the top of the frustration lists. It is good that next year the SME absenteeism insurance will be available, as well as the financial compensation for small employers. But is that enough? Does the Minister have any additional plans to facilitate and encourage employment? And finally, to get back to those categories ofzzp'ers. Isn't there a chance for this group to be lost, too? There is a group of people who work as self-employed without staff, but who do want or have the market potential to grow into a zmp'er, an SME. But they do not want to hire staff and therefore cannot take that step forward. Is there a risk of being lost here and shouldn't we even look at this further? How does the Minister view this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u19	I am quite right to hear Mrs Palland argue that the employership must also be fun and somewhat manageable. In my contribution I asked the Minister to come forward with the results for the first quarter in which the Labour Market Act is in force. With this law, we are also trying to restore a little balance between employers and employees. I asked him to come to the Chamber in the near future with the results. Does Mrs Palland support this request to the Minister, so that we can actually achieve further improvements in the labour market, including for employers?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u20	Yes. I hear you mention it, and I think it's a very good point. Of course, one quarter doesn't show everything. So it'll be some kind of first reconnaissance, a first reaction to the experiences with that law. But it certainly seems very relevant to me to do so. So it's a good proposal from you as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u21	Thank you, Mrs Palland. I now give the floor to Mr Peters, also on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u22	Thank you, Mr President. This morning, before this debate, we spoke in our group room with an entire club of people from family businesses. Very nice to see how well they have those people in the picture and how hard they want to help them when they see that there are problems, but also very annoying to notice what they run into. A number of things I'm here to talk about today. First of all, the Participation Act. We can't get around it and we'll talk about it very extensively soon, even in this house. The conclusions of the SCP were clear and, although we can't be surprised by it, still shocking. The introduction of the Participation Act has not led to an increase in employment opportunities. For the bulk of people who depend on the assistance, there is no difference in the chances of finding work. For people who depend on the social provision of employment, the chances of employment even decreased. Partly this is due to the start-up problems in municipalities, partly because a significant proportion of the welfare recipients are not able to work at all and partly because the Participation Act has not made matters much simpler. Finally, quite a part of the target group is simply not in the picture. The Secretary of State is trying to stop the implementation of the Raemakers motion: an appropriate offer for everyone. There is some uncertainty in the media about what the Secretary of State means by this. Does she now ask municipalities to talk to each beneficiary individually, to see who it is, what he or she can and needs and then come to a plan together? It is strange, for example, that municipalities know on paper whether someone has a diploma, but not whether he is building carnival cars, in a manner of speaking, and is therefore creative and able to weld and work together. I think that's very necessary. Or does the Secretary of State of Municipalities ask that each beneficiary provide compensation in the sense of any work that can be physically carried out? I'm not so charmed about that last one. People don't kick you out of their misery, they try to help you. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State to remove that ambiguity too. The Social and Cultural Planning Bureau does talk about vulnerable municipal finances. How does the State Secretary weigh this? I've been getting a lot of calls about childhood care problems and stuff, but these problems aren't so much. How does the Secretary of State weigh up the ignorance of employers with many regulations and what will they do to bring these schemes to the attention of the public? Municipalities indicate, just getting on steam with the implementation of the law and explicitly ask not to change too much. How does the Secretary of State weigh this wish in the light of the findings of the SCP? Finally, I am asking about the so-called poverty trap. The SCP does not speak of this, but the Participation Act does not offer what the Labour Party and the VVD ever hoped. Maybe there's a direction of resolution. I see Mr. Van Dijk wants to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u23	I see Mr Gijs van Dijk as well, but I wondered if you had said everything on this point. Yeah? Then I will go to Mr Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think Mr Peters and I are going to agree. Mr Peters was one of the better former aldermen who reported to the Chamber: don't use The Hague dictatorships on how we guide people to volunteering or paid work. That's exactly the signal. Can Mr Peters imagine that there has been an enormous confusion, for example following the VVD's Facebook post and the ruling in the Volkskrant, where the real emphasis is on the obligation to pay compensation anyway?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u25	That's why I'm asking for clarity. I interpreted it differently because I read that letter in the Volkskrant. Knowing the Secretary of State somewhat, I don't think she can mean this. I have heard that uncertainty with people too, and I would like to take it away if I could. I don't actually look at the VVD's Facebook page. I'm gonna have to do that sometime.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u26	I'd rather not look at it either, but sometimes it scares me. I have read what your group chairman Pieter Heerma said in the General Political Reviews. He said, "What about the government's answer? More and more long forms and regulations. Compliance thinking. As long as it's on paper and all the ticks are set. And civilians become despondent. Services are often unreachable, anonymous and little helpful." I thought: when I read this, the CDA will also be critical of those assumptions in the Participation Act, which the Social Cultural Planning Bureau has so accurately dissected. Is that right? Do you agree with what the SCP report writes, that a fundamental rethink of this law is necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u27	I agree with what Mr Heerma says, you will understand. I thought it was brilliantly formulated, too. I also agree with the conclusions of the SCP that we have done well-intentioned things that have not received the result that was hoped for. We should not change too quickly and too radically, I understand that municipalities want to do so, but look at what works and do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u28	Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u29	I'd like it to be different, coming back to the poverty trap, but working doesn't pay off for a lot of people in this country. Anyone who has to get out of the assistance at a minimum income must get a lot of work done and work more than 0.7 fte in order to improve even €1 on paper, and that often does not work. Moreover, we are dealing with this poverty trap, which gives people the chance to pay back bonuses and at least lose all kinds of support. Mr. Chairman. If they could get to work, it would probably cost them money. It's not generally the case that these people are rotting at home. They have other tasks: caregiver, mother, father, volunteer. This also makes it difficult to find a full-time job instantly. For employers, they certainly do not deliver the minimum wage at the outset. Then it is easier and cheaper to work with foreign forces. See here an insoluble problem, at least as long as we keep doing what we've always done. Mr. Chairman. The Nibud calculated it years ago: the level of welfare is not enough to die of, but not enough to really live on. Take into account that paid labour is one of the most important conditions for a happy and healthy life and you understand that the CDA wants to do everything in its power to make these people fully human. Our proposal is simple and we have talked about it many times: the basic job, although some talk about basic income. There are still a lot of hooks and eyes to that, I understand. But what does the Secretary of State think of a pilot in that area in this case? Then the subject of homelessness. It is, of course, scandalous that the number of homeless people in our country is growing at this time. That really can't be the intention. No one wants that either. I understand that all kinds of components are attached to this, like living. How does the Secretary of State view a reduction target as "in five years' time, half of them have a home" on this point? Another topic we have often discussed here is the removals due to the inability to pay for a house. We will return to this during the VAO Debts and poverty, together with Mr Kuzu. Then there is the cost-sharing standard, also in the context of the homeless. One day it was explained to me that it is very important. A hardworking neighbor can't be explained that six people live in a house, with together €4,000 net spending per month, while no one works. Let's assume that the cost-sharing standard works and that those six people no longer live in one house, but in three houses. Because of the rent subsidy these six people now earn almost €5,000 net and in times of housing shortage they keep three houses occupied. Can the Secretary of State explain to me how that can be explained to the hardworking Dutchman? Is the Secretary of State prepared to investigate the effects of that standard now? Is there, for example, a relationship between the increasing number of young people without a roof, the so-called couchsurfers, and this cost-sharing standard? Can we get clip-and-ready clarity about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u30	I hear Mr. Peters pleading for an investigation into the cost-sharing standard. Research is always good, because it provides knowledge. Does Mr. Peters imply that he actually wants to get rid of it, or did I misunderstand?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u31	Look, as it works with research: if research shows that the effect of that cost sharing standard is not that more people are going to work........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... But I'm not getting ahead of myself. I just want to be objective and honest about what it does first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u32	In addition, I can agree with Mr Peters that we do not have to go back to the way things were once, namely that a lot of families are on welfare and make a lot of money, which you will never get out of when you go to work. Paid work is therefore an important part of the research.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u33	Paid work, I think, is the goal we're all here for. There's all sorts of things being said about it; does it have to be paid or not? But science simply tells us that paid labor is the most healthy thing for a man. I believe that this is not only because of income, but also because of self-esteem, social contacts and so on. So that's what I want.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u34	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u35	My third point. We all know that the government is the largest creditor. Many of these debts are caused by so-called increases and fines and are in fact irrecoverable. Our argument is that if those debts are indeed irrecoverable, writing them off on paper, but in the real world they don't cost money at all. Does the Minister agree with us on that point? The CDA therefore advocates a so-called biblical jubilee year; a year in which all government-created and irrecoverable increases are forgiven. I'd like to get a response from the Secretary of State on that point. Finally, respect education. We have also seen some nice samples of it today. And also during the debate with Mr Van Dijk last week on respect, racism, anti-Semitism, homophobia, and so on. Friend and enemy agree: integration and cooperation can only succeed if there is real contact between people. We believe that it is a task of the government to promote this. But where do you put that now? Is it a task of SZW, of Education, of Justice, of Welfare, etc.? In short, I think it is a matter for all of us. After the murder of Theo van Gogh, Rabbi Soetendorp took the initiative to talk to young people in schools about respect, in all its facets. That works; friend and enemy agree on that as well. But that costs money; everyone knows that too. There is no clear ministry under which this education could fall. So far it's been paid by the Ministry of Education. That's where it stops now. We propose that the Ministry of Social Affairs should take over for at least two years. That costs twice $500,000, so not so much money. It is a small amendment, but still important and tabled by the CDA, partly on behalf of my colleague Rog.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u36	I had another question about the social security system. You see moving insights from the parties, namely that closing the social service was a "historical error." I'm quoting the CDA's scientific agency.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u37	Such brilliant people again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u38	Absolutely, brilliant. A historical error: the closure of social services. Mr Peters says today in the newspaper that this was not good and that we need to see how we can maintain the sw, preferably country-decking. I know that municipalities can do a lot of things now, but then you do not have the guarantee that you will maintain the land cover, as Mr Buma once suggested.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u39	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u40	Is Mr Peters prepared to look with me at a good proposal to maintain the sw nationwide, with the necessary financial resources if he so wishes? I have a bill on sale. You're welcome!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u41	Well, I'm happy with any ad for former collaga Sybrand Buma and our science agency anyway. I think that I have said very clearly here every time that having that infrastructure of social employment is important. You can't do without the knowledge of the people, of the target group, and not without finding and sometimes even making labour that suits these people. Municipalities now have that task and many municipalities do that well. Like Mr Van Dijk, I also hear that things may be a little less on the left and right. We have asked the Secretary of State in various motions to proceed with this. I also know places where things are going very well and where a lot of people in the Participation Act are being helped by such a social enterprise. So I think you should have that infrastructure. I'm looking with interest at your bill, which certainly doesn't mean in advance that I'm signing at the cross. But I think you understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u42	Now we would also like to see butter with the fish. The CDA is well-known for the fact that they often see right things in the plenary, but then they do not give them at all at home when they vote. Last few weeks it has become clear that the social workshops are indispensable. A large group of people do not come to work with employers at all. It's just that they benefit so much from a social workshop. My question to the Honourable Member of the CDA is because he supports the cabinet; his party is in the cabinet.. is what he is going to do about it. How much money is he going to put in to ensure that these social workshops are maintained and that they are re-established where they are still needed?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u43	When it came to implementing the Participation Act, I put a question to the Secretary of State. The SCP says that there is also a financial aspect to this. I asked how the Secretary of State weighs it, and I would also like an answer to it. Quite frankly, I get phone calls from a lot of aldermen about financial problems around the Wmo and about youth care. Under the Participation Act, I get them a lot less. So I want to know how she weighs that. Secondly, I would like the infrastructure to be maintained for social work provision throughout the Netherlands, also covering it. That doesn't mean I want to go back to the old social workshops. That's why I sometimes vote differently, because that's how I write it down. I don't want to go back to the old social workshops like they were. I want the infrastructure and sometimes these people can work very nicely in a company with a customized place. There are many more possibilities. That's in the municipality right now. If there's a financial problem there, I'll hear it from the Secretary of State and we'll have to deal with it all, because we need them. That's obvious. If there's no other way, there's no other way. But I don't want to go back to that old social work facility. I want to go to modern social enterprises. They must be everywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u44	I agree with that last plea: the social work provision new style, 2.0, whatever you want to call it. But it is true that there has been a bad report. It doesn't look good. A lot of people said that a long time ago to the then Secretary of State. There's been a lot of action. But there's a bright spot in it. It says that people benefit from a job coach. It also says that it should be permanent, because if you place someone at a company it is not finished. That counseling must remain. We have argued before for the right to a job coach. Do I find the CDA on my side?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u45	I agree with the analysis. There is one thing that works very well: human contact. You'll find out, but we knew that. That is one of the most important factors at all. If anything works, it's human contact. That's true in education, but it's also true here. That it doesn't stop if someone's placed in a job, I guess it does. You can do that if you're working through a social enterprise like that. I don't want to lose that infrastructure for nothing. Those people know about the target group, can place them and can accompany them in that place there or coach someone who will accompany him there if necessary. I really need to think about formulating it as a right, because I don't know exactly what I'm gonna untie.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u46	You want to think about that. It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u47	I'm glad it didn't ricochet in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u48	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u49	I'm very happy about that. At least it's an opening. One of the most important things that happened at the time of introduction is that things were transferred to the municipality, but the money didn't add up. It was also an immediate austerity. Is the CDA also convinced that this is a huge blunder and that you must also ensure that the BUIG money is sufficient to make it real?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u50	Anyway, I think that if you do a job, you have to do it with resources. That's why I asked the Secretary of State to tell me how she weighs it. I have to say that I have to think about a video I saw on the internet today, interviewing people on the street asking if extra money was needed for education and care. Yeah, it was the answer. The next question was whether it is not scandalous that gas is pumped up from Groningen. That was agreed. And there was money in the D.O.D.'s office, too. Finally, we were asked whether we are paying too much tax. Too much, the answer was. So, unfortunately, it's not that easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u51	Thank you, Mr. Peters. I now give the floor to Mr Van Kent on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u52	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u53	What have you got on him?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u54	A sign and a book, Mr. Chairman, thank you very much. Congregate! is called the booklet of Thijs Lijser, a cultural philosopher who, based on the Communist Manifesto of Marx and Engels, made an analysis of the current labour market. It appeared last week. Reading tip for everyone. The analysis he makes is about the division in the current labour market, about the contradictions, for example, between permanent workers and workers with uncertain contracts, the contrasts between wage-earners andzzp'ers, and the contrasts between pensioners and young people. In conclusion, this division is very large, but the contrast between labour and capital is still unabated. Whereas those contradictions are not and should not be there, because both permanent and insecure contract workers are the victims of these contradictions. An employee with an uncertain contract earns less, but because there are employees with uncertain contracts, the person with a fixed contract also earns less, according to De Nederlandsche Bank's research. Mr. Chairman. That is why there are two proposals. At present, out of the nine million workers, three million have an insecure income. Those could be zzp'ers, zero-hour contracts, contracting, payroll, you name it. All kinds of constructions that have been invented by now. Successive governments have tried to change that with the Labour Market Act in balance, the Work and Security Act, you name it. But for the time being, this doesn't seem to work. The trend is becoming more flex, less and less certainty is continuing. That's why the SP says: tackle this problem at the source. In concrete terms, therefore, we propose to impose a flex standard for employers of 10% in ten years' time. In other words, companies are obliged to limit the flexible shell to a maximum of 10% in ten years, which also applies to the hiring ofzzp'ers and outsiders and to having employees on temporary contracts. I am very curious to hear the Minister's response to this proposal. A second proposal I want to make today is to compensate the employee for that uncertainty. After an initiative proposal, which was included in the Labour Market and Balance Act, we managed to get the employer to pay a little more for the flex worker through the WW premium, but the employee has not yet been compensated for the damage he or she is suffering. In any case, this damage is 7% less wage. If you take all the other features off, you'll go from 48% to about 7% less pay. But because the chances of a flex worker getting into the WW are greater, we think that this uncertainty should also be compensated. That is why it is reasonable to add an extra 10% to that. My question to the Minister is whether he sees this for the future of the labour market and for reducing the amount of flex work and compensating for that uncertainty for workers. A lot has also been said aboutzzp'ers. We had a heated debate on this in the committee room. In fact, all the opposition parties who were present indicated that they were absolutely uncomfortable to assume €16 for the lowest paidzzp'ers. Thosezzp'ers then practically live in poverty and can already knock on the door of the municipality for a poverty pass, while the highly paidzzp'ers, with a rate above €75, can escape our total social security. "A bomb under social security" was then called by us. The CNV also noted that it would cost 1.7 billion to continue opt-out schemes. That's a staggering amount. I am also very interested in the Minister's response to this. In short, it is a regulation and a law that really is a disaster for our labour market and that does not solve the problems. In fact, they add to the problems here and there. It is therefore not surprising that no employers' or employees' organisations are happy with this. I asked for that during an interruption. The VVD could also not mention an organisation that is still pleased with the legislative proposals put forward by this government in the internet consultation. Today it became clear that SMEs, VNO, FNV and the others organised in the Labour Foundation reject these legislative proposals with a great deal of reasons. I would therefore call on the Minister to withdraw the law immediately and to come up with a better proposal. Otherwise, the Minister will only be able to explain retroactively, looking back, why he has not managed to do something about these false self-esteems in his period.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u55	I think that there are some fine elements in the bill. One of them is indeed that minimum rate. I also like the fact that there will be more room for entrepreneurs at the top of the market. What strikes me so much in all this criticism, which, frankly, reminds me a bit of your reaction to the SAB, is that the social partners find each other in one thing, namely that what lies ahead is not right. Now I don't know about you, but I haven't seen a counter-proposal. I can also tell you something: that is not going to happen either, because they are going to fight each other out again. Is it not the Minister's role to find the middle ground? I would like to invite Mr Van Kent to reflect on that. To be honest, I find it rather easy for everyone to be critical. That's fine, but I haven't seen a counter-proposal from the social partners. I am not talking about Mr Van Kent, because I know what he wants, and I do not agree with that. But doesn't he think that the parties to the Labour Foundation now have a duty to come up with a supported proposal for what they do want? 'Cause that's still missing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u56	I also think that the Labour Foundation should come up with a proposal as envisaged by the SP. Let there be no misunderstanding about that. What is discussed further within the foundation and what is possible there is, following me, part of a process of negotiation. It seems to me that your Minister has done some gossiping that at least cannot count on the support of those employers and employees. Nor can it count on the support of the SP or on the support of many other parties here in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u57	I still can't imagine the SP voting at a minimum rate for self-employed people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u58	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u59	Then Mr Van Weyenberg assumes that we will vote on it. My point is that we're not going to vote on that, because if everyone rejects it, it's a dead law. Then the dead law better be thrown away immediately, so we can start with something better. In a few months' time, we will prevent this minister from coming to the conclusion that it is a dead law and that at the end of his reign, he will only be able to tell us why he has put paper back and forth for four years and has achieved nothing. That would be a problem. You would help your minister by saying the same thing instead of interrupting me here and saying that the SP should support that €16. Let us take steps. Let us uphold the current law, for example in the case of those who are clearly malicious. They say a lot about that, but Deliveroo still works in the same way. For years we have been debating this with each other. For years, we've both seen that what happens at Deliveroo is illegal, needs to be stopped and no good. And your minister won't do anything about it. All he does is write a law that no one agrees with, instead of taking action against those fraudsters. Mr. Chairman. I ask the Minister the same question as I asked the VVD, namely: can you indicate which employers' or employees' organisations still support your law? And if you have to remain guilty of the answer to that or if the answer is negative, are you prepared to withdraw that law immediately and come up with something better? Mr. Chairman. I was talking about that contradiction, including the contradiction between young and old. We had a debate on pensions this morning, so I won't repeat it here, but it was basically that indexing is important for every generation, for workers, for pensioners, for everyone. What this cabinet does with the pension agreement is not that this indexing takes place for every generation. In fact, we must constantly discuss the prevention of pension reductions here. We are not talking about indexing, we are talking about preventing reductions. This is totally unnecessary and has everything to do with accounting rules, which make pension funds poor, but nothing to do with reality. Mr. Chairman. The threat of pension reductions is in stark contrast to the pocket-fillers in the pension sector: pension fund managers, senior pension executives, who go home by four, five to seven tonnes a year. It can't be. It's inexplicable. We have raised this with pension funds. They're flooded. We even had to make standard e-mails for that and everything... by pensioners and employees who say, "What are you doing to me?" These parties cannot set limits. We, as SP, believe that if these parties themselves cannot set boundaries, then politics should do so. We don't think that's the only thing. We asked Maurice the Dog to run a poll last weekend. This shows that 85% of the Netherlands agree with the SP. It also applies to the VVD. 81% of your voters, dear VVD, agree with the SP's proposal that the beaming standard should be imposed on the pension sector and that pension money should not disappear in the pockets of drivers, but that pension money should be paid by pensioners and employees. In the case of the CDA voters, 87% agree with the SP proposal that the beaming standard should be introduced for this sector. I made a proposal like that earlier. This was supported by the entire opposition minus the SGP. So it was supported by the entire opposition. We only need one or two more parties to get a majority for that. I appeal in particular to the VVD and the CDA, whose supporters support this proposal so incredibly massively, to join us. First, I appeal to the VVD and the CDA to participate in the appeal to the Minister to organise that. If that is not taken up by this minister, I call on him to table a motion together. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Palland rightly referred to the 65-plus hole, as we have mentioned. This is the problem that people have with insurance and benefits up to 65, while the AOW age has passed 65. This creates a revenue gap. Last year we brought Piet and Paul forward with videos. Paul was sitting here in the bleachers, too. Mr Heerma supported us in this because this really is a choice of the government whose citizens have simply fallen victim to it. At that time, the Minister promised an investigation. That is what we have in the meantime, and I must say this: after a very long time of pressing, we have been given the opportunity to do so. That research actually only shows that the group is large. Furthermore, the Minister only says that in the future we will be working with disability insurance, including forzzp'ers. That would solve the problem. Yeah, but not for the people we're talking about right now. So I fully agree with Mrs Palland's questions on this. Through this minister's assistant, I handed the case of Piet, which I described last year, and a new stand-in thereof, directly to this minister. The Minister's been informed. I call on him to act and to study the situation of Piet. It is not just about Piet, of course, but about many thousands of people. I call on him to come up with solutions to correct this great injustice and resolve these problems of thousands of people. We will make this call first and take another step later, if necessary. Mr. Chairman. Finally, young people who have to pay from their 18th adult prices but do not earn an adult wage. A year and a half ago, Soufian took off half a suit at Ahold's shareholders' meeting. A lot of people will remember that image. The action was successful. The age at which the youth wage starts has been reduced from 23 years to 21. We believe that a further step should be taken here. We have written a manifesto, together with the Labour Party, and have invited other parties to participate. For example, GroenLinks and 50PLUS responded and supported this. The trade unions FNV and CNV and many youth organisations, for example the LSVb and organisations from MBO education, have also done so. I would like to present that manifesto text to this Minister through you, asking him to respond, of course, positively. We hope that we will have a great deal of support to take this next necessary step, so that we can put an end to the divisions between young and old. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u60	Thank you, Mr. Van Kent. It is now offered to the Minister and the Secretary of State. I now give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u61	Thank you, Mr President. Last week the SP got right from the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau: the Participation Act failed. I'm just saying it in my words, but everyone who's read the report has seen that the SCP actually says that. People were promised a job, but they didn't get it at all. Or they got a job, but for a lower wage. I remember from 2015 and from the time before that the Participation Act was proudly announced by Mr Samsom, Mrs Klijnsma, Mr Rutte and Mr Asscher, because it was all part of the participatory society. But it was an illusion; it was an empty promise. Social services were closed down and people are now sitting at home on the couch instead of getting to work. Yesterday I saw Mr Asscher in the television programme De Hofbar in fact apologize for the same Act of Participation. I also ask the Secretary of State to reflect on that law, which is so highly controversial. And what did we see? We saw in the newspaper last week that the Secretary of State is showing muscle and says: that consideration really needs to be laid down even more firmly in the law for everyone. No misunderstanding: I think it is very good if we ask people to make an effort. People who can work have to work basically. I think that is a very normal starting point. The Secretary of State must think much better about who exactly are the people who are in the welfare service. I am convinced that the vast majority of people want to work in the assistance or, as it is called in the jargon, to participate. Maybe it's 5%, a very small group, who's deliberately bottled up. I see the Secretary of State nodding in agreement. You can be firm with that. Of course, you can take action for that. But I think it would be unwise to say, for the whole group, to all the people in the assistance that they have to provide a return, for example, to continue working without pay. Because that is what the mandatory compensation may amount to, which may also lead to displacement. You know the example of Harry, the street sweeper, who had a wonderful job in The Hague, for a nice wage and with decent working conditions. He was fired and could then go through the municipality to do the same work again: sweeping the streets, but in the assistance. Of course, "obligatory voluntary work" is also a contradiction in terms. Does the Secretary of State recognize that this kind of displacement can never be the intention? Mr. Chairman. If you as a VVD are so keen on that consideration, then your own story must also be well composed. As I said to Mrs Tielen, if we all have to read in the newspaper yesterday that Mr Dijkhoff is paying €37,000 a year for waiting money, which is about two and a half times a welfare allowance because he has been a minister for four weeks, then I do not think that is very strong. Then it would be strong, Mrs Tielen, if you also asked Mr Dijkhoff for a consideration. Then the story is consistent again. That's the reciprocity. If you say to Mr Dijkhoff "you must be forced to wipe the streets" or "you must be obliged to clean the Tower," then perhaps we can talk about that. But now it's very inconsistent. I would like a reply: what is the consideration and what is the reciprocity of this waiting money for someone who has been such a short minister? Indeed, I appeal to everyone who gets this money to think about it again, because society doesn't understand anything about it. This is just plain gray behavior. Mr. Chairman. The closure of the social employment service was a historic mistake, I repeat the CDA. That is why the SP proposes to re-open that social work facility, a social work facility new style, or social development company, you can also call it. There, people will be given a safe haven, but also the opportunity to be posted to regular companies on the labour market and can always fall back if it is not possible. That was the mistake of thinking in 2015, that everyone could get into the regular labour market. The same was said about appropriate education: all pupils with disabilities, with disabilities, can attend an ordinary school. It's not true. You need special schools. You need social workshops. Hence my bill to maintain and open up the social employment services nationwide. Let me give you an example: SOWECO, a wonderful social work facility in the Almelo region. I have been there visiting people who are extremely happy that they are allowed to work there, people with a sw indication as it is called. But SOWECO is being dismantled, because the six municipalities, the six aldermen who deal with it, believe they can do better themselves. A wonderful facility is being dismantled, is actually being destroyed, because those aldermen know better. I think this is mainly about their egos and they don't know what they're destroying. That is why I had tabled a motion to ask the Secretary of State to visit them and to speak with those aldermen. The Secretary of State has answered my questions and she writes that there will be a visit on 5 December. December 5th: full of expectation our hearts are beating. I ask the Secretary of State: are you going to go yourself, or are you sending civil servants? I think it would be very good if you went yourself, because that also sends a signal to the people who work at SOWECO by saying: be careful about this provision, do not dismantle it. The support for the sw grows by the day. We see the Labour Party saying sensible things about it these days. We see the CDA saying sensible things about it. We see the FNV and VNO-NCW. Mr Hans de Boer is our absolute ally when it comes to the sw. I'd say, what does it matter to us? From poor to rich, from long to short, the support grows. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna move on to wages soon, because wages are still behind. I would like to draw the attention of the Minister for Social Affairs to shopkeepers throughout the country, in Utrecht, in The Hague, in Amersfoort, who rise up against their low wages. The holidays are coming and that's nice for all those people who go shopping, but a lot of shoppers don't have the budget to buy presents at all. Those are the so-called working arms. You have a job, but according to the Nibud you fall under the category "poor." Isn't that scandalous for a country like the Netherlands? I thought they had that in the United States, but we still have it here. I ask the Minister for Social Affairs if he wants to go shopping with me in Utrecht or The Hague, I don't care. Rotterdam, says the Minister. There's talk about that. But it's about the shop staff. Does he want to talk to them about their income? Why don't we see what we can do for them? A well-known proposal from the SP is an increase in the minimum wage.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u62	Then you can buy a nice suit for Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u63	So, we're gonna see this one again, Mr. Chairman. I didn't get any of that back. I didn't get any of that back. I will take this up with Mr Kwint and I will come back to this in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u64	I am prepared to contribute to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u65	I think that's very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u66	Suddenly the wallet is drawn, Chairman. Do you notice?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u67	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u68	Mr. Chairman. An increase in the minimum wage actually has only positive effects. Unlike the Central Planning Bureau that says it costs 4.5 billion euros to increase it by 10%, SEOR, the independent agency of Erasmus University, says that it costs 3 billion euros to include the so-called income effects, i.e. the tax revenues you get when you raise wages. The benefits are much greater, because you can see that it has little effect on employment. You can see that the remaining wages are going to rise. If you raise the minimum wage, it'll push up the other wages. And purchasing power is increasing, because the people with the lowest incomes will immediately spend it in the same stores we were just talking about. In short, everyone is improving.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u69	That always sounds good: everyone's getting ahead of it. I like that, too. Only when I see those calculations about Mr Van Dijk's proposals on the legal minimum wage, it turns out to me that, above all, a lot of money, over 1 billion, is going to go to benefits, when we want to have all those people working so badly. Does Mr. Van Dijk recognize that consequence of his proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u70	Yes, it is very good that Mrs Tielen reminds me of this, because an increase in the minimum wage automatically leads to an increase in the benefits that are linked to each other and to an increase in the AOW. And that is right, because the social minimum is too low, I repeat Mariëtte Hamer, President of the Economic and Social Council. People can't make ends meet. So I want to raise the minimum wage and I want to raise the benefits so that it remains attractive to go to work. If you are against poverty, you should support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u71	And indeed, the VVD also thinks that it should be attractive to work and that it should pay more if you go to work. This is also one of the reasons why the employment discount will be applied next year. Well, then we'll make sure people get on with it. What does Mr. Van Dijk specifically want? I can't quite know, but quite frankly, I think that most people who work in sales deserve more than the statutory minimum wage.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u72	Well, that's not so bad. People in retail, catering and in all kinds of places earn the minimum wage or earn up to 110% or 120% of the minimum wage. They therefore immediately benefit from an increase in the minimum wage. I would like to say to Mrs Tielen: you heard your own Prime Minister, Prime Minister Rutte, say before the summer 'the only thing rising here is wages at the top' and 'we thought it was a very bad thing'. I couldn't agree more. At that time, he made a good appeal to the business community to raise wages. The SP has also received a parliamentary vote to increase wages by 5%. I think we all agree that these wages should be raised. Only, there's one small problem: it doesn't happen. The SP has proposals to increase these wages in concrete terms, because the minimum wage is something that politics is about. If you raise the minimum wage, you raise all the other wages right away. I am therefore offering the report by SEO to the Minister and I ask him to respond to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u73	Yeah, the SP is active on that file.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u74	That's right!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u75	At least with pieces and notes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u76	If you're critiqued, you have to have an alternative. And that's what the Minister has in his hand. Mr. Chairman. Labour migration takes all kinds of forms. I was recently at a campsite near Alphen aan de Rijn. It's actually just structurally inhabited by migrant workers. We always have all kinds of views here about permanent habitation of these kinds of caravan parks. Well, I can tell you it happens, all over the country, through migrant workers. You can see the situation of the double hat. This means that the agency is both landlord and employer. And I find that very undesirable. It's kind of a feudal situation, because if such a migrant is critical, he's not only lost his job, he's also lost his home. That doesn't fit in with this time of year, I think. I'd say take that apart. Does the Minister agree with me that that double hat is undesirable? Soon, I can tell you, the SP and the Christian Union will come up with many more proposals on labour migration and its regulation. Mr. Chairman. I fully agree with Mr Peters on the cost sharing standard. I'm gonna finish with a point about the socio-medical indication. As you know, there's a lot wrong with the surcharges. The childcare allowance is not only a matter for the Secretary of State for Finance, but also a matter for this State Secretary. How does she look at the supplemental bacle at the IRS? This week, my colleagues have tabled a legislative amendment which allows partners who receive daily spending to claim child care payments so that the working partner can continue to work. This is actually the same for the socio-medical indication, but it is organized by the municipal authorities. Can the government investigate how municipalities deal with that socio-medical indication? I'd like a commitment from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u77	Thank you, Mr. Jasper van Dijk. I now give the floor to Mr Van Weyenberg on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u78	Mr. Chairman. We're now about halfway through the cabinet period, even what's past. In those days, both rulers have done a lot. Let me mention a few things, such as the Labour Market Act in balance. I just heard that my colleague Van Kent wants to supplement it with a few things. I like that. That's a lot better than the battle after he tried to bring the law before, I say to him. We have extended the inspection for a fair labour market. Work has started to pay more, partly because we have made money available for the childcare allowance, but also through the design of the child-related budget, I say, while I look at Mr Eppo Bruins. Together with him we have tried to find a comprehensive balance in the form of the measures. There is the Law Cradle, the extension of birth leave. There's a financial resume. If you then apply, you will receive a form from the UWV, which states: If you hire this gentleman or lady, you are entitled to this and this support. We really hope this will give people better chances when they apply. A step has also been taken in the area of payment of wages in the event of illness. Mr. Chairman. But we're far from there. Even after the elections, there will be plenty left to be desired. I will also end with a few points on which I would like to look further ahead. But first, a little closer. I would like to talk briefly about pensions. We're not going to discuss them in detail here. We've done that before. There's a pension agreement. I repeat, however, that it is important that the actual impact of pension contracts is there before the summer. This is important for the new pension system. It is, of course, also an important condition for postponing pension reductions. Mr. Chairman. There's azzp law in consultation. At the end of my speech, I will tell you what my group is looking at tomorrow's labour market. There's criticism of what's now on the table. That's okay, too. But it is clear that there is a legislative proposal in preparation that is mainly trying to show that one self-employed person is not the other. At the bottom there is protection, with a minimum rate. A web module is now being tested. That will be and will remain very complicated, but we are trying to move forward. There will also be a self-employed declaration above a certain hourly rate. People will have more freedom and security. Let us not forget one thing, I say to anyone who criticizes this law. I'm sure it's not perfect, because this subject is incredibly complicated. But we're not doing this because we thought, "Come on, let's make a law." We're doing this because we've come to the conclusion that it's not going well, because that Law DBA has caused a lot of damage to real self-employed people. As a result, clients have become shy of hiring people. At the same time, at the bottom of the picture, Mr Van Kent still had totally the same group of people who are employed as self-employed but who are not at all and who do not find protection. So I say to all those who are critical: they may, but then I hope to hear from you what you do want. I say this to both parties within this Chamber and outside this Chamber. We, too, will, of course, be critical and careful when it comes to this proposal. Mr. Chairman. When it comes to discrimination, we're still... I see Mr Van Dijk, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u79	Maybe you could finish your sentence first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u80	But I moved on to another subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u81	Okay, fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u82	Mr Van Weyenberg asks: how then? Well, I have an idea. I also have an idea of how you can make parties, at least those on the left, look more friendly at the proposals. That is an ideological point, namely that it is said tozzp'ers who earn more than €75 per hour: "You will get an opt-out. You are no longer involved; goodbye." This will affect the solidarity of the social system. If D66 is willing to change that, I think she can expect a completely different attitude from the opposition.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u83	But this is also the search for this law. By the way, that law isn't here. The concept is now in consultation. It is important for my group that where many self-employed and employers are insecure, we are trying to provide them with more security so that they can be self-employed. We do this via the web module between €16 and €75. Above that €75 there is, in time limited, the space where one as a self-employed person is doing it all neatly, knows: no one is going to come along for wage charges. So I think that's important. My group attaches great importance to this balance. I looked very closely at that bottom of the minimum rate. I understand these concerns, and I share them. I hope that Mr Gijs van Dijk will take a very good look at the impact he is concerned about when dealing with this proposal. I believe that I am genuinely making a different weighting than he is, apart from the fact that I may be ideologically different in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u84	That's right. That opt-out needs to be cancelled. It is very strange to opt out people with a very large income and to be excluded from our social security system. But I would like to give you a second point, the minimum rate of €16. People here in The Hague can apply for an Stork Pass, a pass for low-income people, because they do not have enough to spend enough to live decently. It is a rate based on the social minimum rather than on the minimum wage. We had a discussion about that. If you ask the opposition and others what should happen, then we think that this applies to many other left-wing opposition parties. I'd like to give that to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u85	Actually, it's two points. The first is the fear that this will be the bottom. I get that. I am less afraid of it, but of course that is absolutely not the intention. This is really meant to lay a base at the bottom. It would be very wrong if, in practice, for all kinds of sectors, it meant that tariffs would go down to that rate. We shouldn't have that. So let's take a good look at that together in law enforcement. For me, the goal is that we protect the people who are under it now. Then there is the level, and that is what I sympathise with you, as I have said in previous debates. The social minimum of €16 is of course only a limited soil. I also asked you to give me a sum of what would happen if you took the minimum wage. That calculation is now included in the documents, for which the Minister is grateful. Then you come to €25 and a few more cents. Now we can have a whole debate whether we think it is too high or too low, but the conclusion is that, unfortunately, I am not going to have this substantive debate because the Minister said: if I did, my bill would simply not stand up in Europe. He has said that this is the only way he can do that minimum rate. That rate is already a variant of what we really wanted to do in the coalition agreement, and that if he were to deviate from the social minimum, Europe should not do so because it is a distortion of free movement. I have also always asked the Minister whether he can make that happen. I also do not have an ideological point to explain why it should be €16, €17, €18, €20 or €21, but as I have always understood the Minister's documents, he says: loose or I would like to, if I wanted to, I should not be allowed to apply that minimum rate at all. That's why I support that €16 now. During the treatment I will also continue to see if that is indeed the maximum we can do. If the conclusion is that there is still room, then there will be a political discussion about what we find, but this is, as far as I am concerned, really primarily inspired by European rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u86	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u87	Thank you, Mr President, but this is going to be an important question in dealing with the law, and I was happy to talk to Mr Van Kent about it, which, of course, we are going to do in the legal process. The third point is the still high level of discrimination on the labour market in terms of age, origin, name or skin colour. It's a persistent clot. I will say something about this in future, in particular about the legislative proposal that is now coming on about a greater role for inspection, but certainly also about the recruitment and selection phase, on which we received a letter from the Secretary of State a few hours ago. Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to address poverty and debt. We have had extensive extended general consultations on this subject. My colleague Rens Raemakers will, as it is called, also submit a motion to the VAO, for example, a proposal for a repayment break: two months a year more air when you are working to pay off debts, so that you get some more air to do some extras, for example in a month with sintering class and Christmas. What I really want to draw attention to here is faster access to debt relief. As far as I am concerned, the Justice Council has a good opinion on this: see if people can get there sooner. Don't let things take too long, but make sure that people can get on such a path faster. I would ask the Secretary of State to reflect on this and I will return to it in the second term. The second point is the Participation Act and the implementation of the Raemakers motion on an offer for everyone in the assistance. The evaluation of the Participation Act is indeed not easy; I agree with everyone. At the same time, we have not introduced this Participation Act, an initiative of Secretary of State Klijnsma, for nothing, with much support from the Chamber. Because the old system wasn't sustainable either. People didn't participate or didn't participate. The social employment provision, where people earned up to 140% of the minimum wage, was not sustainable. Also in the Wajong was a development going on that we had to deal with. I'm still proud of the adjustments we've made. That bill contained a mandatory consideration for everyone. It was taken out by the three parties who then worked with the cabinet. That bill contained a much tougher sanctioning policy. That has been watered down by those three parties. In that bill was the idea that anyone in the Wajong who could still work in part would go to welfare at once and, if he had a partner or some wealth, would lose his entire benefit. Fortunately, that too has not become a law. However, the Act on Participation that is currently in force is still not working properly in a number of areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u88	You quit, and that is why Mr Gijs van Dijk thinks he can interrupt. How far along are you? Well, you're just getting started.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u89	Yes. I quit now, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u90	I think we're skilfully poking out a VVD balloon this afternoon. I heard the CDA right. That says that we all have to see it differently, that it's strictly communicated, but that they really mean something else. In this case, as happened last week, Mr Raemakers' motion was dragged in. D66 wanted that commitment, and now we're doing it. I hope to hear another sound from Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u91	Then you're ahead of me, but that's nice; thank you for that opportunity. I took the words of the Secretary of State once more. I think she's saying, "We're gonna make people an offer." And that is indeed not a non-binding offer. I am very pleased with the implementation of the Raemakers motion because this offer is intended to help people. This could be debt relief, training, or help with a ggz or Wmo problem. The key point is that we do that for the people and not because you have to do something in return for your benefit. You know that my group has never dealt with that jargon. It is also not the case that everyone now has to provide a compensation obligation, no. That's all right with the municipalities, but that's what we're changing. We are now saying: municipality, you may also choose that offer that is in the interests of people. That way you can take people by the hand. The fact that you are sometimes behind people's pants to work on themselves is fine with me, but I would like to ask the Secretary of State once again explicitly to confirm that there will be no mandatory compensation for people in welfare.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u92	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u93	As far as I am concerned, that is quite right. Apart from the fact that the evaluation shows that it does not help at all for many people, I think Mr Jasper van Dijk said that, and rightly so, the profit of implementing Mr Raemakers' motion, widely supported in the Chamber, is that we place much more at the centre of people's interests. By the way, we are going to take much more account of the level of people in the language requirement. Of course you have to do your best, but asking someone illiterate to read Dutch after a short period of time is an illusion. You just have to help someone like that. That too is a sensible line of the Secretary of State. I'm okay with that. And yes, sometimes you'll have to be a little behind people's backs, but that's exactly what I see happening in a lot of municipalities. I heard a colleague mention Utrecht; I think that was Mr Renkema van GroenLinks. But also in Amsterdam, a whole group of people have been called into the assistance for a very intrusive conversation. I think most of the people want it, but if people are on welfare then maybe you should give them a little push once in a while, you should help them. But the importance of people is always at the heart of D66, and not some kind of "hear for what" thinking. On the contrary, I am very pleased that the letter from the Secretary of State also distanced us from it. Enschede, Groningen, Rotterdam; I see a lot of municipalities that want to work to activate people. 'Cause there's too many people on welfare for too long. Those are people who are left to their fate if we are not careful. And I think that's antisocial. I would point out that 60% of the people in the assistance do not think they have a job application obligation, whereas that is only 10%. Something's gonna go wrong. Then there's obviously something wrong with the contact. There is a council in which the motion to have once a year contact with people in welfare was dissuaded by the alderman. Something's gonna go wrong. Yes, indeed we can be strict with the people in social security who do not cooperate. That is what my colleague Jasper van Dijk rightly said. But then something goes wrong, because we leave people to their fate. And that's why I see this as a really different approach that we need to come to together with municipalities. So I would like to hear what is going on with the consultation with the municipalities. They say, "Yes, we felt a little surprised." And I'm also referring to the imagery in the media. There were things in the media that, as far as I am concerned, were not in line with the agreements which the Secretary of State did not mean to do either. But how is she gonna take this together with the municipalities? I'd like to hear a response to that. Will the Secretary of State also comment on what she sees in the experiments of confidence? I can see that they give a lot of space to a group of people in the welfare system. That's a group of people who helped with that, too. We'll wait for those results. I'm very curious. But what does the Secretary of State see when she visits? I see very good examples there too. Could she say something about that too? That is also how D66 finally sees that we need to do so in the welfare sector. There will always be a group of people you have to be very hard on because they don't want to. That's a very small group, a small minority. Then a municipality can also occasionally use a consideration. That space offers the law. There is no misunderstanding about that. It's up to the city. But the alternative is that you make municipalities an offer, an offer to activate people. And yes, you can be a little harsh on people. That's what you do to help them, not to punish them, not to make them feel guilty. And it is my conviction that there will also be a group of people, to whom a congregation must say: I have spoken with you for a moment, I trust in it, and I give you freedom. That's what's happening in those experiments now. That might be the biggest group. And then I think that as a municipality, you'll have plenty of room to use the best approach per person. As far as my group is concerned, that is the perspective. Mr. Chairman. By the way, I am still curious what we are going to do when it comes to really caring for the group of people who are not eligible for sheltered work. That still has to grow, by the way. I share all the concerns about that, but things are getting better. But one of the groups that I might be most concerned about is the group in which it is necessary to decide whether they can earn the minimum wage themselves. When I read in the evaluation that municipalities are mainly going to help the well-intermediate people who find their way, I am afraid that the group that is most vulnerable is now at the back of the queue with the municipalities. How does the Secretary of State see it and what does she intend to do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u94	This is in line with my point on social employment. Of course, the SCP has also spoken harshly about this, in the sense that the idea that people could work in the ordinary labour market has not come to fruition. And now you see more and more parties saying: that was actually not good. That hard closure of the sw in 2015 was not a good decision. Can I get D66 into that too? Do you also say: that may have gone a little too fast; we need to look carefully at how we can keep that sw alive; and we need to guarantee nationally that there is a place everywhere for someone who is suitable for the sw? Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u95	I am not saying 'yes' or 'no' on this one, because I find it too complicated for that. For starters, anyone who was in the sw could just stay there. I think that's important to me to say to people. Sometimes the impression arose that everyone there had lost their jobs, but people could just keep working at the sw companies. That's important. For those people, that is a very important part of their existence. They were able to keep that place. That was an important precondition. I believe you were also pleased that we did so in the previous period. The second is that there is a group of people who work for sheltered people. It was very difficult to get started. When I read the evaluation now, it seems to be going a bit better, but still goes much better in one place than in the other. So we're really gonna make sure that what we've come up with with the number of places sheltered work is actually gonna happen? We're really gonna make sure those places get there. That is not an obvious success. We need to be very alert about that. What I don't want to go back to is the old sw. They included people who earned 140% of the minimum wage, while the sw is meant for people who cannot earn the minimum wage. So there was also a reason to change things. I do agree with Mr Jasper van Dijk that you need to make sure that the infrastructure is there and that municipalities can do something for those people. I'd like to give them some space in that. I also see a group that is not eligible for sheltered work, but may not yet be able to get to work with a regular employer. Of course, we all like it if it succeeds and we want to do everything we can to do so. For those groups, we need something. I've seen the basic job idea of the CDA. It's got hooks and eyes all over it. But it seems to me that there's still a gap there. We have to make sure, if people live in a municipality and are entitled to sheltered work, that it is also common.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u96	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u97	I think it would be good if the Secretary of State explicitly confirmed in this Chamber that these experiments of confidence would continue. Those experiments are simply left untouched; that is also important. I really hope we learn something from that. I think it is very important that we also look at a lot of investment in people in welfare, who have been in it for a long time, namely that this does not only have a return, to put it mildly, because people are getting started and we are saving a benefit. The Secretary of State is making a start on this. I think municipalities are going to see that you also save all kinds of other costs if you activate and help people, and if they start working, maybe at the beginning in volunteering. That was one of the reasons why I also liked the idea behind the Participation Act and I think it is really very important. I hope that municipalities will also make that integral assessment. That might sound technical. It means that you're probably earning back the few thousand euros you invest in on the front, probably triple by preventing debt and preventing mental problems and problems in families. I am glad that we are now trying to have a strong numerical basis for this, also to help municipalities. That's a very good investment. I say this personally: I have dealt with the Participation Act in the Chamber on behalf of my group. This is one of the things I expected the greatest benefit of. Then I want to move on to a number of other points, starting with the human size and the UWV. I think that is what Mr Smeulders was talking about. Good implementation is important for the support of social security. We've cut too much on that. This applies not only to the Tax Administration, but also to other implementing organisations. People want contact at the vulnerable moments of their lives. Now, I believe that this Minister has played a rather leading role in the Ministerial Committee on Implementation, which we read a lot about. I can't wait to see what's going on with that. If, for example, unemployment rises, we have now arranged for people in the WW to keep personal services at the UWV level. I welcomed that clear answer from the Minister in a debate a few weeks ago. But have we also arranged that this is the case in municipalities, and that even if it is less, municipalities will not have to cut back on people's support, especially when there are probably more people in the welfare sector who need it? Would the Secretary of State be able to reflect on that? Can the Minister go into it again how we're gonna do human size? It's easier said than done. Last week we heard the story of a young mother, who was suddenly better reported. About everything went wrong in the process. That can happen once, however annoying, but also in the process afterwards she found hardly hearing to solve that. I doubt anyone's good intentions, certainly not the people at the UWV, but things are really going wrong. How can we do that better? That's what I'm asking the Minister. I would like to warn you once again, after all the fraud surrounding the WW and the Poles, that as a Social Affairs Committee we should not fall into the error in which we fell on the tax side after the Bulgarian fraud. All tough and rolling motions, from left to right in this Chamber, to think later that we have created a climate, even in people in the execution, of strict, stricter, strict, with which we have lost sight of the human dimension. Let us learn, even as MPs, from the mistakes that have been made there. That's what I'm saying to myself. The second point is the non-compete clause. I made a proposal on this with Mr Gijs van Dijk of the Labour Party today. I can imagine some special circumstances in which you have a competitive clause, so that you don't walk with your client base to the competitor tomorrow. But I think there's been wild growth. On the one hand, in the case of temporary contracts, it is supposed to be the rule that only in the event of a serious business interest can a competitive clause be established. Well, Mr. Chairman, it's still rough and rough. Physical therapists are simply told that they have a competitive clause and are not allowed to work within so many tens of kilometres. In a time of labour market shortage, this has only one goal: to ensure that your staff cannot ask for a better salary, because they cannot leave. In fact, they're being obstructed from getting on the road somewhere else. It's a form of retaining your staff in times of tightness. I find that really unacceptable. This tightening up is not how the law was meant to be. Does the Minister share the great concerns I have about that? I know that this also applies to Mr Gijs van Dijk. Secondly, on fixed contracts, you can see that this is just everywhere and nowhere. In all the other countries, when you invoke that non-compete clause, which in fact means you can't get to work, you get some compensation. We need to narrow that down well in time. It's a big deal. If you live somewhere and your partner has a job there or you've bought a house and you're limited by such a contract clause to work within a distance of 30 to 40 kilometers, that's some kind of necklace you're wearing. That is not what the competitive clause is for. It is intended to ensure that the employer is not harmed when people run off with all kinds of business information. I understand. Unfortunately, I do not think that is the case in the case of about 20% of the people who have such a thing in the contract of employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u98	I'm happy with that last nuance that comes forward here. I also believe that there are excesses in applying the terms of competition. I would like to hear from Mr Van Weyenberg whether there are indeed enough reasons to apply it. This could be for companies that pay for training workers or have very sensitive business information. It would be a shame if we tried to solve excesses on the one hand with excesses on the other hand, making it very complicated for employers to keep their businesses running.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u99	I will honestly confess that I once thought: why don't we abolish it? In fact, about ten years ago, there was a legal procedure in this Chamber. That's when it was decided not to. I thought: if the employee does what Mr Wörsdörfer says, that is a tortuous act. You can't do that. Do you really need the competitive clause for that? The story at the time was that that is a very complicated legal road and I am sensitive to that. I say to employers: in order to keep it where it is really necessary, we will have to ensure that it is a fair tool for the workers. I would ask Mr Wörsdörfer to return to that balance, and I hope he agrees with me that it will be used for those cases. Unless Mr Wörsdörfer can tell me why it is for a physiotherapist who does work and does not have any information, for heaven's sake, to be an argument to include a competitive clause. I can tell you: I know a lot of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u100	That wasn't exactly something I was thinking about. I had, of course, read the announcement of this idea and it was rather short. I'm thinking of very innovative companies. I know D66 as one of the champions of companies in the digital economy and I think it would be very unwise for us here in the Netherlands to say that it is absolutely impossible to include a competitive clause. There will then be a lot of innovative new companies that say: you know what, greetings, then we will not go to the Netherlands. I don't suppose that's what D66's supposed to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u101	That was not in the proposal put forward by Mr Gijs van Dijk and me, which you were able to read. It's just... it's gotta be about this kind of thing. No one wants you to run off with the secret recipe or the secret M.O. This does not apply to 20% of contracts of employment, and that is the extent to which it seems that the competitive clause is now being used. But let's do it for the wrong cases, so we can guarantee it for the right cases. I hope to find him on our side. Mr. Chairman. Then labour market discrimination. A motion has been passed on the obligation to report to temporary employment agencies who receive a request for discrimination in recruitment: do not do me Ahmed, just a Steven. Then you're gonna have to call it in. The Secretary of State shared the goal, but was reluctant about the instrument, if I may sum it up. We received a letter on this today. The Secretary of State is now thinking of a different form, a kind of code of reporting, because he is afraid that the other is very difficult to shape in practice. I'm gonna take a good look at that when we're gonna deal with the law, but I'm gonna say one thing. If we were to take that step, I would be more comfortable if the report from that code were sent to the labour inspectorate and not to anything from the temporary agency itself. I'm a little bit chasing with the Secretary of State, who's looking at me to see if we can find each other somewhere in the middle. I see the Secretary of State's struggle, because I consider reporting to be very important. We still have to look for the shape. The crux is that we need unconventional resources here. It doesn't go well enough if you still have to apply for an internship four times more than here with your grandparents' birthplace in another country. I want to look at it. Finally, Mr President, I have tabled an amendment with a number of colleagues, Mr Bruins, Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Smals, in order to continue Diversity in Company for four years following the Charter Diversity. There is still such a world to win in the business world in the Netherlands, that this seems to me to be the only time to stop this beautiful initiative. With this amendment of a total of EUR 2 million, this instrument under the ESC, which helps companies to become more diverse, can go on for another four years. I hope that they will make maximum use of that money if the amendment is adopted. But somehow, I have a pretty good faith in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u102	One of the things DENK and D66 share is combating labour market discrimination. I am also very pleased that D66 is actively committed to this and that on 24 September she tabled a motion on reporting obligations. Now I've checked the timeline a little bit. I have seen that on 4 October the inter-branch agency for temporary employment agencies announced to the outside world that it was against such a duty to report. I read this morning the letter from the Secretary of State stating that the temporary employment agencies have a point. Does Mr Van Weyenberg think that the Secretary of State should listen to the Chamber or the temporary employment agencies?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u103	This is questions about the familiar road. It is something else in the motion, but I think the ruling of the Chamber is decisive. I see the Secretary of State looking, and I'd like to look with her. Whether or not the temporary employment agencies are happy is not a decisive factor for me. The question is, can I make something workable, something that works? I think that's where the Secretary of State's concern lies. During the treatment, I want to look with her for something that brings closer to the goal that we both share. But I'm not doing that because the temporary agency doesn't feel like it, but because I think that's the best system. I would like to go back to that with Mr Kuzu in the legal process. Moreover, I do not doubt the approach of the Secretary of State, but I believe that the same applies to Mr Kuzu. Then I'd like to close with a look at the future. During the Political Reviews Mr Heerma had an intro that was three quarters of his text. Although I have some speaking time left, I hope I do not imitate him, but rather the other way round, no matter how good I have always worked with him. The first thing I want to talk about is the position of women in the labour market and the importance of working more hours. In practice, these are mainly women in small part-time jobs. More than 50% of women still work part-time the day after they start. Then there are often no children, but that is almost a kind of culture. I still find that remarkable. We have also held many round tables about this in the Chamber. It's about a deeply rooted feeling. I find that worrying for a number of reasons. The first reason is that we cannot afford it: it is a sin of talent. It is a waste of talent from people with good education who can contribute. This is not being sufficiently exploited. Of course, it is ultimately the free choice of people, and there is no misunderstanding about that. We can make it more attractive in taxes. We can make it more attractive by taking steps in child care. Moreover, there are many reasons for taking a fundamental look at childcare. Because we want to get rid of that supplementing system in which people get lost; often it is the biggest recovery in child care. Because it's about development; child care is not just a way for a lot of people to manage care, but it's also child development. It is an instrument that helps young children, for example, to go to primary school without lagging behind. That's why I think it's very important. Thirdly, because it is indeed the way that makes it possible to combine work and care for your children.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u104	Were you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u105	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u106	I was gonna finish up anyway. You said, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u107	Yes, but I warned you that my "finally" was almost as bad as Mr Heerma's introduction to the APB.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u108	There's a surprising question that comes to mind. I hear my colleague from D66 say that we should use talent as much as possible. But then you could also think of a six-day workweek. Then you can use all those talents for more days. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u109	If Mr. Stoffer wants to work six days a week, that's up to him. In fact, I have a vague suspicion that he's already doing it. But seriously, I'm not arguing here that everyone, in a private situation where you're alone with two children, should work for five days each. That's what I think of people themselves. My big concern now is that we have a lot of people in relatively really small part-time jobs, say between 12 and 25 hours, where a number of hours more or a day more work can really contribute to health care, education. Of course we must do something about the workload, I tell all those teachers and all those people in the care who say it is already so hard. Half of the women in this country are not economically independent, I hold Mr Stoffer in mind. I think that's a big problem in itself, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u110	If these women or men do not find that a problem, does Mr Van Weyenberg find it a problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u111	If people are not economically independent, then in practice, after a divorce, which unfortunately happens regularly in this country, people have a problem. It's often the woman who had a ten-hour job every week. Unfortunately, they are heavily overrepresented in the welfare figures of this Secretary of State. That's what worries me. And yes, economic independence is a value in itself for my group. It will not surprise Mr Stoffer that I say so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u112	I think we will continue to look at this fundamentally differently. Let's just get it over with. We look at it fundamentally differently. Then I have a few more questions for the next speakers. Let's just get on with it. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u113	Mr Bruins with a whole new angle, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u114	Of course. You're used to it from me, Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Weyenberg knows that I look with mixed feelings at the 2 billion that has been pushed up in this year's labour cut. In an earlier debate, last year's General Financial Reviews, I started by telling you that if a medicine doesn't work anymore, you shouldn't increase the dose further, but you should start looking for another medicine. I and my group believe that the reduction in working time has now been so much pumped up that you cannot continue to pump it up. This is not going to help to further increase the employment rate. Do I have Mr Van Weyenberg on my side to look together for other medicines, other tools, to think about how to increase employment rates in the future in order to increase labour productivity, to ensure prosperity in our country in a way that combines private and work well? Can we look together for other, new instruments?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u115	Yes, I always like to think with Mr Bruins about what better we can do or what more we can do. I do not agree with him that raising the employment discount does not help to make work pay more. Moreover, the chosen design in the Prinsjesdag pieces of course also had to do with the fact that we wanted to be able to say to all the self-employed that the limitation on the self-employed deduction would be compensated for them personally by a higher employment discount. That was not just an employment target, I say to my colleague. In the past, I have seen that what we have done to support childcare or the income-dependent combination discount has a positive effect. If you stopped doing that, you'd lose it, too. I should like to warn Mr Bruins about that. My plea really wasn't a plea for just more, more, more work. Let there be no misunderstanding about that. It is something to work towards economic independence. You can see in the new CPB estimates for the coming years that labour supply is going to decline. The number of people in the labour market is falling, while we still have to pay for care, education and pensions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u116	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u117	I always like to think on. This also means that we have to look fundamentally at things like surcharges and how we shape them. In addition, I have one warning. This minister is also about purchasing power cards. But if we want to look fundamentally at how we can make work pay more, simplify the tax system, let me also say that to Mr Bruins, with perhaps less instruments, so that we need fewer supplements, then perhaps we should also look at an instrument like the minimum wage and how we shape it. But that's always gonna mean that you're gonna do it in a way where there's gonna be pluses and lovers somewhere. If we're not going to say that we're not going to change anything large-scale if there's a minus in a purchasing power figure somewhere, I'm afraid we're not gonna get anywhere. I also hope that we have the courage to do so together. In which I would like to give the following as a reflection. It seems very bad, then, that little mint, a little bit apart from the value you attach to purchasing power plates. But the current system, which supposedly covers perfectly, has a lot of disadvantages. People end up in debt when they make a mistake. And the experience is that a lot of people do not make use of bonuses or income schemes that they are entitled to. So when we look at these purchasing power cards, I hope we also realize that that's only half the story. Although it may look very good for a lot of people on paper, in practice they do not know how to redeem that right at all. Mr. Chairman. The second point is leave of absence. Yeah, maybe make more hours of work more attractive when you want to. But also more space at special moments in life for important private matters. During this period of office, we have increased the birth leave for partners. I'm still very proud of that, I say in all honesty. And it's a start. In fact, a motion by Mr Smeulders and myself had been adopted during the previous budget debate, and perhaps we should have made it even more clear to ourselves afterwards. That motion has been interpreted a little bit as: will you tell us again what is available? While that was meant by both of us as: let's think about what you want. Grieving leave has been mentioned. I find it very complicated what I have to say to parents with seriously ill children. Mr Jasper van Dijk has drawn a great deal of attention to this. Yeah, we shouldn't want to anchor everything in legislation. I believe that employers who do not help those parents on leave while their child is dead and dead are guilty of antisocial behaviour, on which I will continue to address them, because that does not suit a good employer. We will not be able to solve everything in this Chamber unless society helps us. But we also need to think fundamentally about whether these leave arrangements are sufficiently broad. Do they offer enough space at special times in a human life, when there is an increasing demand for care? I think that's a nice combination: on the one hand make it possible and attractive to work more hours, but on the other hand create more space at the special moments in life, if you really need it. Yeah, well-protected, too. Then I will continue to call on employers to continue thinking independently of any legislation. Because you're an employer, you're a human being, and I've really seen examples that I would be ashamed of if I were an employer. Fortunately, I also know that a lot of employers do not do that either: they just release. That's a good thing. Like Mr Smeulders, I would like to ask the Minister whether he would also like to think a little more fundamentally about variations concerning that leave. Would he like to think about one arrangement? It is now very fragmented. Does he want to visualize variants towards the next cabinet formation? The final point of my three-part conclusion: the future of the labour market. We've already talked about the self-employed. But this really isn't just a debate about self-employed people. If the legal treatment, and I see it now, proves something, it is that we can try to cut with scissors how people work, whether it is a contract of employment or a self-employed person, but the labour market has long since stopped following what we are thinking of here on the drawing board. People work in different ways. That wouldn't be so bad if we hadn't hung up our entire social security and tax system on exactly what comes out of cutting those scissors. I think that the Borstlap Committee should give this fundamental consideration. Shouldn't we go to a system where the form of contract is no longer relevant to a number of basic securities? But how do we ensure that, on the other hand, if we want people to be able to choose between more self-employed work or more as an employee, how can it become more attractive for an employer to offer people a contract? Because I still come across a lot of SMEs saying that this two-year pay-as-you-go payment is still a millstone for me, despite all the improvements, and I choose a self-employed person. Sometimes they have to pay a transition fee, after they've done their utmost to help someone get to work. That's considered unjust. They've employed someone for decades, and they'll have to pay for it. We have taken good steps here with the SAB, but I continue to find these complex questions. I really think that anyone who thinks that only dealing with self-employed people is supposedly restoring the balance on the labour market does not do justice to the fact that most self-employed people work as self-employed people with pleasure and conviction. But it does not do justice to the balance that many employers make. We will have to ensure that people can choose fairly between those two variants in a system that is more separate from the contract. As far as I am concerned, that is the thinking process. This raises difficult and sometimes uncomfortable questions about the level of social security and obligations for an employer. I look forward to the substantive debate on this. In addition, I still find the concept of a single contract for employees interesting, because if there is one group that is really dissatisfied on the labour market, apart from a small group of self-employed people who are really exploited and what I consider to be sensible for is the minimum rate, then it is the workers with flex contracts. They are 80% dissatisfied, while only 20% of the self-employed are dissatisfied. I hope that the Minister will really want variants of that single contract to be developed, and that his officials will also do so after receiving the Borstlap report, so that we can continue this whole fundamental debate, which I am looking forward to now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u118	Thank you, Mr. Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u119	I give the floor to Mr Gijs van Dijk on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u120	Mr. Chairman. Let me start again this year, with compliments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u121	I'm gonna sit for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u122	Why don't you sit down for it, because I thought we'd have that right at the beginning. There's a broad-based pension agreement. That's good news.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u123	That's good news... No, no, hello, that's not a compliment to myself!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u124	No, no, no, listen! Pensions have been in action and have been under negotiation for ten years. I was allowed to do that myself in a previous life. We never managed to make a deal, and this cabinet did it. With some support, indeed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u125	Mr. Van Weyenberg, are you going to ruin Mr. Gijs van Dijk's party?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u126	Yeah, that's too bad. I was just as relaxed here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u127	I am going to increase it, because I would like to congratulate Mr Van Dijk on the fact that, after ten years, we have come out with a large group, including Mr Smeulders and Mr GroenLinks. I look forward to the results in the next six months. So I just wanted to hang up a few extra balloons, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u128	Well, we'll see about that. The second compliment concerns the extension of paternity leave. That's incredibly important. That's what we've been thinking for years. We've been pleading for it for years. For fathers and partners it is important to be able to be there with your child just that first time, to start right away, to divide work and private also better. This is still a big issue for many families in the Netherlands. Too often it comes down to the woman. If you do it together from the start, you learn to divide it properly. So that's the second compliment. A final compliment, but an important one, is that the Minister, with the premium differentiation in the WW, starts to price uncertainty. I already see a number of employers sending very nervous messages to us and to the minister, but that is a good sign, because that means it works. That's good. Normally, you say, "but..." I won't say that, but I do have an input that also makes some other accents. Mr. Chairman. There is a golden opportunity to shape an economy in which everyone can do meaningful work: work that is well rewarded and you can be proud of. To bring that economy closer, we need to get away from the toolbox with the many instruments and the many abbreviations we find in the budget. I think it is time to ask some fundamental questions. Why is capital getting more and more rewarded and less taxed, while labour is getting less rewarded and more and more taxed? While Quote noted that the Netherlands has never known so many billionaires, almost a million Dutch people live in poverty. That is not economic law, but that is a choice. Why does the value we create together end up with a small group, when the costs, whether insecurity, stress or pollution, are passed on to all of us? There are more jobs in the Netherlands than ever, but why do colleagues with the same work and the same need for security not build up the same security? Can we better invest in the lowest possible public debt for our future or in the people doing such important work for all of us: the teacher, the cop and the nurse? Too much significant work is not rewarded and too many opportunities for a bright future remain unused. If we do not intervene, the 21st century economy will soon be in danger of knowing the working conditions of the nineteenth century, with the same poignant differences between rich and poor. In our current production model, people are at risk of alienating. They become alienated from the important people in their lives. They become alienated from the work they do and from the fruits of their labor. They become cogs in the production process. The connoisseurs know what I'm talking about, I see. We must ask ourselves now: do we want to be cheaper than the Chinese, do we want to have as little security as the Americans or are we going to be better than both? That choice is clear to the Labour Party. Let us opt for a modern and fair economy and society that gives people freedom by also guaranteeing certainties. This cabinet has the longest number of surpluses since 1954 and the lowest interest charges since 1815. Now let's use that wealth for an economy where everyone has a place. Now we have to choose security and progress. Look at the delivery guys from Deliveroo, those uninsured bikes, or the nurses who have to take over another shift because a colleague is sick. The companies that avoid their responsibilities are now making the most beautiful profits, and the employers who keep to the rules are wrongly lagging behind. Therefore, reward companies that undertake social and green business, entrepreneurs that invest in their staff and do not burn their employees, that provide security to their employees and reflect on the carbon footprint of their company. These are the companies we want in the Netherlands and we must cherish them. Many flex workers, workers with a zero-hour contract and self-employed workers in the new economy are now under-protected. Large groups of workers do not have protection against bad luck such as illness or disability, have insufficient income and do not have the negotiating position to enforce protection. It is therefore time for other choices. Let us make sure that the digital revolution works for everyone, not just for the smart creators of a platform or internet service. Let us ensure that all workers can count on a good pension and protection in case of bad luck. Let us ensure that all workers can invest in education and development, not just the people at the top. Mr. Chairman. I believe that the Minister is of good will, but I do not see enough happening in the area of the labour market. A minimum rate is still not available and may also be too low for real security. An opt-out for the well-earnedzzp'er undermines the solidarity that is needed to keep it affordable for everyone. Meanwhile, we are still waiting for a web module that works and for the Borstlap Committee. In the meantime, I have a suggestion and advice to the Minister: start maintaining! Address employers who abuse bogus self-employed people, ensure that this wild west is addressed on the labour market. Why did Mr Van Kent ask even though Deliveroo and Uber Eats have not yet been dealt with? Why are they still here? These are obviously evildoers. How many companies have been dealt with by the Tax Administration and how many fines have been paid? Your work should allow you to live in the Netherlands. All workers must be able to count on a decent wage. Yet there are more and more working poor and people who do have a job, but cannot afford a house. The income of many young people, self-employed people and platform workers is below what we have agreed as a social minimum. For example, we see that Erik, who has been working at a call center for years and still does not earn more than €10 per hour: working hard for years and only receiving a raise of a few cents, not to mention a pension building. The minimum wage must therefore be raised. I put in a bill to raise the minimum wage by a first step. That's in the Council of State now. Hopefully we can meet this period in the Chamber. I'd like an initial response from the Minister. Many obligations also apply to young adults. When you're 18, you can vote, you can drink alcohol, you can, no you have to pay taxes and you have to take care of it. But the wages of these young adults are significantly lower than those of other adults. That's not fair. All workers aged 18 and over must be entitled to at least the minimum wage. You have to be able to make a living on this wage. It's time for the SP to announce the next step. Is the Minister prepared to request the SER Youth Platform following the previous exploration of the minimum youth wage? They are directly involved, they are themselves involved and I am sure they can give the best advice. Secondly, is the Minister prepared to investigate for himself the costs and possible employment effects and the consequences for training? This is about making the 21 to 18-year-old step. Mr. Chairman. Changing work can bring a lot of benefits: a new challenge...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u129	Finish your sentence first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u130	I'm starting a new topic. Probably it's about youth pay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u131	Together with a number of colleagues, I've made sure that the age up to where you have youth pay went down for two years. I agree with Mr Van Dijk that 18 years is the goal, but I am committed to taking it one step at a time. One step at a time and then a few years to see if things are going well and then another step. That's how we've done it the past few years. That way you can keep the finger on the wrist so we don't get any accidents. That is why we have asked together to evaluate this recent step as soon as possible. Does Mr Van Dijk still believe with me that we should have that first and that we should do it in steps of a year? I would like to keep my finger on the pulse that not many young people lose their jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u132	I am well aware that in the first survey from 23 to 21, employers in particular, said that the CPB also predicted that there would be very large employment effects if we abolished the youth pay for this group. In the meantime, research has been carried out on this subject. The effects appear to be nil. That is probably because it happens in steps and because it applies to everyone. There will be a lot of commentary from the retail sector when we finally implement this, but it can only be done in a number of steps for this type of sector as well. I agree with Mr Van Weyenberg: step-by-step. But since the employment effects were nil from 23 to 21, I expect little problems if we take the next step towards 18 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u133	One step at a time, as I hear Mr Van Dijk say. I like that. That'd be my move, too. The second reason why I am pleased with the request, although I would also like to have more information from the Minister, is that we both do not want young people to drop out of school sooner. That's a fear that also reigns. As far as I am concerned, that is the second touchstone at the pace. Does that also apply to Mr Van Dijk?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u134	Of course. This should not have the effect that people go to fully paid work before they have their degree. That must be taken into account. Mr President, I shall continue. Changing work can produce a lot: a new challenge, new colleagues and perhaps even a better salary. That's not always easy for everyone. Many people in the Netherlands suffer from a competitive clause in their contract. This means that you can't just change jobs in the same sector. You can imagine that certain companies should agree to such a thing, for example for sales functions, if they do not want customers to be included. That's just what the interrupting debate was about. For a résumé mechanic or a mechanic, I can't imagine. That is improper use of the competitive clause. Is the Minister prepared to look into this and at least abolish it for temporary contracts? Does he want to see what he can do with the fixed contracts? It seems to me that 20% of workers would now have a competitive clause in their contract. That's improper use because of the shortage of people. Employers think they're keeping people in by such an obligation. It's not the most normal thing for everyone to go to work in the morning. Think of the mother who raises three children on her own. Think of that family member who takes care of a sick brother. Think of people who have been living with disabilities since a young age. Think of people who, after a long journey through the desert, are almost out of debt. Often these people would love to work. The recognition, satisfaction and social contacts that this brings are invaluable. Nevertheless, finding work and keeping it a very big task. But these people, too, deserve the security of a decent income. They deserve a government that helps them and stands next to them, which assumes trust instead of distrust, which helps them find and keep work and provides a safety net if this fails. Yet we collectively fail in this task. People who need our help the most often find them the least. You may expect the Secretary of State to act and amend the law where necessary. One thing I have to hand to the Secretary of State: she was very energetic. Last week, Secretary of State Van Ark was in the Volkskrant with her solution, as far as we are concerned, exactly the wrong one. It was a miracle cure: a mandatory consideration and a fine if you fail to deliver it. It happens to be exactly that one idea of which laymen, professors and experience experts say it doesn't help people. Why is this system of distrust, fine and punishment necessary according to the VVD? "Because we need to conserve taxpayers' money," that's the answer. Apparently, according to the VVD, this applies only to the welfare recipients and not to politicians. They receive more than one fashionable annual salary in tax money on top of their normal salary. In practice, it has been proven that the consideration does not lead to people finding more work. Can the Secretary of State comment on the conclusion of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau that the mandatory consideration does not ensure that people find work more or faster? Is she going to refer this plan to the trash bin as soon as possible? Second. Is the Secretary of State prepared to ask the Economic and Social Council, which has previously issued an alert on social employment, to draw up a second alert on the state of social employment and the Participation Act? What's helping? Make sure people are really accompanied. Invest in social development companies. Give municipalities the space to approach people with confidence and set a good example by creating sufficient jobs for people who are difficult to get to work as a government. The bitter reality of a million Dutch people is that the month always lasts longer than their income. Every day, children go to school without breakfast and with torn clothes. Every week, children swing at the bus with classmates who go on school trips, while they stay behind because their parents have no money for this. One in nine children grows up in a family with big money worries. One million people live in poverty in a prosperous country, as we say, as the Netherlands. What's prosperous about that? Even a large group of people who work can't make ends meet. Long-term poverty in the Netherlands is even increasing. Great debt and poverty are mutually reinforcing. Anyone who doesn't have enough money for simple things gets into debt quickly. Whoever is in big debt doesn't have much left to live on. As many as 1.5 million households have risky or problematic debts. That's one family on every street. If you're in debt, you're being chased by an average of 14 creditors who can come and impound your fridge every day. That, while you can often do little about it: you've gotten sick, you've gotten divorced, so your income drops or you've lost your job and you're unemployed. The most fundamental reason is that the minimum of existence is too low. For workers, the minimum wage must be increased, for those who cannot work or no longer work, the benefits must be increased. However, it is possible to pursue targeted policies now too. All children should be able to participate, should be able to go on a school trip, join a sports club or take music lessons. For one in nine kids, that's just a dream. That's a waste of talent, generation by generation. I ask the Secretary of State to ensure that the money intended for these children actually ends up there. Mr. Chairman. Time for your family, friends, a night of sports, hanging on the couch or resting from work is extremely important. But we work at home more and more often and we work late. The work e-mails keep coming, even at night. Work and private are getting more and more mixed up. Of course that is a free choice, but all that work also has a shadow side. We see that more and more people are falling out of sickening stress and burn-out. More than 1 million employees experience stress or burnout complaints. In the meantime, burn-out is number one occupational disease in the Netherlands. Yet we continue to do this together, in the care, education, in the office and everywhere. We'll work until we can't do it anymore. This rat race is no longer of this time. We have to deal with this giant sicker. The bill on the right to inaccessibility is almost complete, but of course we are not there yet. Mr. Chairman. Besides more time for fun things in life, spending time with your children is extremely important. The arrival of your child is one of the most beautiful events in your life. Together with your partner, you would like to fully enjoy that. You want to take care of your child the first few weeks together and get used to the new life. Fortunately, this is being extended gradually. That's good news. However, we are concerned that this will only become a right to high incomes. When taking paternity leave, low-income people dive below the minimum standard of living. The choice to spend more time with your child should not depend on your income. Our social security is there for everyone. The caretaker, the gardener and the warehouse worker must also be able to be sure that they see their child growing up from birth. Is the Minister or the Secretary of State willing to explicitly monitor the position of these lower-income young fathers? Mr. Chairman. I'm coming to a closure. It's time for other choices; social choices. We must tackle alienation and division, with a government that is taking the lead, as Social Democrats have been looking forward to for 125 years. Together, we can work for a human economy in which pleasure prevails in our work and what really is of value is better rewarding and sharing honestly. Together, we can embrace innovation, convenience and new jobs while at the same time ensuring that we share prosperity fairly and provide protection for people and the planet. Instead of a rat race to the bottom in protection and taxes, we want real progress for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u135	Thank you, Mr. Gijs van Dijk. I now give the floor to Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u136	Mr. Chairman. What kind of society do we want to be? What kind of labour market do we want? From a helicopter it all seems nice. The purchasing power cards show a plus for all people and the economy is still growing. But if you zoom in further, you'll see that a large group of people live in uncertainty. Can I still make my living on my salary? Do I ever get a permanent contract again, or do I keep hopping from temporary work to temporary work? Do I have room to provide care or volunteer? What does my future look like as azzp'er? Am I ever gonna get back to work with a disability? Mr. Chairman. There is a strange paradox in our economy and in our labour market. Macro looks good, but micro isn't always good. Several groups, already mentioned by several colleagues today, are difficult to cope with. I'd like to highlight some of those groups today. The Christian Union wants to be aware of those people who can't just come along. We want a society with attention; a society that is not just focused on maximum economic growth, labour productivity and return, but a society where there is also room for peace and attention. Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to address the people with disabilities. At the moment, many people with disabilities are still on the sidelines. They have a distance from the labour market, as it is called. But I think it is the other way around and the labour market is remote from these people. The evaluation of the Participation Act is not a lie. We're still far too slow to get these people to work. Despite some points of light, the SCP still sees major structural problems. That's a quote from the SCP report. It states that a lot of work is still needed to be successful in the long term. It really takes a lot more than has happened in recent years. One of the frustrating findings is that current financial incentives lead to municipalities mainly supporting people with a relatively small distance from the labour market to get to work. Of course, that can never be the intention. The group that I particularly care about is the group of people who were on the waiting list for the social employment services at the end of 2014. For that group, the Participation Act did not have a positive effect, while this group of people needs support. Much more work needs to be done on sheltered workplaces for these people. We now see that the number of places for sheltered work lags significantly behind the targets. I ask the Secretary of State if we are going to catch up next year. What opportunities do we have to continue to encourage this? Mr. Chairman. However, we must continue to ensure that we take good care of employers. I recently had contact with an entrepreneur who employs 50 people from the target register. He has a no-risk policy at the UWV for them and always received a decent benefit in the event of an employee's illness. But recently, the UWV demands that the employee first fill out a form digitally, to check whether the employee is really sick, while many of the people we're talking about here are digibeet, or do not have a DigiD, or find it exciting to communicate with such a large instance. This leads to the entrepreneur no longer receiving benefits from the UWV. That is a typical example of this system, which does not fit in with the people who it concerns. What can the Secretary of State do in this particular case? How can we ensure that the provision actually takes care of employers and employees and that more entrepreneurs are enthused to help people with disabilities into work?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u137	About social services. I know that the Christian Union is a constructive party, which would like to think along with good plans. Does Mr Bruins agree with me that the closure of the social employment service was unwise, that this death home is not good because it puts people at home instead of in the social employment service, and that we should therefore look for a new path, namely a new social work facility where these people can go? Do you agree that we should stop that death house?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u138	We must indeed look for a new path. I see a lot of social entrepreneurs and social development companies that are putting people to good work. The number of sheltered workplaces really remains, as I have just said. We need to do much more about this in this country, because people have too little chance. The whole idea behind this big operation is that we want these people to work as much as possible at regular companies, wherever possible. I think that's a nice and good thought and has been. At the same time, I think that the people who went about this at the time did not think enough about the fact that when there is no new influx, you make a kind of death home construction, as Mr Van Dijk calls it. There has been far too little thought about how you deal with it exactly. This really requires a new approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u139	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u140	Mr. Chairman. Many young people who come from special secondary education or practical education are at home. Sometimes they have some work to do, but then they easily get out of the picture. Apart from social costs, it is, of course, particularly disheartening for these young people themselves if they are left to their own devices. Last year, the Christian Union provided a financial stimulus to help young people from the US and the pro to work. I would like these funds to be available by 2020. That is why I have today tabled an amendment to the Autumn Note to make 8.5 million available for the labour market regions, which will allow them to guide young people to work from home and practical education. With this money, beautiful things happen. This will give teachers in practical education the opportunity to act as a job coach and to guide young people. Teaching places are also arranged. Mr. Chairman. This actually affects the second group I want to highlight today: professionals. I am talking about people who learn a profession at school or in practice and are of great value to our country. It is often lacking in appreciation for these people, while they bear to a large extent the earning power of the Netherlands. We need more young people who really learn a profession they can be proud of, and we need employers who give these young people a place and guide them. To draw attention to the importance of craftsmanship, I recently presented the Action Plan on craftsmanship, which I am now showing. In 2016 I already wrote an action plan called The Golden Hands of The Netherlands. In my new action plan, I take stock of what has been done and what does this government do? I would also like to make new proposals to strengthen and value technical craftsmanship and boost the knowledge sector. I would like to give a copy of the action plan to both ministers, a nicely bound copy. And all the colleagues in this room get one with a staple through it. Yes, there must be a difference, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u141	I assume there is no objection to this document being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u142	I presented this action plan in the context of the OCW budget, I also presented it to the EZ budget, and I now present it to the SZB budget. I believe that these three ministries are needed to give a real lasting push to craftsmanship, so that we can learn to appreciate that again in our country. Mr. Chairman. A concrete point in this action plan is: 18 years of learning rights for all, 18 years of entitlement to funded education for all. This requires a substantial investment at the moment, but in the long term this money will yield, thus showing calculations. But then divisions between ministries will have to be swept away. Mr. Chairman. Then let's talk briefly about migrant workers. Mr Jasper van Dijk mentioned this too. Almost daily news of exploitation, poor working conditions and miserable housing appears in the news. Labour migration has simply become a perverse earning model for employers and temporary employment agencies that are not of good will. The current state of affairs is not good for migrant workers, it is not good for our society and it is not good for the countries of origin. Large parts of Eastern Europe, as it is called, are facing a demographic winter. The ideal of the single European market is under pressure because of large-scale labour migration, because young people are moving away instead of using their talents in their home countries. We now see that the holes in Poland, for example, are filled by workers from Ukraine. Of course, that's not what we all meant in Europe. Mr Van Dijk and I will come forward with an own-initiative paper on this matter in the very near future. I have a specific question for the Minister. Last year I asked for a motion to investigate the cost advantages for employers in the construction, agricultural and transport sectors in the use of migrant workers in relation to the use of Dutch workers, and what could be done about them. What's going on with the investigation? Mr. Chairman. Over the past year, I have talked to a lot of young people in the framework of Coalition-Y. In our country young people have many opportunities, but the pressure is also very high. They have to study quickly to keep their student loan a bit manageable, and in the meantime they have to build an extensive CV and go from temporary contract to temporary contract. What about a place? Try and find it again. We see many graduate young people hopping from work experience to work experience, where they often perform the same work at a fee as their immediate colleague who does have a contract of employment and who deserves at least the statutory minimum wage. Students who have already completed hundreds of hours of internship are still sometimes dependent on a work experience place. I ask the Minister what he thinks of this construction. What does he think is the definition of a work experience place? Is this even fair? Does the Minister share the view that work experience spots are often not used for what they are meant to be? Mr. Chairman. Another question to the Minister is about pensions. I understand that the prevention of discounts is necessary to create peace in order to work out a pension agreement, but how is the Minister going to explain to young people that it is still attractive for them to participate in this pension scheme at all? Build a bonus: does that make any difference? Isn't the postponement of discounts also at the expense of future generations? I'd like a reflection from the Minister on this. I have also previously tabled a broad-based motion to involve young people in the elaboration of the pension agreement. Can the Minister ensure that other young people or youth representatives come to the table? At Coalition-Y we work together with over 30 youth organisations. I am therefore happy to make a number of suggestions to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u143	When I came forward, it was not at all about pensions, so I will not go into that argument of the Christian Union. We think that is fundamentally different. I want to ask the Christian Union about something else. Because they have an eye for craftsmanship and for people, and I think they look at the qualities of people and also have confidence in people, I would like to hear from the Christian Union how they look at the muscle language of the VVD about the consideration. What is the Christian Union's opinion on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u144	I read it in the paper, too. I admit that the word "compromise" is now quite loaded. It's become a loaded word for a week. For the Christian Union, assistance must be a strong safety net and people who need it will get it. I have also read that the letter with which the Secretary of State came is based on the Raemakers motion. The Raemakers motion makes it very clear that an appropriate offer must be made, which is not without obligation. That motion also states that you can study, accept debt relief or do an internship or volunteering. I even read in the motion that special attention should be paid to single parents with young children, so that that is also possible. The word "counterperformance" sometimes sounds a little frightening to people, but as I read the motion, the customization lies with the municipalities and it must remain possible to live your life and care for your children, even though it is all meant to be active, on the way to a better future. And that's what we want to help people in welfare.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u145	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u146	Finally, Mr President. There are children living in poverty in the Netherlands. Mr Gijs van Dijk also mentioned this. Actually, I think that's just outrageous. It can't be. Fortunately, however, money has become available under the previous government to combat child poverty, the so-called Klijnsmaalten. Much good happens with these resources, but it is still partly unclear what this money is being spent on and whether it actually reaches the target group. That's what worries me. That's what municipalities have to answer for better. As far as I am concerned, we should also encourage the work of the Youth Education Fund. They know how to reach children effectively through primary schools. I'm considering tabling a motion on this, along with the PvdA. Mr. Chairman. Finally, a question about the BES islands. The cabinet is taking measures to combat poverty there. Can the Secretary of State state state what progress has been made on the measures to increase benefits and reduce costs? Mr. Chairman. There are a lot of groups in society, for example, I have visited them, and they all deserve our attention. We want to be a social country with each other. We're a strong country. That means you can protect vulnerable groups. Let us ensure that no one is overlooked and that no one has to stand in the cold, but that we create a society where there is attention for everyone and where we give everyone the space to participate fully. Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u147	Thank you, Mr. Bruins. Mr. De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u148	Interesting final sentences from Mr Bruins of the Christian Union! We have to take care of everyone and everyone has a place. After those last sentences I am curious when the Netherlands is full, because we can't take care of everyone as far as the PVV is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u149	We are a strong country and the Christian Union wants us to be a strong country so that we can take care of vulnerable people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u150	That is not an answer to my question, because everything is a limit. There's a limit on everything, and as far as we're concerned, it has to be closed. There's a limit to what you can take care of others, isn't there? If you have a family with, for example, three or four children, if you're at home with six, maybe you can take one person, a foster child, extra and bring a pot of food to the neighbors twice a week. In addition, you pay taxes and on Sunday you throw something in the collection bag. Also, someone's gonna come to the door and give you something. But at some point, you're out of money. At some point, you're out of weight.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u151	And the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u152	I would like to know about the Christian Union when the capacity for the Dutch household is exhausted in order to be able to take care of others.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u153	I am not a spokesman for Foreign Affairs, but the Christian Union stands for a strict but just immigration policy and good surveillance of Europe's external borders. That doesn't work well enough. We need to do much harder, because we are not satisfied with that at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u154	Not a question anymore, but a conclusion. I tried to ask a question twice. That question was clear, I think, but the Christian Union does not come to an answer. She just doesn't come to an answer. That means they're very beautiful, noble words. They correspond exactly to what I have meant in my own contribution. All parties here... I am now picking out the Christian Union, because it fits so nicely in contrast to what we think. I'm taking the Christian Union out for a while, because this is exactly what I'm talking about. We can't take care of everyone, the whole world. First, bring up the entire cabinet and as a supporting group for this cabinet also the Christian Union for the Dutch. Make sure they live safely here in the Netherlands instead of bringing everyone in, pampering and giving priority to social housing, so that the Dutch can no longer wear it. It's ending. It stops!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u155	Anyone who flees to the Netherlands in distress is welcome here. Anyone who doesn't belong here should be sent back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u156	Thank you, Mr. Bruins. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Brenn on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u157	Mr. Chairman. In politics, justice must be the guiding principle. The government must respect honesty for all its citizens. That is the measure 50PLUS uses to assess policy. Justice in public opinion, politics and policies also does not require stigmatisation and exclusion of groups. 50PLUS is annoying by the direction in which the ageing debate is developing. Older people are mainly put away as superfluous, as a burden, as a cost and as an obstacle to social dynamism, growth and prosperity. "Old is wrong" is the basic attitude. A wholesome road! Older people and young people need each other very much. The social potential of longer healthy elderly people should be exploited. I think that is also the case. Pensioners are the largest flexible skin in the Netherlands. Grandpas and grandma's babysitting. The soccer club will be able to do it. In short, young and old use each other and the elderly should not be written off prematurely. This way society will remain sustainable and liveable. In this way, we can continue to offer the weak, young and old, the protection they need. Does the Minister agree with us that we should not only see ageing as a burden, but also as an opportunity? 50PLUS wants to put people at the centre of this budget process. That's why I'm going to introduce the Minister and the Secretary of State to some of the elderly of flesh and blood today. They're not in the bleachers. They're not looking for publicity. If the rulers respond tomorrow, they will sit in front of the pipe and see if they can expect anything from this cabinet or that it will remain with good promises. 'Cause people don't fall for that anymore. The wallet doesn't lie. Mr. Chairman. We'll start with Wil. Wil worked his whole life. One day a week he worked for the promise of a solid prosperity-proof old age. He has contributed faithfully to his pension fund and has always worked as a construction worker, but hasn't been in good health for 60 years. His back and knees were up before that and he got into the WAO. Meanwhile he has AOW and a pension of less than €400 per month. That pension has not been indexed for 11 years. Wil's neighbor hasn't saved any supplementary pension at all, but gets €400 in care allowance and rent allowance. The neighbor with €400 in surcharges on top of his AOW is neatly indexed, but doesn't want to spend eleven years with his self-savoured pension. And pensions up to €400 per month are not uncommon in the Netherlands, but have a kind of hate-love relationship with the surcharges. It is only a question of whether the person who works and saves hard for a supplementary pension will, under the line, have more left than the person who did not. Is that fair? Is that fair, I ask the Minister. This kind of injustice is painful after 11 years of not indexing, and as a cabinet you can't boast that you will ensure a balanced distribution of purchasing power for pensioners if you've been avoiding only people with AOW and surcharges, but pensioners with an equally large supplementary income, but then consisting of pensions, put on the pain bank of risk-free interest for years and left there? Surely, as a cabinet, you cannot claim to ensure a balanced purchasing power development for pensioners if, year after year and also next year, you let the purchasing power gap with workers get a little bigger again? Is that fair? Is that fair? I'd like a response. The indexing of the AOW benefit in recent years is something to be proud of, but with that you also tell less than half of the purchasing power story. Because even though the AOW is neatly indexed, it makes you barely less vulnerable as a retired person in the Netherlands. Before you know it, that advantage is gone in the form of lower fees or higher taxes or higher fixed and municipal charges, and especially with the care costs rising with age. I am not even talking about the greatest threat to the purchasing power of pensioners, the pension reductions. That threat is not gone, but is lifted over 2020. And that is of course not very uplifting after eleven years the zero line if you hope for a definitive removal of the threat of the discounts. This uncertainty is just hanging over the market. But I count my blessings, it is a step in the right direction and we will see what happens when pensions are reduced in January 2021 and there is a chance to go to the ballot box in March 2021. With a little imagination you will have a Minister of Social Affairs of 50 PLUS around August and perhaps that is enough for Minister Koolmees to go a step further. VVD, CDA, D66, but also PvdA and GroenLinks still talk about unnecessary and necessary discounts. Only they shifted the zero so that what was needed at first is no longer necessary. But they do everything in their power not to have to pay the calculus rate. But I don't see it happening that next year we'll suddenly get purchasing power cards with Princess Day, including big pension discounts. After all, the good news show of this cabinet, which fights for a solid purchasing power for everyone, will have to go on. Mr. Chairman. People still feel the years of economic prosperity too little in their wallets. It's been mentioned here before. A structurally higher minimum wage will reduce people's dependence on surcharges and additional minimum schemes, which, as we know, also involve many risks and vulnerabilities. Does the Minister share our view that the minimum wage should be raised? Isn't that much more understandable to people than a Christmas tree of supplements and income schemes? Is he gonna stand up for that? 50PLUS wants a higher minimum wage, starting in 2020 with 3% on top of the usual indexing. Depending on the effects, such a step can be taken in a few instances as far as we are concerned. We also wholeheartedly support the proposal by our colleagues from the SP and the PvdA to apply the statutory minimum wage from the age of 18 instead of the lower youth wage now applicable up to the age of 21. After all, 18-year-olds have to pay the same bills as older people, and why shouldn't we just reward equal work? Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, an honest and full wage remains an illusion for too many people. I am certainly thinking of the people with disabilities. During an earlier debate with the Secretary of State, I raised the concerns of the Kanters family, two parents at an age who were concerned about the future of their daughter, who was born with a disability. She has fought hard to work against all expectations, despite the fact that she was 100% rejected. Again and again her contract is terminated after two years. Her last monthly salary of €175.90 led to a reduction in the concession of municipal tax, and the supplement declined because she had income alongside her benefit. Again, a letter came from the Tax Administration that it has to repay €549 to receive too much rent surcharge. The Secretary of State has sent the family a letter at my request. I'd like to thank her for that. That's great, and I really appreciate it. But what the hell is the Kanters buying for this? What does it mean for their daughter's wallet, and how does the Secretary of State make the 50PLUS motion adopted where that work always has to pay? We do not see enough of that in policy, and we are looking forward to her statement, especially with this family in mind. Mr. Chairman. 50PLUS once again wants to support equal pay for men and women. Women in the Netherlands still earn 15% less than men, and femalezzp'ers even 33%. Pending the equal pay initiative proposal, does the cabinet see opportunities to further reduce the pay gap? Mr. Chairman. The increase in the legal minimum wage that we have just proposed is, in our view, a first necessary step, but there is a fundamental need for more. The whole range of minimum facilities and the level of the social minimum have become vulnerable. Many people are threatened with marginalisation. That is not fair and it is not just. It's also socially risky. We believe that the cabinet should carry out an evaluation of the social minimum and the effectiveness and effectiveness of all the minimum regulations. I'd like a response. With one example, I would like to show that this poor social minimum also affects people with an AOW benefit. I'm only gonna tell you one more time. Karel is 80 years old and cannot live independently, but is too healthy for a nursing home. He was a self-employed person and therefore did not build up a pension. Alive from his AOW, he can't get around in the home-care center. Calendar rental costs are €667. Service costs: €75. Daily meals: €8. Then you understand that Karel's gonna get in trouble. Despite all the surcharges and waivers from the municipality, Karel doesn't make ends meet. Again: the municipality already offers customization, and yet it leaves that piece of month when the money is gone. A carefree old age, even if you can no longer live on your own, must everyone be able to reach you in the Netherlands? What's gonna happen to people like Karel? What message do you have for Charles or people in the same position as Charles? They do not benefit from good purchasing power figures in the budget. They'll see that in their wallet every month. 50PLUS believes that the cabinet is too far-fetched for people like Karel, who do not fit in with the average picture, and thus also writes off older people and leaves them to their fate. We can't look at what people have lost. Charles now spends 67% of his income on fixed charges. Is that justified, I ask. Is that fair? Is that fair? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. 18% of the seniors are now avoiding care to save costs. These people just don't come true. 50PLUS aims to highlight the approach to the poverty problem of 90+. Will the Secretary of State pay particular attention to this? It has already been mentioned today, but I also think it is important to consider: what is the Minister going to do about not being able to find elderly people who are entitled to AIO, the income support for people with incomplete AOW? Now almost half of the beneficiaries do not receive the minimum subsistence allowance they are entitled to. The Social Insurance Bank wants to cash out, but can't find these people. The Court of Auditors' report shows that people between 70 and 80 years of age are particularly affected. The people are scattered at the UWV, the Tax Office and the Social Insurance Bank. Looks like this minister is hiding behind the privacy law. Unacceptable, so what is the Minister going to do to solve this poignant problem? We would also like to draw attention to the 'unacceptable poverty among older people with a migration background', the literal text of this cabinet. If the cabinet itself acknowledges this, with these words, what will it do to counter this? The NOOM mentions a number of possibilities to address this problem. In this context, too, we call for attention to be paid to the cost-sharing standard. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. 50 PLUS is disappointed with the final evaluation of the Participation Act. Although many at that time also warned the PvdA Secretary of State, the law has hardly achieved that people who have distanced themselves from the labour market have become more involved and can participate fully. On the contrary, despite the hard and good efforts of many. When will there be a single integrated scheme for the bottom of the labour market? Above all, reopen the social work facility. We support the SP initiatives in this respect. We really need to keep that infrastructure open. Has the Cabinet at least learned that if you want to involve vulnerable people, that is impossible if you are at the same time significantly cutting back on guiding and protecting these people? This is a ruinous road, especially in our welfare state. I'm making a plea for being permanently available to a job coach for all those placed people with disabilities. Can that be promised? Can the Secretary of State make a ruling on that? Mr. Chairman. Fortunately, the elderly in the labour market are doing a little better. Yes, they come to work more often from WW and assistance. But their long over-representation in these facilities remains unabated concern. 53% of those over 45 are long-term unemployed. That's why I want you to meet Robert. He has had the pleasure of getting an intensive job placement at a very expensive commercial agency. The result was that Robert had to send more job applications than usual, four a day; of course the agency had to offer value for his money. Robert has sent over 1,000 application letters, but still no work. I can assure you, that's not good for your confidence. Now Robert is threatening to become a nudge, a non-contributory job seeker. His wife has a part-time job with a modest income. Then you've been working for years, always paying taxes, you want to get back to work, but there's no one you want to hire. That's not because Robert is lazy, but mainly because there are still far too many prejudices among employers. Then you threaten to lose your income when you're 60, because the IOW, the income provision for older unemployed, shifts to 60 years and 4 months. What's the cabinet gonna do for people like Robert? What message does the cabinet have for people like Robert? And what is the cabinet going to do about these unjustly persistent prejudices? I told you, fortunately, people are also able to get to work, but you can see that outplacement means that workers aged 57 years and over are less likely to find a job through this dismissal counseling. So, even in high-class economics, success is falling. Does the Minister agree with 50PLUS that much more is needed to tackle labour market discrimination? 50PLUS has submitted a bill to criminalise very harmful age discrimination. Mr. Chairman. Prevention of older people's unemployment is a top priority. The generation pact is important in this respect. The knife cuts both sides: sustainable employability of older workers combined with rejuvenation of the organisation. Is the generation pact now sufficiently rooted in all sectors? How's that going? Does the Minister see the possibility of making the generation pact more accessible to all sectors? After all, isn't the generation pact also a good opportunity for both sides? And does the Minister also see the possibility of giving more opportunities to the vitality pact, so without that direct link between old and young, aimed at the heavy professions? If we do not succeed in getting to work, we must continue to have good income support. Public investment in people's earning capacity is more necessary than ever. We do not have that full conviction and the corresponding actions in the cabinet. Investment in people, in the labour market, in everyone, young, old, people with disabilities and investment in a lifetime are urgently needed. The government must not only be a guiding force, but also a leading force. Since 2010, more than 1 billion savings have been made on resources for reintegration into employment. There is only a budget to support one in three job seekers. If the cabinet is really serious about getting people to work, then get a bigger budget. Then link the budget directly to the size of the target group and the task that municipalities have. I would therefore like to have a reaction from the cabinet to the VNG's plea. We ask the Cabinet: ensure that learning rights are developed structurally and transcend the current patchwork of incoherent subsidy measures. 50PLUS proposes, with the Council of State, the inclusion of a structural provision for learning rights as an important theme for the future investment fund. Ensure more fiscal space for education and development through the social education account as required by the CNV. Is the cabinet prepared to do so? The increased attention for the middle groups that are more difficult to make ends meet, finds 50PLUS. But we must not lose sight of the fact that the Rutte III cabinet had and has the primary ambition to help those who remain behind in society and to offer prospects. As has already been said, this can be achieved through a higher minimum wage and a strong social minimum, but also through ambitious policies on poverty and debt. Think of the people in debt: 2.5 million low-skilled and low-income people and insecure jobs. A recession will hit this group first and hardest, so it's high time we started helping them. In this light I want to perform Koos. The Minister knows Koos. He met him at a meeting in which 50PLUS handed over a booklet with people who have a hard time in the Netherlands. Koos Vervoort told his story about his childhood, how it came that he was low-lettered, how he had to fight from where he was to where he is now and that the world opened to him when he could read. He's had to go a long way. He wrote a book, from low-school to writer; I can recommend it to the minister. A beautiful and special person. However, the many work he does as ambassador for the Read & Write Foundation will only pay a volunteer fee of €50 per month. Koos, who does a lot of good work, he reads letters from the government and adapts them, so low-lettered ones who also understand... still doesn't have a permanent job. And as he approaches the 60, that long-cherished desire seems to be getting further and further away. Would the Minister like to contact Koos again? Can the minister mean anything to Koos and people like him? 50PLUS is deeply concerned about the growing number of disadvantaged people in poverty and debt, because poverty does not belong in a prosperous country like the Netherlands. Poverty divides society. In 2017, 1 million people lived in poverty. The problem of working poor is increasing, the use of food banks is growing, 38% of all people are struggling to make ends meet, and one in five households has risky or problematic debts. What is the answer of the cabinet to this? Where is the bill for the bounty-free footage for people in debt? Does the Secretary of State agree with us that further postponement of this important measure is unacceptable, after all, we have been working on this for some time now? Finally, Mr President. We find it completely incomprehensible and bizarre that a government that borrows almost free money itself and charges pension funds with an ultra-low risk-free interest rate of almost 0%, at the same time speaks right that lenders can charge up to 14% interest on loans and thus open the door to insoluble debts for financially vulnerable people. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u158	Thank you very much, Mrs Van Brenn. I now give the floor to Mr Stoffer on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u159	Mr. Chairman. Like every man, every country also has its weak points and its strong points. The positive thing about the Dutch mentality is hard work and keep going. This is also referred to by some as a "calvinistic labour ethic." Of course there is also room to stand still and celebrate beautiful moments. I am thinking, for example, of the continuous extension of paternity leave at birth. However, when it comes to time for mourning, our country is less developed. Sometimes it looks like we're pushing loss, when sooner or later everyone's gonna have to deal with it. Workers should move on to the order of the day. Processing loss is obviously something for leisure time and that is not healthy. It leads to mental problems and also to absenteeism. So even economically, it's just not wise. That is why GroenLinks and the SGP are calling for more room for workers to mourn, including through the training of workers. I would very much like to see, together with my colleague Smeulders, that the cabinet would embrace the manifesto of better mourning that we have made. To do that, you have to have it, of course. So through the chairman, I'd like to hand it over to the minister. Underneath it I have done a lot of copies that are intended for colleagues. I hear someone talking about a staple. It's just one A4's. I've always learned that a minister can't handle more than one little A4 but then I was a civil servant. As a politician, I don't always stick to that, but I do now. All right, I'll move on. I've got a few things to say about employees with an hour limit. Recently, the House of Representatives has accepted the bill on a fairer Wajong and I now call for attention to be paid to the alignment between the Wajong and the Participation Act, because in the future employees with hours limitation may be more dependent on the release of income from the Participation Act. This law provides for 15% of income per month and up to €135 to be released. That is beautiful in itself, but these standards seem to me to be chosen at random. I have looked into it again, but nowhere in Parliament's history have I come across any support. I have a simple question for the Secretary of State. I've put it before in the legal process, but I'm going to do it again: does she want to investigate what appropriate, objective standards are for this release? They do not necessarily need to change, but I would like to know, precisely in the light of the changes we have made to the Wajong. Mr. Chairman. The debts of people in the country have been passed many times. The SGP also calls for attention to be paid to people in debt. The law rightly offers the opportunity to get a clean slate again, but with this possibility going downhill, we have to establish. The number of people in debt is still high, but the inflow into debt restructuring was lowest in August of this year since 1999. Directors step out on a large scale and the training has not started this year either. How does the Secretary of State prevent the complete balding of the structure, which in any case is indispensable, from continuing? Apart from the discussion on the role of municipalities, the SGP calls for rapid intervention to improve access to debt restructuring. My question is, therefore, why the government is not working on the Council's proposals for justice, inter alia, to shorten the time limit for access from five to two years. Mr. Chairman. I also have something about the surcharges. It is quite clear that the system of surcharges is cracking in its joints and calling for revision. In 2016, no less than 1 billion euros of surcharges had to be recovered. Recovery is generally fierce, especially for low-income families. It also very often leads to even more debts. That's how the system sustains itself. In the study on surcharges, the option is to pay part of the provisional supplement directly and the other part afterwards, when the annual income is finally fixed. This leads to more certainty on the one hand and less recovery on the other. What is the Minister's opinion on this proposal and would he like to consider this option seriously? Mr. Chairman. At present, compulsory disability insurance for self-employed persons without staff is being developed. But is a good opt-out option also involved in this development, and how does that happen? What does the Minister think of a link between the self-employed deduction and compulsory disability insurance? Zzp'ers can then get an advantage through the self-employed deduction if they can prove that they themselves have made a provision against incapacity for work. Forzzp'ers it becomes attractive to ensure themselves. And the deduction is used for what it's meant for. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to something that I have already called attention to twice today by interrupting: the one-earner. I don't care about him. There is still a gaping tax gap between one and two earners. I have found that this gap may be even greater than it seems in the budget. Indeed, the SGP doubts whether the chart on the tax burden for one- and two-earners is a correct representation of reality. Is it true, for example, that a household where a partner has a very low income of, for example, €500 is seen as a two-earner? In practice, that is, in my opinion, just a hidden one-earner. Like the single earner, this family is financially hard hit by the current tax rules. What is the result of this broad definition of two-earning people on the average tax burden? Mr. Chairman. My last topic is asbestos. I have already briefly drawn attention to this, but fortunately I still have some space and time, so I'm going to take it by the head anyway. The SGP is concerned about the functioning of the asbestos system. I'm certainly not the only one in that. Four adopted motions call for more room for innovation and safer methods of clean-up, which can significantly reduce the cost of clean-up. The independent TNO wrote some reports with support. Why does the Secretary of State choose mistrust instead of action? The Ascert Foundation will have an overall role to play in the elaboration and application of regulations, especially if the Ministry wishes to withdraw further on 1 January in connection with European certification rules. Ascert Foundation seems to be intertwined with market players who make money with, among other things, the inventory work. I don't think that's healthy. Indeed, these parties have no interest in cheaper methods of reorganisation. I ask the Secretary of State how she provides the necessary counterpower. All the way to the end. I wonder where the promised space for the use of work boxes on cranes remains. I'll leave it at that, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u160	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. I now give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u161	Thank you, Mr President. Before I start my contribution I must say that I was rather annoying about what happened before lunch break. I don't even mind that it happens to me, because I'm used to being told regularly that I have to catch the plane, that I have to fuck off and that kind of terminology. I get it thrown to my head every day, but it also happens in the schoolyard. It also happens in the workplace. It also happens in society. Mr. Chairman. You sometimes say, quite rightly, that people in the country follow the debate, that they watch this and that they sometimes send you e-mails. I'm getting those e-mails, too. I'd like to read one to you. "Dear Lord Kuzu. I'm following the debate, even though I'm incurably ill. Now the level has fallen very low at the PVV. Take Mr. De Jong's statement that you must leave and be on the plane. What's that supposed to mean? I get annoyed by the PVV every week. Always "foreigners." A disgusting word. Everyone's human. I don't think the word "foreigners" should even exist. I'm not even gonna take it in the mouth. It's always about "islamization," "Islam" and "the foreigners." So disgusting from the PVV. I want to give you a heartbeat." Then there are a number of personal compliments in my direction that I would like to spare you, but what he says next is very important. "To me, everyone is human, regardless of colour, race or origin. It doesn't matter, and that shouldn't matter to anyone. I wish you all the best. Keep fighting the PVV. The PVV will never get my vote, even if it's the last party on earth. With warm and supportive greetings." And then the PVV will probably think that this message is from Achmed of Fatima, but, Mr. De Graaf, it's from Johannes van Zundert. Mr. Chairman. I think we should stop calling each other rotten fish, judging people by origin, putting them as "long arm" or representative of any regime. I think we should judge people on the basis of what they're doing here. I'm a representative in the Netherlands. I'm an elected parliamentarians. I will always stand up for the interests of people who voted for me and for the interests of the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. Having said that, I would like to mention a number of The Hague political wisdoms: the municipalities are close to the citizen and therefore know much better what the citizen needs, the government must only do what the market cannot, and a "real" job is much better than a subsidised job. Those are a number of The Hague political tile wisdoms. They are very easy to say and sound sympathetic, but in practice, The Hague tile wisdom is sometimes a recipe for failure. Mr. Chairman. That is why we at DENK say: away with the wishful thinking in The Hague. Instead, let's think about people. Because under that wishful thinking in The Hague, the Netherlands suffers every day. A typical example of this disastrous wishful thinking was seen in 2012, when two politicians decided to put together a government agreement within two months. It was Mark Rutte and Diederik Samsom, a somewhat superficial employee manager with no vision and a dreamy know-it-all with a lot of vision. It wasn't a logical combination, but on one principle they could immediately find each other: getting long, fast at home. Within two months, with the help of a game of quartet, they made a long list of disastrous proposals. You know them. The disruption of home care. The disruption of youth care. The disruption of care for the elderly. The disruption of the rest of the care. The towering personal risk in the care. The antisocial loan system. The abolition of supplements for chronically ill. The demolition of nursing homes. The accelerated increase in retirement age to 67 years. The zero line for education wages in 2013. The undressing of social security. The abolition of the third year of WW. The abolition of the basic grant. It is about the protection of youth care, the social workshops and the assistance. And so on and so on. Mr. Chairman. The central credo of the previous cabinet was the "participant society," a management term that saw light at Princess Day 2013 as a kind of alternative to the welfare state. In practice, it was nothing more and nothing less than a term for ordinary cleaning and austerity. This was packed in the message that people need to take more care of each other and more of themselves and that the government should therefore do less. Only a year later the Participation Act was dealt with in the Chamber. The result: social workshops and the Wajong went to the municipality because of the tile wisdom "the municipality is closer to the citizen and can organise it better." And while we're at it, they said, let's merge the Work and Assistance Act with the Wajong and the WSW. The wisdom of the tile: "Synergies arise by merging these three flows of money and laying them down with the municipalities." Then the everyday reality. Municipalities have to do it with less budget. There are considerable cuts and there is no compensation from the Empire, because there is no budget. Then you know how it ends. Mr. Chairman. Two weeks ago, two new reports were published on the Rutte and Asscher disasters. One was about the now unacceptable low level of youth care and one, of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau, was about the results of the Participation Act. The conclusions of that report are not easy. For none of the three groups in the law, the situation has improved: not for the young disabled, not for the welfare recipients and not for the people who depended on social services. 60% of people with disabilities do not seem to be able to find regular jobs. There was a job agreement that industry would create 125,000 jobs for this group. That didn't work. Nothing has come of this, but nothing has come of it at all. 110,000 people are just sitting at home. For regular welfare recipients, the probability of a job increased from only 7% to 8%. Hip, hip, hooray! The Wajangers aren't anymore, they're gonna make less money. And often only in temporary jobs. The Participation Act doesn't work. You can draw that conclusion now. The Secretary of State says it in a slightly more neat way: it is not a pleasant sight. There are points of light, but also a number of major problems. The SCP rightly puts its finger on sore spots. Things aren't going well yet. It's tragic, especially for people on the waiting list. Mr. Chairman. This is a clear analysis of the cabinet, since times, and a special moment of honesty. A sharp analysis is silver, an effective plan to do something good with this is gold. So I want to know from the Secretary of State what she's gonna do with this. Is the Secretary of State prepared to reopen the social workshops for new groups of people with disabilities? Is it prepared to provide guidance for people with disabilities and guidance for young people with disabilities in regional partnerships? Is it prepared to give the government a greater role again, for example by establishing national performance indicators so that local authorities have an additional incentive to work with them? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. The Secretary of State came up with something quite soon after the report of the Social Cultural Planning Bureau: a new interpretation of the consideration in the Participation Act. As far as we're concerned, that's a diversion. Even if that consideration was a dead letter in one municipality and a strict obligation in another municipality, the application of the law differs in severity or perhaps per municipality, the end result is about the same. That end result is bad. I can assure you that at the next evaluation the first conclusion will be that the mandatory compensation does not work. Or in other words: The Hague's political wishful thinking and no human thinking. Apparently, the Secretary of State doesn't like the fact that every municipality has its own policy if it doesn't like it. Because if it is to be appreciated, for example, a municipality does not spend money on poverty funds, research is carried out for two years and no initiatives are taken to impose anything. I ask the Secretary of State why this double measure is being applied. Why, in one case, do we deal differently with municipal autonomy than in the other case? Why does the Secretary of State not want to set a number of national minimum requirements as regards poverty policy and anchor them in the law? Mr. Chairman. I don't just want to be negative. There are also a number of points of light in the proposals of the Secretary of State. For example, accepting debt relief could also count as a consideration. But on the other hand, sanctions on non-compliance with language requirements remain. The group of DENK rejects it, because it is pure symbolic politics and can bring people even deeper into misery. Sanctions, i.e. fines, for people in welfare, who already have little money, are helping people out of the rain. When it comes to volunteering, the DENK Group has the necessary reserves. Activating people is good. Bringing them closer to a job is of course good. But if it becomes free labour for overly smart entrepreneurs, it only leads to displacement into the labour market, and that is not good. Finding a balance in this is complicated, I admit. That is why I would like to hear from the Secretary of State how it is going to prevent the compensation from eventually leading to labour market displacement and increased unemployment. Can it consider including a displacement test in the law, as proposed by the SP in the past? Mr. Chairman. Another point: poverty in the Netherlands. There are still 400,000 children living in poverty, there are still 900,000 households living in poverty, the number of homeless has doubled over the last ten years and there are still 1.5 million households with late payments. That is why we should tackle the root causes of poverty. By which I mean, of course, that we ensure that people have a higher disposable income through a higher statutory minimum wage and a higher social minimum. Political parties for me have also made a point about this. The best solution to poverty is simple: in addition to the existing rhetoric as "work is the fastest solution to poverty," higher disposable income is also important, so that people have more resources to support their livelihoods. I look at the legal minimum wage and how it has increased in a number of countries in Europe. I see that even in countries such as Poland, Bulgaria and Romania, the statutory minimum wage has been substantially increased by 40%, 65% and 140% respectively. I'm not saying let's raise the statutory minimum wage by 140%. But I don't need to hear the answer "can't." It's possible. It's a political choice. That is the income side of the household booklet for many families, in which people hardly see any improvement. On the other hand, we see the expenditure side and then we quickly get to the subject of "buy power." The purchasing power predictions for the past few years have always proved to be nothing more than empty promises. Each time the actual purchasing power is lower than during the jubilee budget on Princess Day. In the meantime, inflation is rising rapidly throughout the country. Everywhere, companies seem to be raising their prices. Therefore, increase the minimum wage and reverse the increase on VAT. Because this VAT increase is a free pass for entrepreneurs and for companies to raise their prices. The root cause of tackling poverty is an important task for the government, but rather than being part of the solution, the government is often part of the problem. Look at the batter-free foot. A few weeks ago, the bailiffs came up with a plea for better compliance with the batter-free foot. I welcome the fact that even the bailiffs, who haven't taken it so closely for years with respect to the attachment-free foot, have made a plea for an initiative that they have also come up with in the past, namely the debtor. I would like to ask the Secretary of State if she can ensure that public authorities will also respect the unwounded footsteps. The CJIB and the Tax Administration are organisations that often create new debts. Mr. Chairman. I come to another point, namely the second sick year of the payment obligation. This payment obligation is a burden on small entrepreneurs in particular. In an SME with fewer than 25 employees, it is difficult to cope with a person becoming ill for a longer period of time. The government agreement promised that the second sick year of the pay-by-payment obligation in the event of sickness would fall to 25 employees for SMEs. Unfortunately, this file has been derailed. Instead of a new disease law for the second year of illness, private care policies would now be introduced. The SME entrepreneurs in construction have indicated that neither the coverage nor the premiums are known. I ask the Secretary of State if she can clarify that. Or is it the Minister? It's for the Minister. Can the Minister clarify this? Why doesn't the government stick to its own coalition agreement, I wonder? Why hasn't a clear collective regime been chosen, such as the old Disease Act? Why does the cabinet now come up with opaque, expensive, commercial policies that hardly anyone is expected to use? I'd like a response from the Minister. On this point, I will certainly come up with a motion to at least comply with our own coalition agreement. Mr President, the Labour Market Act is in balance. We all know by now that the Work and Security Act, announced by Asscher during the Rutte II cabinet with a lot of bombs, turned out to be a total failure. With this headache file Rutte III made a start with his reign. Rutte III would restore the permanent contract and offer Dutch people more security. But none of that is true. Last year, DENK warned Minister Koolmees not to become the new Asscher. We made the necessary suggestions, but the Minister did not do very much with them. That does disappoint us. While this cabinet promised to make permanent work more attractive, the cabinet made it easier to resign and extended the probationary period, leaving people in uncertainty and requiring people to work longer with temporary contracts. In short, in a few years' time, and that is my second prediction, we are standing here to see that this law has not produced what we had expected of it and even had a counterproductive effect, so that the Dutch have become even more insecure on the labour market. As far as DENK is concerned, the negative aspects of this law go into the trash as soon as possible. I see that there is also good news, namely the Secretary of State's bill on discrimination in the labour market. There is a real need to take action on this. Mr Van Weyenberg of D66 has made a plea for this, and I fully agree with that. Discrimination by employers is an abomination in the eyes of DENK. It is terrible that people do not get the opportunities that others do get just on the basis of their last name or ethnic background. Equality before the law should not be a dead letter, but a living standard for everyday life. It is also a waste of talent and scarce resources. Discrimination is indeed, as the Prime Minister has admitted, the dumbest, but also the dumbest thing you can do. Employers who discriminate can get a fine of €4,500 if they discriminate, for example when selecting staff. These fines may also be made public. The DENK Group welcomes this, but the proof of the pudding is in the eating. In what way will the Court be informed of the functioning of this law in practice? €4,500 is for large companies of course only a small amount and has no deterrent effect. For large companies, the fines should be much higher. I would like to comment on this point. Mr President, I see that I have 36 seconds left, but I think I still have a lot of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u162	That's right, you can just keep talking. At the end, it will be corrected.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u163	I'm gonna go on cheerful, 'cause I'm about halfway there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u164	Yeah, I think you've got plenty of minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u165	Minister Koolmees, we're going to get the part about pensions, but first we're going to get the Secretary of State. She talked about the mystery guests of the Inspection SZW. We have often asked for this in the past, but here too'see first, then believe'. With mystery guests, the effect should be visible very quickly. Can the Court be informed of its effects as soon as possible after the entry into force of this law? We also wonder whether the SZW Inspection will report findings and abuses to the Human Rights College and to the Public Prosecutor's Office when there is a criminal offence. If not, why not? How does cooperation with the Human Rights College and the Public Prosecutor's Office proceed? A disappointing report on tackling labour market discrimination was published today. The motion requiring notification of discriminatory requests from a temporary agency shall not be carried out as requested by the Chamber. Mr Van Weyenberg indicated that he would conclave on this with the Secretary of State in search of a workable solution. I would like to join with you wholeheartedly. Mr. Chairman. I'm coming to the pensions. Last week, Minister Koolmees decided: in 2020, there will be no pension reductions for most pension funds, as long as there is a coverage rate of 90% or more. The advice of DNB is fortunately in the wind. Over 7 million pensioners and working participants can breathe relievedly for the time being. Why have they been kept in suspense for months? Why was it so hard? Does the Minister think it is his job to cause social unrest? And why does the Minister first insist on the need for discounts for months because otherwise there will be no money left for young people and then put the discounts on the long term in the afternoon? The best victories are often booked in The Hague on a late afternoon. Why wait and push for a long time and then make a decision on an afternoon after? This does not help the credibility of politics. There is still a risk of pension reductions for a smaller group of around 600,000 people. They are among pension funds with a coverage below 90% and are still at risk of being the victims of hysterical interest rates. In the Netherlands alone, the calculation rate for pensions is so extremely low that it seems on paper that funds do not have enough money. In reality, no pension system in the world has as much cash as the Dutch. have EUR 1600 billion and then say with dry eyes that you don't have any money, calculate with an arithmetic rate of less than 1%, while for years an average of 7% returns have been made, it's something. The arithmetic interest rate is a hysterical caution standard, similar to the PFAS discussion. Safety first, says the government. Sometimes that's taken very literally. And that unfortunately has another disruptive effect. Even Dagobert Duck is not such a greedy person as the one who dares say with dry eyes that the pension funds have no money to index. Can the Minister remove the unnecessary uncertainty for this group of 600,000 people and remove the pension rebates? It is not necessary today, during this debate. If the minister likes it better, he can do it in the afternoon. The absurdly low arithmetic rate will eventually prove to be unsustainable. It will certainly be on the run in the coming years; probably even after noon, or at a time when no one expects it. Afternoon, the biggest breakthroughs are reached and not during debates in the Chamber. That's too bad. Mr. Chairman. I have another point on pensions. Two weeks ago, there was a very strange broadcast of Nieuwsuur about pensions that were miscalculated. People got too much or too little pension. They still had to enforce their pension through the judge. If there is anything that causes social unrest, it is that pensions are not properly administered. Most people don't have time and they don't want to keep up with this. They trust the government in this. I would like clarification from the Minister on this. Can the Minister guarantee that everyone will receive exactly the pension he or she has deposited? What action will the Minister take in this regard? Mr. Chairman. I'll be on the AOW. I can see the Minister's eager to answer. You'll have to wait a little longer. Tomorrow you may.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u166	Don't worry about it. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u167	Mr. Chairman. I'll be on the AOW. This was set in 1957, under PvdA Prime Minister Willem Drees. Then the PvdA was not only left in the opposition, but also in the government. Curiously enough, this centre-right cabinet will increase the AOW considerably in 2020. D66'er and socialist Koolmees do this better than Asscher the Social Democrat. I congratulate the Minister for Social Affairs on this. Unfortunately, not everyone can fully share in the increase in the AOW. Why not? Because for the AOW as a rule you must have lived on Dutch soil for 50 years. Unfortunately, people with a migration background cannot always live up to this. They have an AOW hole. Then they depend on income-dependent additions such as the AIO. This regulation sometimes leads to distressing situations. In their old age, people must eat almost all their savings and their homes, and then reach the social minimum and be entitled to this supplementary scheme. This is unbelievable in the prosperous Netherlands in 2019, in which people have worked hard at the minimum level for years. This is extra harsh for people with Surinamese or Antillean backgrounds. They lived in the Dutch Kingdom all these years, but not in the European part of the Netherlands. The years before 1980 are not counted. This has to change. The Netherlands also owes credit to Caribbean Netherlands, the Antilles and Suriname in view of the centuries-long history of slavery. It lasted from the seventeenth century until July 1, 1863. Hundreds of years of exploitation and humiliation have passed, but serious compensation has never come. That is why I am asking whether and how the Minister could achieve this compensation. Giving the missing AOW years could be a first modest step. I am considering a motion on this point. But there's still more in order around the AOW. The 50PLUS colleague also drew attention to this. I'm gonna skip that part. Mr. Chairman. I'm actually getting to my last point. That is that we must go from wishful thinking to human thought. The reality of the Hague drawing board often works out in such a way that it has disastrous effects on society. The Hague plans to keep care affordable make sure that people avoid care and cannot pay their care premium in practice. The Hague's plans for the participatory society mean that more people are on the sidelines than ever before. The Hague's plans on access to education make education less accessible than ever before. I therefore call on this cabinet to leave the Hague reality and to leave the Hague bubble. See what happens in the country and go from wishful thinking to human thought. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u168	Thank you. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u169	Thank you, Mr President. There's something I need to get off my chest first. There's a lot to me, but first of all this. What happened to the power of compassion of this cabinet? With the feeling of compassion for people with a distance from the labour market, for people with the right to allowances, for people dangling on or below the poverty line, for people with pensions and their threatening reductions, for disabled people and for people with welfare benefits? The participatory society has gone crazy, the Participation Act has completely failed. In response to the report of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau, which was devastating and calls for a review of the principles of the Participation Act, the State Secretary intends to require a compelling counter-presentation. A means of coercion and an obligation, whereas the evaluation of the Participation Act clearly shows that this does not contribute to finding work for people in assistance, who often struggle with the complex problem. Mr. Chairman. This announced policy can also be described as a kind of Pavlov reaction of distrust, as five aldermen quoted yesterday in the Dagblad van het Noorden. They write: "It is above all a sign of distrust towards the vulnerable group of people who often do not have it easy and who can use some love, but who, in the eyes of the cabinet, can only get you into action with a binding horse's tool if the consideration is in return." I very much agree with that analysis. These include, for example, people with disabilities, health problems, both physical and mental, or those who are in debt. I'm probably not the only people's representative who's received letters and e-mails from people who are scared shitless. I got a very sad e-mail from someone who's had a lot of bad luck in his life and who's in deep shit. He's lost people he loved and he's had a serious accident, causing him a lot of pain and not working anymore. He's receiving a social security allowance. He thought it might be better to put an end to his life if the Secretary of State continues her harsh plans. How does the Secretary of State feel about that? What does the Secretary of State want to say to people like him? Mr. Chairman. Has it occurred to the Secretary of State at all that you can better motivate vulnerable people with attention, by having a good conversation about their problems and opportunities and by giving them the confidence that they, with intensive guidance from the municipality and the government, can overcome their misery and get their lives back on track instead of immediately, out of distrust, tackling people hard and forcing them to do things that they are most likely unable to do? But really are not able, because the distance from the labour market is too large to be easily bridged. And cut them short on the welfare, with which they were already below the poverty line. No one lives in poverty for fun, I swear. A lot of people in welfare really want to work, but they can't. It would be a credit to the Secretary of State if she were to use the good in man until proven otherwise and if she were to use help instead of punishment. For example, the proposal of 50PLUS: the right to a job coach. That's positive, intensive guidance. I wholeheartedly support that. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. But as the host is, apparently he trusts his guests. If we look at the largest party in this cabinet, the party of the Secretary of State, then it does not give a pass. It is already mentioned that the party leader of the party of participation, of the 'hands-off' and 'keep your own pants up', shamelessly collects watch money because he was Minister for four weeks. €37,000 waiting fees per year, in addition to his remuneration as MP and his additional remuneration as chairman of the political group. And what's the reaction? "I'm entitled to it." Well, that's two and a half times an extra welfare allowance a year. Mr. Chairman. People have lost faith in politics for a long time. This harsh policy for vulnerable people on the one hand is very ugly at odds with filling one's own pockets on the other? May I remind the Cabinet of its exemplary role? Under the VVD regime, many in the Netherlands have been forced tozzp'er, bogus self-employed, employees with temporary contracts, his dismissal arrangements relaxed and social safety nets undressed. It bears witness to world alienation, egocentrism and a lack of compassion. I'd like a response from the rulers. Mr. Chairman. I agree with everything that has been said about the closure of social services. That was a historic mistake. That must be restored. Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State and the Minister should do something about the fact that municipalities create a forest of minimum regulations, while people still live in poverty and no longer see the forest through the trees. There are 700,000 people with problematic debts. Of these, only 200,000 are in the picture of municipalities and debt relief. I call Leeuwarden, for example. There are 63 regulations for minimums, which do not make chocolate. Help must be much more accessible. Do the rulers agree with me? If so, how do they intend to resolve this? I would like to join the questions that have been asked about children living in poverty. No child should grow up in poverty in this prosperous country. That's gotta stop. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. There is also a lot of hidden poverty among the elderly. Think of all the pension problems and the lack of indexation, and of the threat of unnecessary discounts, thanks to the ECB and the interest rate. I would like to join the questions that have already been asked. Mr. Chairman. The General Court's report "Old Age Schemes Dissected" shows that about half of the elderly who are entitled to an AOW supplement misses this supplement and therefore lives below the welfare threshold. How is that to be solved, I ask the Minister. Mr. Chairman. The government encourages people who live on welfare benefits, such as single welfare mothers, to become self-employed and self-employed. The Netherlands is seventh in the EU with over 12%zzp's in 2018. The Netherlands is among the largest growthers in Europe, with a growth rate of 2.5 percentage points. In 2018, there were 1.1 millionzzp'ers. In the first three quarters of this year as many as 132.000 newzzp'ers joined. That is 13% more than in the same period last year. It is very necessary to take care of things properly for these people. One deliberately opts for entrepreneurship. For the other, it's a forced step. Mr. Chairman. More and morezzp'ers are women. Does the Minister agree with me that having regard to the different characteristics and interests should lead to tailor-made work? Among other things, the Dutch Women's Council argues in favour of looking at labour regulations by means of so-called gender glasses. Because the conditions for women are different, the rules really are different for them. Is the Minister aware of this? What does he want to do about it? For example, women choose to combine care and work more often than men. In doing so, they make an important contribution to the participatory society, which is very much at the heart of this cabinet. Mr. Chairman. Employers and trade unions are opposed to this cabinet's plans. According to the social partners, the proposal is so complex that it creates more uncertainty in their implementation problems. It's been mentioned a lot today. The Labor Foundation torched the zzplee... Well, that's a good word! ...zzp plans motivated off. Sorry, Chairman. Among the workers, there is the greatest risk of poverty. In September the Council of State was already the alarm clock about this growing group of working poor. The abbreviation zzp is all too often for self-employed without money. Manyzzp'ers think they're on their own. Municipal minimum regulations are often also available for zzp'ers, but ignorance of these regulations makes sure that zzp'ers do not use them. Is there a campaign to raise awareness, I ask the Minister. As many as two thirds of the municipalities do nothing about debt relief forzzp'ers. The 90 million euros that the cabinet reserved for this is not earmarked, which means that the vast majority goes to private individuals and not to those with money problems. Will the Minister make this right? Mr. Chairman. A basic provision like safety net is missing. Does the Minister feel that there is a basic provision for all workers with the possibility of voluntary insurance depending on the individual situation? Manyzzp'ers oppose the idea of a compulsory pension. They are heading for a huge pension gap, because saving is often not possible. Will the Minister examine how the costs of pension building forzzp's can be simply charged to clients, in the same way as VAT, and can be paid to azzp pension fund? I'd like a response. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u170	Thank you. Mrs. Tielen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u171	Mr President, I believe I have only one interruption, so I am going to try to be brief. I hear from Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen a lot of woe and a lot of misery. Great causal links are also being established between political parties and situations in the country. I hear thezzp group in its entirety, so more than a million people, being pushed away in poverty and dependence. And I have a real problem with that, also because I do not hear Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen making any constructive proposal that we should discuss with her. In fact, I haven't heard or seen her in the debate for most of the day either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u172	And the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u173	The question is therefore whether Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen will share with us a little less and a little more constructive solutions for the people of the country next time she discusses with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u174	I have only heard a request and not a question, but I would still like to respond. I've made a lot of proposals. On the contrary, I have made many proposals to solve the situation ofzzp'ers, who are not only characterised by me but also by the Council of State as working poor. I have made proposals to move from an obligation to set up schemes to a possibility for pension payments through the client. Zzp'ers do not have to pay a lot of money in advance, for which they get little in return. On the contrary, I make a lot of proposals. I propose, for example, that the Minister should look at women who often suffer from different regulations. I think, on the contrary, that I am offering a lot of solutions to which the Minister will be able to respond tomorrow. Unfortunately, I was not present all day in this debate. That is because I am a single-woman group, which unfortunately has more debates today and has to do so all alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u175	I actually want to see a short interrupt. But I'm telling the wrong person right now, because you haven't interrupted at all, Mr. Peters. You'll have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u176	I weigh the story of Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen something else. I like that she has so much pathos and feelings for people who are vulnerable. I can also understand why you, as a single-woman group, cannot sit here all day. But to be honest, I do think you use a lot of harsh words in the direction of the Secretary of State. What I read in the letter, I really do weigh differently. I would like to ask you, Mr President, if you will just nod, to adjust your image a bit tomorrow after the questions have been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u177	I hope that's possible. I am glad that you appreciate that I have a feeling for the working poor and for people in the welfare system, who really cannot do anything about it and are dependent on arrangements that we are making up for them. I am merely appealing to the compassion and compassion of the cabinet not to penalise people who are without their debt in the assistance and who are very keen to work even more by means of compulsory compensation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u178	You made that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u179	That's just really...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u180	You made that clear, Mrs. Van Kooten. Otherwise, you will repeat your speech, and I think everyone has listened to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u181	But I'm gonna listen very carefully tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u182	I read the Secretary of State's letter quite differently from the news I read in the newspaper or on a Facebook page somewhere. And I'd like to do the same for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u183	Good. The answers will come tomorrow and you can say something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u184	I hope it's not too bad tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u185	I greatly appreciate Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen's words about vulnerablezzp'ers;zzp'ers who have few hours or forced to charge a low rate. But there is also a lot of tax-drivenzzp-ship. This cabinet is taking a very nice step by reducing the self-employed deduction slightly and giving it back to the income tax system in order to narrow the gap between employees andzzp'ers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u186	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u187	Do I think that Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen would be on my side if further steps were taken in this direction in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u188	You will find me on your side with all the arrangements that strengthen the position of thezzp'er. We must be careful not to force the self-employed who are concerned with greater independence, and I am not talking about forcedzzp'ers, the false self-employed, but about those who consciously opt for self-employment, rather than being forced into all kinds of regulations that undermine independence. I would very much like thezzp'er not to go below the poverty line and to make a safety net for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-27-tweedekamer-9.u189	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
