ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u1	We will continue with the debate on the state of the financial sector. I now give the floor to the Minister for Finance to answer the questions put this morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to your members for the reflections and questions. There is not exactly one specific, current reason for having this debate here and now, but it is a very large subject, not to say a large, very complex and also multi-headed subject, so I think it is quite right that we should discuss it with each other. I also found it very useful to hear how the various groups look at it, with sometimes great differences but also important similarities in many respects. In full knowledge that I am the last person to deal with the agenda here, I can move around a bit in those who have noticed between the lines that four minutes for this issue may have felt a little tight. Mr. Chairman. I wanted to make some introductory remarks and then answer some general questions, and then say something about diversity and WRR. When I say "diversity," I'm talking about diversity of the banking landscape. Then I will say something about fintech and finally about climate. It's true. Ten years ago, Lehman Brothers fell.A shock went through the financial sector that we feel ten years later, because there are few topics on which you have another look-back debate ten years later. Most of the time, you've moved on to the order of the day. That is not the case here. That rightly raises the question that many Members have asked, what we have learned and whether we can cope with the next crisis. Mr Ronnes asked: is it business as usual? Mr. Chairman. I think it's fair to say that it's a mixed picture we're looking at together. On the one hand, you must recognise that a great deal has happened in the banking sector, not least by politics, also by European politics, and not least by the previous and previous cabinet. A lot has happened in the field of buffers. I will say a few words about it in a moment, but this is broadly in line with what Mr Sneller has just said. The Netherlands now has the strictest bonus policy in Europe. Much more has happened in the area of transparency, and you can also see on files that directly affect consumers that things have really changed. I would also like to point out that on that particular issue, for example, the code for SMEs is on the agenda, but also a campaign such as redemption, the sector itself, at least in my view, thinks much more clearly what the interests of the consumer and of the customer could be. The same applies to climate, by the way. I will say more about that in a moment. At the same time, it is also true that we have not yet arrived and that confidence in the sector has not been restored and that in the last calendar year we have again gained a few butses in the Netherlands. There is a lot more to be said about this, but for the sake of time I am sure I will go to a question that Mr Van Raan and I think Mr Snels and Mr Sneler have asked. Does that mean you're prepared for another crisis now? I think the honest answer is that you have to take the lead that Mr Sneller took, namely that we are much better off in the Netherlands in particular and that the chance is the greatest. It is not for nothing that we need to find the solution there. Frankly, my observation is that much more needs to be done in Europe. This applies to the Member States, and I would like to stress again and again what needs to be done with regard to reforms and compliance with the Stability and Growth Pact, but it also applies to banks. I would remind you once again that, provided we manage to achieve the risk reduction properly, it is wise to establish a common deposit guarantee scheme, because it simply reduces the risks for taxpayers if you meet the right conditions. I don't think that's the only thing. The President of De Nederlandsche Bank, who has been quoted here many times, also thinks so, but I do not think we are already here. Mr Snels also mentioned the completion of the banking union. I said something about that right away. In that order, I will also continue to stress the need to continue with EDIS. I will also continue to stress the need for a common capital market union. That's one of the, if I may call it that, missing links in this file. It is also a difficult dossier, in which not everyone is like the Netherlands. I also very much agree with what Mr Snels said about diversity and financial services, but I will come back to that in a separate block.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u3	I thank the Minister for the answers. I understand that he speaks in terms of scenarios, probabilities and probability calculations, because predicting the future is difficult, especially when it comes to the future. I'd like to zoom in on it a little bit. It is also about the interconnectedness of financial systems. That was one of the reasons why it went wrong in 2008. The Minister says that buffers have increased and that measures have been taken. But is he reassured enough, and can he reassure us enough, that the financial system and the banks in the Netherlands are not too big to fail, are not too big to bail-out, and that the intertwinedness with other European banks is not too great?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u4	I think the proverb is: predicting is difficult, especially when it comes to the future. My observation is that a lot has really been done, so we have to do something about ourselves, and I really do not think that we should fail in this debate. We certainly must not fail our predecessors, my predecessors, but also the predecessors of some of them here in the Chamber, because they are very hard hit. Much has changed with regard to the very broad basket that Mr Van der Linde referred to and to which Mr Sneller referred with regard to those buffers. Much has also changed in terms of the integrity and intensity with which politics interferes. Moreover, a great deal has changed in terms of consumer attention, partly because politics sometimes insists on it. However, I am the last to say: now we are done, now we can move on to the order of the day. I think we should do more, especially in a European context. I am also continuing to press for higher buffers in the European context, and I would like to make a comment from Mr Nijboer. I sincerely believe that the step we took in May 2018 is a step in the right direction, but I would like even higher buffers. I believe that we need to do much more at European level in the fight against money laundering. A little success we have now. There is much more attention to it, but that is far from it. All you have to do is read the papers, all those reports about banks in other countries. Then you have no choice but to be delivered. So I think that both countries and banks and all other stakeholders should do more in Europe to actually be ready and prepared for a next crisis. And Mr Snels was absolutely right: it would be a very strange coincidence if the next crisis had the same contours as the previous one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u5	Thank you for the answer; that is indeed not reassuring. Maybe you couldn't. I note that I do not entirely agree with him where he says that a lot has happened with regard to integrity. A lot has indeed happened in terms of integrity, but not necessarily the right thing, given the banking arrangements of the recent past.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u6	What I meant to say was that politics has been concerned and has also come up with regulations that have an effect on integrity. I am thinking, for example, of the fact that we now have the strictest bonus legislation in Europe. It wasn't ten years ago. We didn't have that kind of debate at all back then. Mr. Chairman. I'm here to talk about innovation. Quite rightly, Mr. Van der Linde mentioned a number of innovative players. Mr Nijboer and also Mr Snels asked what is still needed to better adjust the social antennas of the peaks of banks and restore confidence. For the record, that is primarily up to the banks themselves, but I have deliberately sent an agenda to the Chamber in full depth and depth in December, which is about stability, about integrity and about innovation, because those three pillars must, as far as I am concerned, sustain this movement. I also think that, as a cabinet, we should, of course, very much like to engage in dialogue with the Chamber itself. I will not list the rows that are in those neat color tables, but I deliberately wanted to outline to the Chamber what I see in front of me that should happen, partly by the banks themselves and partly simply by asking for attention in the political arena. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the final comment on culture and trust. I think Mr Nijboer will recognize that. To some extent, this can be promoted through legislation and regulation and also through intensive discussion, if necessary, but it must also come from the institutions themselves. I have answered Mr Van Raan's question about too big to fail. Then Mr Van Raan asked me whether I agree that the market has no morals and needs a strong market master. I agree with what the Prime Minister has said, in my opinion, in a previous capacity, I would just like to make it clear that the market needs a strict market master. I think that's exactly what's going on here. In recent years, too, there have been real fundamental steps in the area of capital, in the area of bail-in buffers. The whole of supervision has also been taken much more strongly to a European level. That too is absolutely right, because many banks do not operate exclusively at national level. I think I have answered Mr Van Dijck's question about too big to fail. That was the same as Mr Van Raan's. Mr Nijboer asked me to focus on shadow banking. It is good to stress that non-banks can be an important alternative source of funding. In a way, that is the basic idea behind the capital market union. I understand very well that Mr Nijboer says: you should also be aware of the potential risks of shadow banking. In my view, it is a problem that is more acute in other countries than in the Netherlands. It does mean that we must continue to analyse those risks. At micro level, the authorities also supervise these institutions. The same is happening at European level.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u7	There is a question from Mr Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u8	I heard the Minister say that he answered my question about too big to fail, but I have not really heard a satisfactory answer. Hence a supplementary question. Over the last ten years, the Chamber has regularly ruled by majority that there should be a separation between utility and business banks, and that the banks are too large. Also from the PvdA I have heard more often that banks need to be smaller, that they need to be divided up, that they need to be able to go bankrupt. Now we are still in the situation in the Netherlands with three large banks, which have 84% of the market share and make 10 billion net profits. And all three of them can't go bankrupt, because that would seriously disrupt the Dutch economy. In other words, we still have the same problem of too big to fail.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u9	Mr President, with permission, because I am speaking through you to the committee's nestor, of course, but I think he is now putting a number of things together. Look, the cabinet's position on the separation of utility and business banks is clear. We don't intend to. Mr Van Dijck is right that there are still three very large banks in the Netherlands. I am therefore in favour of more innovation. This means that we have looked very carefully at how we can implement the PSD2 directive. This brings you to the classic dilemma: you want innovation, precisely because of the reasons Mr Van Dijck describes, but you also want to guarantee privacy. For exactly the same reason, I am also pulling so hard on the capital market dossier. If you look at the Dutch landscape, but certainly also at the European landscape, I believe that about 80% of all funding runs through banks. If you compare that with the United States, you can see that private parties are much more able to lend, for example to SMEs, than we are used to in the Netherlands and Europe. That would be better, that would force the sector to become more competitive. In the end, the citizens will reap the benefits of this. I agree with that. My last point, which I had answered in the direction of Mr Van Raan, is that we have indeed taken great steps in the buffers and the adequacy with which banks, especially the three large ones in the Netherlands, have prepared themselves and are stronger in favour of them than a number of years ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u10	That they have some bigger buffers, I believe, but if there really is a problem, then we cannot miss all three banks, like DSB, in the Netherlands. We're way too dependent on those banks, and those banks know that. So these banks dare to take risks. That's how the crisis started. Those banks dare to take risks, because they know: if things go wrong, there is a Dutch state that takes care of us, because the economy is too dependent on us. You should want to break that dependency. That is what we have been fighting for for ten years in the Chamber with motions that we want smaller banks, which can go bankrupt. And where are we after ten years? We still have three megabanks that almost have oligopoly, because those margins don't go down either, because why would they? They hold themselves together and they make a profit like crazy. And if things don't work out, we're still at the bar.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u11	I will suppress the tendency to respond to everything Mr Van Dijck says, but I would like to say a few words about that point of the three large banks. Just looking at the buffers they hold, I can honestly say that they are better placed. But it is also true that we still have a way of making it possible to join, for example, by innovative players. However, I would like to point out that the Netherlands has not been the last to implement the PSD2 directive for nothing, precisely because we have struggled very strongly in this Chamber with the dilemma between, on the one hand, the great, great desire, in my view, also in the Chamber, to give innovative new parties access to this market. We'd rather have small tech parties. But on the other hand, we also want privacy to be guaranteed. So that's where you'll see that dilemma again. That's a point, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u12	I would like to make a very specific point on this point. If these three commercial banks are actually making a fool of themselves again, can the Minister rule out the possibility that one of those three will be held up again with taxpayers' money?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u13	No. And that is, of course, exactly why we have had such an intensive debate and why the Chamber has rightly also called for attention to be paid to these two major dossiers which have been played at one specific bank in the past year. I also said here: if it was a cookie factory, you could bankrupt it. That does not require anything from the Chamber, from the Cabinet or from the taxpayer. But a lot of if-dance further...................................................................................................................................................................................................... That could be the reality in a scenario that none of us are hoping for. So I cannot rule that out and it would also be unwise to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u14	Then I can see that we have the worst of both worlds. Because on the one hand, we have commercial companies that make billions of profits and where the shareholders are paid billions. If things go well, they're gonna get the hots for it. But the Minister can't rule out that if things go badly, we'll get the burdens again. They like it, we like the burden. Is that fair, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u15	No. And precisely because of the issue of justice, which Mr Alkaya rightly points out, we in Europe are also working so hard to ensure that we reduce the chance that the taxpayer will ever stand up for it again. This applies to the country debate, but that also applies to the banking debate. This is also exactly the discussion I have with the Chamber during the AO's on a monthly basis. That's our bet. And that is precisely why we are so very satisfied with the 8% bail-in we achieved in May 2018. Not only my perception, but also that of many economists, of the President of De Nederlandsche Bank and of others, is that the overall package gives us a considerably more robust shield against a next crisis. But I cannot rule out the fact that there will be a force major in which it will be necessary, or in which at least the dilemma that one of my predecessors has also stood for will arise again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u16	I have a question on the point that the Minister was just making about the shadow banks after the comprehensive answer to Mr Van Dijck. It's a bit of a disrespectful word. Does the Minister say that we have to keep following it, and is it really enough? Do I listen to the Minister that well? Or does he agree with me that there are still further steps to be taken, also with stress tests and with further analysis to see what, for example, is intertwined with other banks?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u17	Yes. The only comment I wanted to make is that it's a bit short-sighted to pretend that any form of banking other than through a regular bank would be a dodgy activity. The word "shadow banking" alone has an almost negative connotation. It is true that I have to agree with Mr Sneller and Mr Nijboer that you should keep an eye on the potential risks of so-called shadow banking, especially when you know that this is so great in Europe. Perhaps to reassure you: the ESRB and the FSB publish annually, because they monitor what is going on and what is going on in the field of shadow banking.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u18	But precisely this European Systemic Risk Board, ESRB, says: if things go wrong in the future, we do not have enough insight into what the domino effects are, because we do not have enough insight into the interconnectedness with other banks. My feeling is that we still need to take a step further in order to gain that insight and better regulate that supervision, regardless of the merits it has. I fully agree with the Minister that non-banking financial services also play a very useful role and may still need to be expanded. But that's exactly where you need to improve supervision.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u19	To be honest, I do sympathize with what Mr Sneller asked the question originally from Mr Nijboer, namely whether we should take another step. For the sake of completeness, a capital market union is another form of lending. I believe that this is something that many in this Chamber are strongly in favour of. Not every form of non-bancair borrowing or regulating non-bancair financial affairs is therefore directly an additional risk or something undesirable. Here's what I'd like to say to both gentlemen. I will talk to De Nederlandsche Bank again to see if he sees any risks and, if so, which ones, and whether or not there are any policy consequences and, if so, which ones.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u20	This seems to me to be a valuable commitment. Because my experience in the financial sector is that if you light the lid off it, you put the light on it and you look at it, you're surprised at what's happening. The Dutch Bank looked at this a number of years ago, but I think it is a good thing that they do it again, because there can simply be major risks to the real economy if we do not understand that. I don't know if we have enough control of that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u21	I fully understand the inspiration of both speakers. But I would, to put it classically, like to do Schritt für Schritt. This means that I first talk to De Nederlandsche Bank and then see how they see this themselves and what follow-up steps are adequate. I shall, of course, come back to that in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u22	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u23	Mr. Chairman. Mr Alkaya asked a question about the De Wit Committee. For the record, my observation is that this committee has done very useful work and that many of the recommendations of the De Wit Committee have indeed been implemented. When I was drawing up my own banking agenda, I asked the Ministry to look again to see if there were anything left on the screen that you should have done. But I would like to take a broad approach to the Chamber, towards Mr Alkaya, to show what the recommendations were: a long list of things, and how they may or may not have been translated into policy, into ideas, into European legislation and so on. Maybe that's how I get to deal with Mr. Alkaya. Mr. Chairman. Mr Nijboer asked about the society of billions robbing or stealing €100. That was about his summary. I have been absolutely clear that I find what happened in that money laundering case extremely serious. That is why I have also announced in the agenda for the financial sector that we need to continue with this. I also told the Chamber that I wanted to talk to JenV's colleagues to see if there was more to be done in terms of the system in terms of money laundering and data pooling. Because on the one hand, I think it is truly important that banks themselves make all the investments and do everything we can reasonably expect from them. In that one case, that did not happen very clearly. On the other hand, however, I think it is valid that banks also ask politics and us: help us with the toolbox that makes this easy. One of the things that I still find strange is this: if you go to one bank now, I say it is a domestic thing, you can walk across the street and open an account at the next bank. There's something intricate about that. So there is also an assignment for the colleagues of JenV and myself. I'll come back to that later this year in the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. I would like to make a final comment to Mr Nijboer on his question. What they have of course changed is that the administrative fines have been increased and that De Nederlandsche Bank has now also published the administrative sanctions imposed in principle, for a number of months. I've reached the block of diversity and the WRR.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u24	First, Mr. Nijboer would like to discuss this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u25	That block also has my warm interest, but I would like to continue with this. Because this is a bit characteristic, I fear, for the Dutch approach: we publish fines and cause reputational damage. But if you just look from a distance, outside the money-laundering business, you can see that there has been a huge financial crisis that has had a huge impact on the Netherlands. In Ireland, Iceland and America, I know how many bankers have just ended up behind bars. In the Netherlands this only happened with the real estate man of SNS Property Finance, who really committed gross fraud. Is that fair, and does that do justice to the impact? That was the underlying question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u26	Again, I really think that measures have been taken in recent years, such as administrative fines. See also the fine that has been recently distributed; I would not call that crumbs. And I think the fact that De Nederlandsche Bank is now going to publish sanctions is also a real gain. At the same time, however, I shall gradually slip into the field of JenV's colleagues on the subject of human rights, because only then can there be a criminal case. In the debate I had with the Chamber on the ING case, I also heard JenV's colleagues make it very clear that the D.A. has gone through a lot of trouble to see if a suspect could be identified, and that it simply didn't succeed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u27	That's why it's wider. We have discussed the ING case extensively. But ABN is nationalized with tax money and all the misery it took, and top man Rijkman Groenink left with 26 million. There are of course all individual cases abroad, but on balance there are just people arrested for it. And here, besides Buck Groenhof from SNS Property Finance, everyone gets the dance. Looking at this, apart from ING's money laundering case, I do not think that this does justice to the seriousness of the abuses during the financial crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u28	There are several layers in the answer. For I think that Mr Nijboer also recognizes that those who have ended up behind bars abroad, for all kinds of reasons, but also deal with insider trading and all kinds of things that are clearly punishable, have also ended up behind bars in the Netherlands. Besides, I'm gonna say something, and that might be the last part. Let me refer you back to the ING case. In the debate, the Ministers of JenV have also promised, in my view also to Mr Nijboer and others, that they will look again at the whole practice of transaction policy to see whether this is sufficient to appeal to the sense of justice, as Mr Nijboer describes it. I can say that about it, but not much more.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u29	I would like to come back to the example the Minister outlined: that you are being squeezed out of one bank and then you walk right back into the other bank. I would like to ask the Minister whether he is prepared to look also at the experience gained in the insurance sector. Insurers already have an advanced system in which they can check acceptance of new clients on the basis of the history of, for example, the number of claims. It comes to me a little strange that banks would not be able to share certain history, while on other matters at a much deeper level of detail that is already happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u30	Thank you for that suggestion. I'd love to take it with me. I myself would also like us to look at how things are arranged abroad. By the way, I have addressed many foreign colleagues on this money laundering case and I would not dare to say that this is a smaller problem in most other countries of the European Union. Then I'll say it carefully. I would very much like to take Mr Ronnes' suggestion. I honestly think you should sketch this story in four panels. The first is the issues that the banks can already share and already do. The second is those things that they may be able to do, but they are not doing at the moment. Which ones are, I can't articulate exactly now, but you should look at that. The third is those things that you would really like banks to be able to share, but they are not allowed to do so now. That then requires something from me and possibly from the Chamber. The last piece is made up of things that you might be able to regulate with a change in regulation, but which you say is a step too far for privacy's sake. I think that we are now in the stage of examining very clearly what obstacles are felt by the sector and what adjustments may be called for to politics. Then politics must then weigh between more effective supervision and more effective information exchange on the one hand and privacy on the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u31	The Minister can move on to "diversity in banking country."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u32	Mr. Chairman. Diversity. I shall begin with a question from Mr Ronnes and Mr Sneller. How can we guarantee that? I am actually back with a remark just made by Mr Van Dijk. We're really doing the best we can. I have also written on the agenda that we are going to see what we can learn from the United Kingdom in terms of diversity. Moreover, with the PSD2, we have created a possibility......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I also continue to work for the capital market union. To be honest, it is not that easy. Mr Snels and Mr Snels rightly pointed out the greater uniformity of the banking landscape, i.e. the size, the uniformity. This is one of the consequences of the demands, rules and conditions that we impose on the banks as politically. If you saw a very sharp gate through which you have to go, only the institutions that meet those contours and conditions can walk through that gate. Again, I absolutely want to continue with the setting of clear conditions, but also with the promotion of diversity. I don't think we're done talking about that for a while. Mr Alkaya asked if I was going to carry out his own initiative paper and whether I would like to comment on the WRR report. I would like to thank Mr Alkaya very much for his own initiative paper. Mr Nijboer also issued an own-initiative paper earlier on this dossier. I think this will bring valuable discussions. I also see how much work is going to be in it. So I will come up with a response and then I will deal with the WRR and the SP initiative paper together. Mr. Chairman. I think I left one more question. This is also in the block of diversity, but it is about a different type of diversity, namely diversity in boards of directors and supervisory boards. That question actually belongs in the block in general. I would also like to point out that this is an issue for which I would like to draw particular attention in the discussions with the banks. In addition, the person responsible for emancipation and diversity in this cabinet demands full attention. However, it has also said that it does not want to move to quotas at the moment. I think this is a sensible consideration. By the way, the figures of Dutch banks don't look so bad if you keep them against the third rule. I believe that the number of women on boards is between 35% and 40%. That is not a percentage at board level that worries me very much. But it's a permanent assignment. Mr. Chairman. Which brings me to fintech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u33	There is a question from Mr Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u34	Still a question about the diversity in the banking landscape. In my own contribution, I was talking about that crazy dilemma. If there's no trust, you're going to make more and more laws and rules. I don't think we can get out of that right now. At the same time, we see a huge increase in compliance costs for smaller banks. Now I am the last one to argue that we need to relax the rules, but, for example, in the case of money laundering, the banks themselves have already proposed: can we not work together anymore so that you can relieve smaller banks? That's one example. I would find it interesting in itself if we could take a look at the existing, complex regulations, whether they are money laundering, buffers or supervision, or whether we could meet those smaller banks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u35	I'd like to take that question with me, but I also want to be realistic. The first work assignment we have is to map together with JenV what can be exchanged at this moment and what banks can exchange with each other, what could be exchanged but what they don't do and what you would like them to be able to change with each other: the first three pieces of the quadruple that I just outlined. I think that's the first assignment. The moment you think about "how could you pool data in such a way that privacy is guaranteed?', Then the question is: how do you do it in a way that will help those who need to do a disproportionate effort? That is how I understand Mr Snels' comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u36	I see that Mr Snels wants to respond to that. I think it would be useful to do that before I give Mr Nijboer the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u37	Yes, thank you, Mr. Chairman. I can see those dilemmas. In the previous debate we had, I myself was reluctant to do so. But it is also about investment in ICT and how data can be analysed. That too cannot be done by some smaller banks and smaller institutions themselves. I understand from the sector that larger banks could help. Then you get some forms of cooperation in which you might look at the individual responsibility of banks in a slightly different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u38	I understand what Mr Snels is saying, and I can also discuss it with the banks, but that would certainly be in asking form at first. Because that does mean that I think out loud that two private parties themselves should also see the added value of making agreements and, for example, sharing certain costs. I do not see an immediate role for myself there. It's very specific on the other file.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u39	The Minister says that diversity still needs to be dealt with, but we are on the right track. At ABN, a quarter of the seats on the board of directors and the supervisory board are occupied by a woman, but at ING, that's just a quarter of the supervisory board, two out of eight, which is not much, but no one at all on the board of directors. Let that be just the two banks where there are the biggest concerns when it comes to how much feeling they have in society, do they feel a little? In the case of remuneration relationships, behaviour and culture. I don't think that's a coincidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u40	I agree with Mr Nijboer that, in general, I am not talking about these two banks for a moment, the collection of white highly educated men of 60-plus, and I am not saying that to the detriment of yourself, of those kinds of people, is not the best guarantee of much diversity. For this reason, I have written in the banking agenda that I will continue to bring this issue to the attention of each of the banks for a very specific reason. My observation is that the sector itself sees that this must be done. In general, you see a tendency in the right direction. But I understand that Mr Nijboer says that diversity is not nearly in order for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u41	I really believe that the Minister finds this and is doing his best to do so, but I do not want to change that. When you talk to the bankers and VNO, they all say it. Only, the misery is that those people say that all the time, but the result is that we are with an ING, the largest bank in the country, where there is just zero diversity at the top of the board, after ten years or fifteen years of these discussions. I don't think that's acceptable. So I ask the Minister, apart from talking about this behind the scenes, to make a statement here that it is simply not of this time anymore and that it cannot be.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u42	I believe that in general I have stressed in many places and also in all kinds of speeches in the country why I think that diversity is not only evident in the twenty-first century, if I may put it that way, but that it actually helps to understand what is going on. You can also see that in effective teams. Not to defend any bank, but I would like to look more broadly than just man/woman. That's the first subdivision we make, but I think you should also look at competences, or bankers versus non-bankers. By the way, De Nederlandsche Bank and the ECB have very specific views on the criteria to be met as supervisory boards. So I'd like to go wider. Perhaps I should consider Mr Nijboer's remarks in such a way that I need to be even more vocal where necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u43	Mr. Nijboer, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u44	We are here in Parliament, so you can say what you think here. That's my call.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u45	I think I just did it three times.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u46	My estimate is that ING will not be looking for a broadening of the board tomorrow, which is necessary and desirable if they are to try to build up a little feeling with society again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u47	I think that Mr Nijboer and I are going a long way together on this issue. I mean that sincerely. In general, I have said how important I am to diversity. I sincerely believe, and that is also my own experience, that diversity helps in organizing contradiction and in building effective teams. I believe that diversity should also continue to flow into the financial sector. Finally, I said that, as far as I am concerned, diversity is wider than just man/woman. In this way, I have once again voiced the appeal by which Mr Nijboer seduced me. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll be at the block about fintech. I find here strangely the diversity card again, but I just played it. A few brief comments on this. Mr Sneller asked how we can ensure that risks are controlled and that supervisors are properly prepared in this context. That is, of course, a very fair question. It also leads to the heart of the PSD2 debate we had together. Here is the dilemma: we all expect innovation and fintech to lead to more diversity, and I think we want that too. I suspect that many here are making use of this innovation. Think of things like ticks that didn't exist that long ago. I think I remember from one of the last debates that MPs brought forward to whom they all sent tickies these days. There are many more examples. It is important, however, that we then ensure that we look closely at and reflect on privacy and security. The Nederlandsche Bank and the ACM pay close attention to the possible consequences of the shifts in the payment landscape. De Nederlandsche Bank is also working to systematically identify whether concentration risks occur. My final comment, President: The Netherlands Bank has also set out a number of supervisory issues in the report on the supervision of an open banking sector. Mr. Chairman. Mr Snels asked what new risks new market conditions would result from bigtech. That can, of course, lead to more intertwinedness. That also means, as far as I am concerned, that we will have to monitor very well what PSD2 brings. Not for nothing have I given the Dutch Data Protection Authority an explicit role in the PSD2 file. I think that was with the explicit approval of the Chamber. That was right because, if I may put it that way, that is the golden standard we have in terms of privacy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u48	Here again the question of whether supervision is properly regulated. Google has applied for a permit in Lithuania. With all due respect to the regulator in Lithuania: Google is a big party and it's kind of hard to do that on your own. So here too, I advocate European supervision of that point. The only question is whether we can trust that supervision is properly regulated until European supervision is in place. That was my question to the Minister: is supervision well prepared and well equipped?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u49	The answer is just like it was six months ago, but I also see the case as well, because we also exchanged it. I think it wasn't Lithuania at the time, it was Malta. I believe that one of the other Baltic States has also passed. What if there is a party there that will then offer services in the Netherlands? I think I also said at the time that I believe with Mr Sneller that a lot of steps need to be taken here to do this European, but that the Dutch supervisor, De Nederlandsche Bank, is not exempt from the obligation to supervise here either. That is true, but let us be perfectly honest: this is new territory for all of us. That is also what I said at the time. So we're just gonna have to keep monitoring this very tight. This will also remain part of the conversations I have with De Nederlandsche Bank.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u50	I think with both De Nederlandsche Bank and the Dutch Financial Markets Authority, but I only think that monitoring for European developments is a little insufficient, because I think we already know that we need to deal with it in a different way. In my view, then, the European commitment should be: let us regulate European supervision rather than just keeping national regimes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u51	That's exactly what I'm calling for. I really do see a shift in Europe there, because I think we have started with quite a lot of enthusiasm with PSD2, precisely because of the innovation that that could bring. It has been said not only wrongly that the Netherlands was so slow in implementing that directive, but I believe that more than ten countries were too late in implementing it. That was my observation, because during that process in several parliaments and in several capitals the question arose as to what this means for privacy. I therefore believe that Mr Sneller is absolutely wrong: we must also want to regulate this at European level. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll be at the climate. Mr. Snels asked for that. He also asked how we map this. I agree with him that banks and supervisors need to gain more insight. I think we are at the very beginning of that. I would like to point out that, if I have to indicate where the banks play an unsolicited and proactive role, which I consider to be sensible and forward-looking, in this area. Because the banks themselves have come up with the task imposed on them to start monitoring first and then also to provide a lower footprint. With regard to sustainability, not only Mr Snels but also Mr Snelter asked me to enter into the discussion with the sector on further transparency. Yes, absolutely, but I was frankly positively surprised when last year several parties were on the doorstep and said: we are thinking about this; what do you think? Of course, I had no choice but to encourage them, but they were one step ahead of me. Mr President, that was the climate block.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u52	Block.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u53	Block, yeah. It's all short cubes. I think I'm going to puzzle again on Mr Trichet's comment on human nature. I would also like to argue that, if human nature is the greatest danger, it is also the only card we have in the'solutions' category. It's as simple as that. Mr President, I thought I had come to the end of my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u54	We shall see which question Mr Snels has left.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u55	The cube of climate was very short. I'll take a quick analytical look at it. One: we need to make the risks transparent; this includes, for example, audit firms. How are you gonna do that and what standards are you gonna use? Two: they need to help invest in the transition. This concerns pension funds, banks and perhaps insurers. Three: they need to phase out the expulsions that remain in the fossil sector. I must honestly say that I am a bit keen on what the financial sector is actually doing in all three areas and what good initiatives there are. I also see them occasionally, but how does this lead to one path and what role does the Minister of Finance have in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u56	I had just begun to give a sincere compliment to the sector, because it has been pro-actively pursued. They have also come to me proactively, and they want to take steps themselves to increase understanding and to make it easier for society to understand and get the CO content of a portfolio. In addition, there are specific banks, which really go a few steps further. I do not know whether it makes sense to try to give some sort of situational and ambitions of the sector here. I'd be happy to put it back on paper where I think we are now. But I would not like to spoil the enthusiasm and the proactivity in the sector; I would particularly encourage them to continue doing so. I think it's going the right way. So I would like to give that outline, but that is a summary of where I see the sector and what the sector itself has expressed in its ambitions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u57	I like that commitment. I'll wait for the letter. Perhaps it could also take into account the work being done in Brussels on the European directives which relate precisely to these areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u58	Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u59	I have a very specific question. After the Brexit, the Netherlands attracts a lot of trading houses and stock exchange platforms that leave the United Kingdom because of the Brexit. Is it true that these companies are not covered by the Compensation Policy Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u60	The rules for the parties that come here after the Brexit are of course exactly the same as those that apply to others. The same applies to newcomers as to those who are already here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u61	I get that. But it's about the nature of the companies. The issue is that not only the banks, but also the stock exchange platforms and trading houses trading in bonds will be affected by the bonus legislation as we know it in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u62	Yes. The bonus legislation that we know in the Netherlands again, which is the strictest in Europe; we have also recently advocated it for all the parties established here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u63	Sir, would you stop that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u64	I see that Mr Van Dijck has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u65	I am concerned about the support that all the banks have received from the ECB. Today I read in the newspaper that TLTROs are likely to be released again by the ECB towards the banks. I'm like: does the Minister think, as we're ten years away, that the banks are in a healthy position, that they can stand on their own feet and that they don't need the ECB for all kinds of things? As long as that is not the case, I do not really think it is right for banks to pay dividends at all. They have to be able to stand on their own feet, they have to be healthy first, and only then can they pay dividends. Does the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u66	I think I have said a lot about where the banks stand and why they stand better than they did ten years ago, in all kinds of areas and thanks to the efforts of many. I have also outlined that I believe that, especially outside the Netherlands, there is still a great deal to be done to prepare for the next crisis. This applies to governments, and that applies to the banking sector. The nestor knows better than anyone that I am not dealing with the ECB's monetary policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u67	It's pretty logical. I outlined that last year the banks made 10 billion profits. That's 10 billion being paid out to shareholders. I personally think that if the banks make so much profit and plan to pay so much money, they should at least be healthy first and get rid of the infusion. But a lot of banks are still on the ECB infusion. And it seems that even after the end of QE it will continue with those TLTROs for a while. Can the Minister not argue in Europe for this to be in the context of the banking union, which I do not agree with, moreover, that the Italian banks do not pay dividends while they are still on the infusion? At least that would be a profit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u68	I am almost by definition inclined to carry out Mr Van Dijck's work in Europe, but I also want to be careful. In Europe, I insist on solid banks throughout the European landscape. There's a lot to be done on that. I cannot make Mr Van Dijck's suggestion as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u69	Then we came to the end of the first term on the Minister's side. I thank him for the answers. We can move on to the second term of office. The first speaker is Mr Nijboer. A speaking time of 1 minute shall be 20 seconds for all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've filed motions on higher buffer requirements several times. I'm not doing that today. In view of this debate, I do not think that the majority of the Chamber has changed its mind at once. I don't file the same motion every three months, but I still do. I have two other motions, Mr. Chairman. The first is about diversity. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is still far too little diversity within the top of the Dutch banks;]] [[whereas improvements have been promised over and over again, but insufficient results are still being achieved;]] [[Whereas a sufficient sense of socially acceptable behaviour appears to be lacking in the summit over and over again;]] [[calls on the Government to impose a diversity quota on the financial sector,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32013-202]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u71	Mr. Chairman. And then I have another motion that I think the Minister could support. It's about locking up bankers or people in the financial sector who have behaved badly. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the financial crisis has been caused by human actions;]] [[whereas in the Netherlands there have been hardly any criminal prosecutions for their role in the crisis, whereas in other countries they have;]] [[Whereas the consequences for society have been enormous;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how to more effectively prosecute and propose criminal proceedings for persons who endanger financial stability,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Nijboer and Mr Van der Linde. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32013-203]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u73	Then we can move on to Mr. Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u74	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is still a bit strange to have to deal with such a big debate in such a short time, because there is a lot on the table. I thank the Minister for his answers. I would also like to thank him for the commitment to send a further letter to the Chamber containing an overview of climate risks and initiatives in the financial sector. There's only one question left from my first term. We have talked a lot today about the social role that banks have, about the social responsibility and about the occasional lack of the social antenna. I illustrated this by reference to the remuneration relationships and the statement made by the Minister himself. I realize that it was not just about the financial sector, but also about large other multinational companies: an average CEO earns 171 times more than an average employee. All these pay debates, concrete proposals from the opposition and proposals from the minister are still available, but I would like to ask the Minister the following. Does he agree that in the financial sector, the difference between the top of the institution and the average employee, the pay gap, should eventually be reduced and that this is better for society? What mechanisms does he see to achieve this? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u75	Thank you, Mr. Quick. I call Mr Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for the comprehensive answer. It is still strange: the answer has been extended to a debate, but the debate remains rather short to discuss such a subject. Several spokesmen have already said it. We looked back today at how we dealt with the crisis. We've looked forward in part, too. We are going to talk about this in detail, because the Scientific Council for Government Policy has presented a comprehensive report on this subject with fundamental proposals for changes to the system. I submitted an own-initiative paper. I'm glad to see that they're being taken together. Because there's a lot of overlap in it. The Minister also promised to send an overview of the De Wit Committee's recommendations, their progress and perhaps also an appreciation of the cabinet, in the sense of whether it intends to do something with them. I look forward to that. I would like to ask the Minister to give an indication of when that will come and to steer these two matters around at the same time so that we can talk about this, as the De Wit Committee has come up with fundamental proposals. In addition, I have a motion to be sure, but if the Minister can convince me in the second term, I will withdraw it immediately. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that many investment firms, such as trading houses and stock exchange platforms, come to the Netherlands through Brexit;]] [[noting that there are currently no remuneration rules for these institutions;]] [[considers that financial service providers should be subject to strict remuneration rules in order to avoid excessive incentives for remuneration in the sector;]] [[calls on the Government to include trading houses and stock exchange platforms in the remuneration policy of financial corporations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Alkaya. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32013-204]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u77	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for replying in the first term and also to colleagues for the debate on the financial sector situation ten years after the crisis. I have two motions. The first motion deals with the objective of ensuring that the level of supervision is monitored at the desired and necessary level within the EU. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that supervision of the financial sector has increased significantly in recent years and that supervision in the Netherlands is being taken professionally;]] [[whereas establishment in one EU country is sufficient to offer financial products in other EU Member States, but the level of supervision in other EU countries is not always at the Dutch level;]] [[Calls on the Government to consider how it can be regulated at EU level that Dutch supervisors are given more tools to deal with malicious suppliers and their products on the Dutch market;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure an objective European benchmark for the level of supervisors with a view to obtaining the level of supervision at the desired and necessary level,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ronnes and Mr Sneller. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32013-205]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u78	Then there is a motion designed to encourage, in particular, the continuation of the line set out by the Minister in his first term. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that, since the 2008 crisis, steps have been taken in Europe to regulate the financial sector under the heading "banking union';]] [[Whereas good steps have been taken to achieve lower bonuses and higher buffers, but still not all banks in all Member States are safe and the risks in the banking system are still significant;]] [[calls on the Government to continue its efforts to maintain the existing rules in the Banking Union and to strengthen bonus rules and buffers at EU level,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ronnes and Mr Sneller. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32013-206]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u79	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will begin by tabling two motions on the climate impact of the financial sector. The banks were one step ahead of the minister. That's a nice compliment in itself. These motions are meant to give him a push in the back, so that he can at least keep track of them. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that banks subscribe to Paris' climate goals but that there is no clear standard for measuring the contribution of financial institutions and their products to those objectives;]] [[Whereas a uniform, verifiable measurement method of the climate impact of investment is essential for transparency on the climate impact of the financial sector;]] [[calls on the Government to engage with the financial sector in order to achieve a uniform, or at least comparable, and externally verifiable measurement method for the climate impact of their investments,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Sneller. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32013-207]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u80	The second motion refers to the long-term package leaflet I mentioned. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the financial sector has endorsed the Paris climate targets;]] [[Whereas savers and investors have the right to be informed about the climate impact of financial products;]] [[whereas this should preferably be done at European level, but otherwise at national level;]] [[Whereas information obligations already apply to the relevant financial aspects of opening an account or buying a financial product;]] [[calls on the government to engage with the financial sector with the aim of introducing a sustainable package leaflet informing customers and investors about the climate impact of their products,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Sneller. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32013-208]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u81	In my view, we have found that there is still a long way to go, but that we will also soon continue this debate with the Minister's agenda and the WRR report, as well as the SP own-initiative paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u82	Thank you, Mr. Faster. I call Mr Van Dijck of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u83	Mr. Chairman. I'm not as optimistic as this minister. Because ten years after Lehman, we're not in the right place, and we're not ready for another crisis. That's how honest we have to be. It's a missed chance that we haven't done that in those ten years. The Dutch taxpayer guarantees all the other euro countries and now, through the banks, guarantees all the zombie banks in southern Europe. The banks are not healthy and are still too big to fail. The debt mountain worldwide is higher than ever, 240 trillion dollars. The ECB's toolbox is now empty and the link between banking and the state is still present, especially in Italy. So a next crisis may well be many times bigger than the previous one. Let us therefore quickly set up the national savings bank, so that we are at least ready when the banking system explodes again and in any case we can continue with a reliable state bank and the payment system can continue. That's it for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u84	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijck. I call Mr Van Raan, Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u85	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the answers to the questions we have asked. It remains for the Animal Party that we believe that without a system of change, the chances of a next crisis are great and that the financial system will not be able to cope with them either. We also have doubts as to whether the current financial system within its current setting is capable of tackling climate change properly. That's why the next motion. That's a ruling for the Chamber, so it's not for the government. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[points out that without system change in the current financial sector, we are taking a great risk for the next crisis;]] [[says that with the current financial system we do not remain within the limits of the capacity of the planet,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32013-209]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u86	We're going to listen to the Minister's answer in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u87	Mr President, thank you. I would also like to thank Members for their comments and comments in the second term. Mr Alkaya asked for a cabinet response to his own initiative paper and the WRR report. I want to do that together. I'll come with it before the summer. There is still some work to be done, both in the WRR section and in the closing check, if I may call it that, on the De Wit committee. I would like to admit that both parts are in the Chamber before the summer. Mr. Chairman. Mr. Snels asked if the rewards should not be lowered. I have always said, and in the meantime also in preparation, that I think that decisions on rewarding the summit to the board of directors of a company are also called "banks," but that it is important to bear in mind the wider view of society. There's a lot more to be said about salary. I know that GroenLinks has inspiration in this area. I think we are going to talk about it in full terms, but this is my view of what the banks should do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u88	I understand the Minister's answer. I do not want to make it a checkable objective, but the Minister himself said that I believe, in his Bilderberg lecture, that it would be better for society if that ratio went down. Ultimately, as a political message, we should also convey that message in the discussion that boards of Commissioners, works councils and shareholders' meetings have on the remuneration policy of the summit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u89	It is, of course, always tempting to listen to the summary of my words by Mr Snels. I have mentioned a number of points. I said that we should look at a number of issues in the next decade, including pay. I said that it would be better for society, in my view and with the percentage that Mr Snels just mentioned, if the gap were to narrow rather than widen. That's what I said. I said it for that period, too. Not only for the future, but also for the here and now, I do not think that I am the one who should intervene, but that is up to Commissioners. By the way, I am very satisfied with how well Mr Snels reads what I say and haunt on the weekends. That gives the citizen courage.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u90	Let's get back to those rewards. I remember this minister being powerless when Ralph Hammers got a bonus of EUR 1 million on his salary of EUR 2 million. We have had social commotion about it and here in the Chamber we have managed to move the ING with a lot of tamtam to moving insight, but this minister could not do anything in all his powerlessness. In fact, I wonder if after a year this minister does have these instruments. Is there anything he can do for another action by Ralph Hamers or the ING?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u91	In my view, it is also important to say it very precisely. In that case, I said that I thought it was up to the supervisory board, but that it had to take into account the views of society. Especially for banks, they play a very important social role. I would like to be reminded by Mr Van Dijck on which files I am all powerless, but it is my observation that on both dossiers there was not so much a legal title, but the possibility of a conversation and a moral title. On both dossiers that has been in conversation with each other and that sometimes intimate conversation have certainly had an effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u92	But my problem is that if the Supervisory Board had said "Minister, climb into a tree; we think Ralph Hammers should just get an extra million," he would have gotten that. Then this minister would have stood by and stood by and watched a EUR 1 million bonus be given to a bank's CEO, and that's what matters to me. The Minister is talking about the so-called 20% bonus ceiling, but in the case of Hammers, they gave him 50% shares of 1 million without going against it. And then it's not a bonus anymore! In other words, that 20% bonus ceiling would be the strictest bonus ceiling in Europe makes no sense, because every banker and every CEO can give themselves 6 million bonuses in the form of shares, without compromising a performance. And this minister will get no further than a good conversation and a moral appeal. Soft, soft, soft! He doesn't have any tools. You must ensure that you have tools, Minister, so that you can say: this is not going to happen in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u93	I seem to recall that Nestor was one of the Greek kings who fought in the Trojan War. He was not only the oldest, but also one of the most intelligent. He was often consulted and consulted because of his ability to weigh and apply nuance. Only if you can live up to that, you'll also be adorned with the predicate "nestor," I've sometimes understood. That's just an introduction. Mr. Chairman. Still, it is my perception in that case that talking has certainly had an effect. I would not like to destroy the power of the word here in advance. In addition, and Mr Van Dijck is also aware of this, the cabinet is still preparing legislative proposals to ensure further tightening, inspired by that case. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the motions. The first motion is Mr Nijboer's motion on item No. 202 on the quota. In my view, Mr Nijboer and I are moving a long way together in terms of the great importance, but I must advise against this motion, precisely because of the arguments I gave in the first term. Mr. Chairman. The second motion is the motion in part No. 203. I had to have a little talk about that, because of course it's also about JenV. The current legal framework contains many points of departure for criminal intervention, for example in the case of insider dealing and fraud. Now it's true that the Minister of JenV is coming up with a letter on transactions and financial sanctions. I would like to give this motion of censure Chamber if I may explain it in such a way that this particular issue is also involved by the Minister of JenV in that letter. So then there will be an answer to the content. Otherwise, I have no option but to ask the petitioners to hold the motion, because this is really about criminal law. So I'm gonna have to consult on that. I can give the motion judgment Chamber, but then I also give it as a gift to the directors of JenV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u94	In itself, I can understand that. I just wanted to make sure that it is not just about transactions and settlements, but also about the abuses that can take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u95	With that connotation, I will also pass the motion on to my fellow Members. Mr President, for the sake of completeness, I shall therefore leave this motion to judge Chamber with the interpretation I have just given to it. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the third motion, to item No. 204. For the record, we simply want to maintain the Dutch model. That's what I just said. Trading venues operated by investment firms are subject to the bonus rules. If it is not an investment firm but a regulated market, it is not one of them, because those so-called prop traders act on their own account. So I want to leave the situation exactly as it is. That is why we are keeping Europe's strictest remuneration policy, and I must therefore also discourage the motion. Mr Ronnes' motion for a resolution (Doc. 205 is about bad financial products. In the ongoing negotiations in Europe, I am committed to strengthening and consistent application and implementation of European rules. The European Commission has already proposed moving a number of supervisory tasks to European level, in particular towards ESMA. In doing so, I believe that attention should be paid to strong national supervisors who have sufficient scope for setting national priorities. That's a reaction. I'll leave the motion judgment room. That brings me to the motion in part No. 206. I'd like to give him a room for judgment. Enforcement is largely not for me, but for the supervisors and the European Commission. I will continue to work for that. Again, we have really achieved everything, including the Member State option, which we have recently managed to ensure again. That brings me to Mr Sneller's motion on point No. 207. I need to be very specific right now. I feel the ambition and also the drive that Mr Sneller wants to do, and I can go along with that. I also recognise the great importance of comparability. I have just said that I am pleased that the financial sector itself is taking steps. However, it is primarily up to institutions themselves to choose an appropriate method. Honestly, I don't think we know exactly what the best measurement method is yet. I would like to talk to the sector about comparability of methods and ultimately also clarity in reporting. They are now working on that themselves and I would like to inspire them once again. In this context, there are also several European proposals that need to be more unambiguous. I would like to join this as much as possible. With that coloring, I'd like to leave the motion judgment room. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 208 on the durable package leaflet. That's where I'm also very precise. I share the view that the sector should be transparent about sustainability and that this should therefore also be taken into account in reporting. I would also like to continue the discussion at the various levels. There are also several European routes in which the Netherlands participates very actively, I might add. This really is another conversation that must be held in Europe in the first place, so that we can deal with it at once for all the financial institutions in Europe. If I may explain the motion in such a way that the aim is to introduce a package leaflet at European level, then I shall also leave this motion for a resolution to the House. Mr. Chairman. Then I think I'm through, because the motion in part No. 209 by Mr Van Raan is a motion requesting the opinion of the Chamber, but which does not require an appreciation of the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. Once again, I would like to thank Members very much for the comments they have made.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u96	I'm sorry I didn't get up directly on my own motion, but I still have a question about it. It is strange that, on the one hand, the Minister seems to suggest that a motion is superfluous because it is already so and then betrayed because he does not want to change the situation and does not want to change it. It's either one or the other, I guess. Let's take an example: Chicago Mercantile Exchange, a bond platform coming from the UK to Amsterdam. Are they going to be dealt with by the bonus regulations we have in the Netherlands or not? Are they gonna fall under or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u97	I do not know this particular example, but I have already made it crystal clear that the Dutch rules apply to everyone who comes to the Netherlands. I can't say it any clearer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u98	Then we have come to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-20-tweedekamer-9.u99	I would like to thank Members for their input and the Minister for answering the questions raised. The motions tabled will be put to the vote after the recess. That will be on Tuesday 5 March. I shall now suspend the Chamber's meeting until 4.10 p.m.
