ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u1	I ask Members to take their seats. The next item is the debate on the evaluation report on the incorrect recovery of childcare allowances. First of all, I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Finance, and also the Members of Parliament, the people in the public gallery, there are a lot of them now, and I see them and the viewers at home. Seven members have come forward to speak. Each member has five minutes and let's arrange two first-term interruptions. First of all, I give the floor to Mr Omtzigt of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr President, a procedural point. It's about interrupting each other, isn't it? 'Cause I could do some more interruptions at the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u3	We are talking about the second-term interruptions, and we are about to agree on other interruptions. Or wait, I mean first term. Apologies.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u4	Yes. On top of each other, but not at the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u5	Yes. That's a promise, I think. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u6	Mr. Chairman. A problem at the IRS can control your life, and that's exactly what happened in this file. Imagine getting out of nowhere a letter from the Tax Administration that your child care allowance will be stopped. You don't know why, so you're gonna call the IRS phone, which, luckily, will still be available. They won't tell you anything there, but you'll hear more soon. Months pass. You call again and everything stays vague. You have to turn in evidence, but you're not told which one. You do that nicely, but then you don't hear anything, months. Phone calls, pieces, everything. You get no clarity about when you can get a supplement, only that it may take a long time. You're gonna doubt yourself if you've done anything wrong at the host parents' office. And if you don't have a high income, you can't pay for months or even years of child care. And what did these parents do? They put the kids with family members. A number of people quit their jobs. A number of people could not handle it because they were getting recoveries of tens of thousands of euros and the objections were not dealt with in time. Five years later, after six sets of parliamentary questions, a report by the Ombudsman, a report by the Kinderombudsman and a debate that has been cancelled, I am standing here and I apologize to the Blast Service, because something turned out to be going on. The question here is whether sorry is enough. How do you say sorry to people who have been unable to earn income for years, who have been denied the right to participate in society through a paid job for years? Of course, combating fraud is of the utmost importance and a fraud investigation is not done in one day. A supplement can be stopped once, but these people were kept on the line for years before they heard what was going on. If the Secretary of State thinks that the child care allowance only affects the parents and not the children, I would still like to give a quote from a child's letter to the Children's Ombudsman: "My mother has become very sick and I am very sorry about that. My mom couldn't go to work anymore. She was always angry and started crying." First of all, I want to know from the Secretary of State how he's gonna make this right. Is he willing to have a conversation, personally and behind closed doors, with the parents sitting here who aren't here to hear what it was like to hear what happened here? And two. How are we gonna prevent this? Then I'd also like to know how long those blacklists lasted, because you could have been on a blacklist. It is good that there are monitoring lists for people who need extra checks, but this was not a monitoring list for people who needed extra checks. If you were on this list, you wouldn't be told why you insisted. It was a way to get into some kind of Bermuda triangle. The Tax Administration did not comply with the General Administrative Law, not with the General Law income-dependent schemes and not with the Childcare Supplement Act. As a result, these people didn't know where to go unless they hired a very expensive lawyer. Oh, that's what the IRS did. He's called on the state's attorney to sue some of these people if they were right by suing the Council of State. I'd like to have the accounts of that here today. The fact that other cases are still being brought before the Court cannot be a reason not to have them here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u7	Thank you. There's been an interruption by Mrs Leijten. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u8	Mr. Chairman. I see that Mr Omtzigt is incredibly high, and I fully understand that. What happened here is Kafka. It should not be in a rule of law that you can be blacklisted by means of automated selection, after which there is no possibility of appealing against it. Because these people had no rights, but it also went through automated selection. Doesn't Mr Omtzigt agree that we shouldn't want such an automatic selection, which means that people shouldn't want to be blacklisted? Doesn't he think that places on such a list should always be a human act?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u9	Mr President, I am going to give a precise answer and that is why it is going to take a little longer. The blacklists that existed here could not. I'm not saying that because of the automatic selection. I can imagine, for example, putting people who have not paid two or three attacks or so on a list and saying: I want to see some more evidence in advance. Such systems can occur at the Tax Office and it can also happen automatically if you have missed a form of payment a number of times. So what went wrong here wasn't that there was an extra check. It was also not that there was an extra check on someone who did nothing wrong afterwards, because that is the essence of the Tax Administration. What went wrong here is that the Tax Administration did not comply with the General Administrative Law Act, the Awir and the Childcare Allowance Act. The decisions were therefore not taken within the time limits in force, i.e. within three months. And people weren't told what they needed. I'd like to know exactly how many people did that happen. We only have the CAF-11 case here, but did this happen in the CAF-16 case? I don't call this song by accident. That's what we'd like to know. And how are these parents gonna get it straightened out?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u10	How it happened and how it is going to be corrected, I will go into all of that. But I'd like to come back to that automated selection that puts you on a blacklist. Of course, fraud must be investigated. Of course, there can be certain thresholds that will eventually put you on a list. Then it may be that the tax authorities say, "Hey, with that gentleman or lady, we need to be extra alert when there's contact. That makes sense. But isn't that always a human act? Surely you shouldn't let systems do that that can't account for any human aspect? For example, these systems look purely and only at deadlines or amounts. Isn't that how you end up in Kafka? There's got to be surveillance, right? Surely there must always be a human decision: this gentleman or lady has really crossed the border and is going to be on that blacklist?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u11	The problem is what happened on that blacklist. The problem is that decisions were not taken in time afterwards and people were not told what they could deliver. So I'm just one bit different from Mrs Leijten. I can imagine, for example, quite spontaneously, that anyone who has a child in child care abroad should also be covered by the Dutch child care allowance before anything is awarded. That would be an automatic procedure if you said: I live abroad and childcare is abroad. That could give you extra surveillance. The problem here is, what happens to that blacklist? I want to know from the Secretary of State: what was illegal about these blacklists that worked here? And what exactly were the schematics and working instructions that the IRS had with these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u12	Thank you. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u13	Did they really have the work instruction to keep these people on the leash? That is the question I would like answered. Mr. Chairman. It's hard to get compensation. That is why I ask the Secretary of State, in addition to the conversation, to talk to the Kinderombudsman and the Ombudsman to see if this has been dealt with properly. Mr. Chairman. There is also a group that has continued to work and raised objections. Those people won over 2014, because that strike was wrong. But they didn't get a supplement for 2015 and later, because they supposedly didn't ask the right question. While every working parent is entitled to child care allowance, these parents have worked and have been wrongly denied a supplement. Parents who, forced by the facts, have stopped working, are legally entitled to child care allowance for another three months. That's a thin start, but this could straighten out the Secretary of State. Is he willing to do that? So far, all claims for damages have been rejected. What can the Secretary of State do to alleviate the suffering? What is he going to do with parents who haven't worked for years, formally seen because they hadn't applied in time but they had no choice? Mr. Chairman. I will share with the Secretary of State my suspicions of the cause of what happened here. You have a host parents' office and underneath host parents and question parents. The Tax Office cannot see which parents are indirectly with which host parent agency, only with which host parent. If you have host parents who work for multiple agencies as a host parent, you run the risk that the benefits of another agency will be attributed to you and your asking parents' supplement will be stopped. Can the Secretary of State confirm if this happened? Wouldn't it be better to keep track of which question parents belong to which host parent agency? Finally, a request to the Secretary of State. We've had multiple files now. We have Rhinefarers who receive tens of thousands of euros after tax because their employer has cheated. Two people have already committed suicide because of the coercive attacks. We have the self-employed from whom the supplement was recovered when they received welfare benefits due to loan assistance. All the Law debt-reliefing natural persons pushed in. Personal bankruptcies and dramas. If you get stuck with the Tax Administration because there's something wrong with the regulations or the Tax Administration has the wrong work instruction, you can't get out. Does the Secretary of State want to have two independent people, a lawyer and someone who assists these people together, a social counsellor, take a look at what needs to change so that when something goes wrong with the Tax Office, which can always, doesn't last for years and doesn't get stuck with these people? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u14	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Westerveld van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am also speaking on behalf of the PvdA Group, which could not be here today but wanted to make a contribution. "We were in shock. We called the IRS a lot, but they didn't let go until suddenly we got a letter about the year 2013. This year, too, we had to pay back in full. Then we snapped and we didn't remember. This misery has continued until August 2018." This quote illustrates what has gone wrong with more parents: surcharges that have been stopped causing parents to unexpectedly pay back up to tens of thousands of euros, unclear information and a lack of self-reflective capacity in the Tax Administration. Then parents had to sue for a long time to get justice, often without a satisfactory solution. Families who desperately need these surcharges ran into the wall called Tax Administration. Mr. Chairman. What does this mean for the kids? They had to say goodbye to friends and friends with the host parents. They had to deal with a stressful situation at home and they suddenly couldn't go to the zoo or an amusement park because there was no money for it at home. Our first question to the Secretary of State is about the children. Is he prepared to better involve the child's interests in decisions on the cessation of child care payments, as the Children's Ombudswoman has already asked? If so, how is he going to do that? Mr. Chairman. When we read the letters from the Secretary of State, it seems as if everything has been resolved by now, but I get complaints about making up for €500 per six months. A parent said: "In the meantime, we have suffered from a burn-out resulting in depression. I haven't been able to work for months, and the kids were at home with a depressed mother. And this is what one wants to make up for with €500?" Does the Secretary of State understand the criticism of the handling? Does he consider this €500 to be a make-up or a large amount of compensation? Mr. Chairman. This parent isn't the only one. Are all parents who have been wrongly duped actually in the picture and, if so, have they all been given a fair chance to object? And how is it that we seem to be dealing with ghost parents, who actually don't exist because there are different numbers going around? Do we know how many parents are not applying for a childcare allowance for fear of another complicated procedure? Mr. Chairman. If the government makes such mistakes, then of course it's up to the government to make it right. Is the Secretary of State prepared to talk to these people individually, to inform them of what has happened to them and to ask how they are doing now? Does he then want to find a solution together with these people, so that they are satisfied and so that they do not have to sue again for months? Mr. Chairman. I would also like to know what this means for the host parents. Have there been more organizations turned upside down due to a government error? Do we know the number? And are host parent organisations also compensated in any way? Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State acknowledges the mistakes made and a new way of working has been announced, but that is not enough for the people who have now been hurt. The way in which the Tax Administration communicated is also wrong. Unfortunately, that is not just something of the past few years, but a recurring picture. Even now, parents are very often in the dark about why they have to pay child care payments on a regular basis, while nearly half of parents do so. Mr. Chairman. It is downright regrettable that documents have been withheld in court cases, that the Tax Administration has directed against rejecting objections and that the Court has not received a number of documents either. It is thanks to Mr Omtzigt's persistence that questions were finally answered. What does the Secretary of State think of this method? And how does he see it in the light of people's trust in the government? Can the Secretary of State respond to the criticism that the Tax Administration is interfering with court proceedings? Mr. Chairman. GroenLinks also sees a lack of structural solutions, because we hear similar stories about surcharges for years. This cabinet had the key to preventing such situations in the future. The solution is called direct financing. These are plans where childcare is directly financed by the government without the whole premium circus surrounding it. Those plans were at an advanced stage. In fact, a bill had already been written. But this cabinet pulled the plug there. For GroenLinks, that choice is incomprehensible. We would like to ask the Secretary of State if he agrees with us that some of these parents and children would not have been affected if we had had a system of direct funding. Finally, Mr President. A few weeks ago I stood here to debate mistakes made with the child-related budget. Today we are having another debate on mistakes made with the childcare allowance. The conclusion is that far too often things go wrong with the surcharges. That's gotta be better. Because if so many mistakes are made with these kinds of procedures, then government reflection fits in with the way we set up the system. I sincerely hope that this will be the last time we have to discuss these issues. GroenLinks also hopes that the cabinet will work on a structural solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u16	Thank you. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Leijten van de SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u17	Get blacklisted from the Tax Administration without knowing if you're being hunted down by the Tax Administration for years without being able to defend yourself. You'd think this would take place in dictatorships and not in a rule of law, but unfortunately. In 2013, the Combination Team Approach Facilitators gets the CAF, but we can also just turn it into CAFCA, as in Kafka, a host-parent agency in sight that might help with child care payment fraud. In 2014, this CAF decision on CAFCA may also be taken to stop the childcare allowance for 235 parents. Despite the fact that the parties concerned provide everything that is asked for, they are not told why it has been stopped and whether they have delivered the documents fully and properly. That's because they got blacklisted by an automated system when they didn't even know it. They couldn't get rid of it either. But that blacklist was a signal to the employees who spoke to these people, for example when they asked "what about this?" Or "where should I go?', To treat them like criminals. In 2016, it appears that there are still a lot of concerns about what happened in 2014. That's too long: two years in this CAFCA, with all the consequences. We have just heard from Mr Omtzigt and Mrs Westerveld. In 2017, the National Ombudsman presented a report. If the National Ombudsman is going to investigate, the signals must be very serious. Such an investigation often takes a while, because that is done very thoroughly. All the alarms have already gone off at the IRS. There's no other way. However, the Children's Ombudsman still needs to move. Many written questions need to be asked, in this case by Mr Omtzigt. People need to go to the media. They have to sell their troubles and their shame to get attention, because the government abandons them, because they have been put away as criminals via an automated system. There have been trials. Over and over again, the IRS appealed with expensive lawyers, and over and over again he lost. The Tax Administration has made efforts to withhold documents and to declare certain documents irrelevant. If you see all this in a row, then this is just a sham. We also need to know that there are people who have fought. Those people have all won, but they don't feel like a winner. But there are also people who couldn't do that, who have given in to the pressure. How do we deal with these people? Are they in sight, or are they all gone because these people don't complain? The Secretary of State came after long push and draw with apologies. It simply did not go well; people were wrongly on that list and objections remained for too long. You're supposed to apologize for that, not just in a note to the Chamber. The Secretary of State did even more; he ran all the files. But do people now know how things stand, or is going through the files mainly to cover the risks of the Tax Administration? Are the victims involved, too? Is there human contact? Is there a conversation, an apology? It is emphasised that the working method has already been changed in 2016 and apparently it was known at that time that this practice did not work properly and yet it was only in 2018, rather reluctantly, that there was something of an apology in the Chamber. That was after another lost trial at the Council of State. If an apology has been made and the service has been vetted, then you would think that the Secretary of State will also ensure openness. What happened? What did we learn? Is there anything going on with other Kafka stores? But, no, he's here discussing documents for confidential inspection of MPs. So I'm not gonna be a part of that. I'm not gonna take part in this hide-and-seek thing. To me, getting clean really means taking the lid off the cesspool, going through the shithole, emptying the cesspool and dumping the shithole so it can't happen again. But what's going on here? The lid is off, because it stinks, but the emptying does not happen or hardly happens, and if it does, then it must all remain secret. So how can we check that there is actually a dampening? The SP wants to see three things arranged as a result of this disarray. One: be honest and open about everything that has happened, including in other Kafka cases. Two, stop automated blacklists. Make sure that there are human assessments, where the people on such a blacklist know that as well as have access to appeals. Three, go round the table with the duped. So that means no more correspondence. Don't let people be numbers anymore. Look each other in the eye, make excuses and get real satisfaction, because Mrs Westerveld said it: with the concession that people are getting now, people really have the idea that they are getting tips. That can't be an apology, can it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u18	Thank you. I would like to give the floor to Mr Mulder of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u19	In many families, the childcare allowance has been stopped quite unjustly. What's been done to these families is horrible. Unfortunately, in the Netherlands, many people depend on fees, because otherwise they can't make ends meet. I am talking not only about the unemployed or the needy, but also about people who work, often with their partners. Two incomes are barely enough to make ends meet these days. In 2019, the Netherlands is a country where citizens are squeezed so that missing a single supplement is only possible for one supplement to affect the whole life of a family. It's also to drive me crazy. We do not tackle the real fraudsters in the Netherlands. We don't maintain, often very consciously. See the Participation Act, see the language requirement. So, for example, the Dutch pay for Poland's WW fraud, for Turkey's assistance fraud and for Bulgarians who abuse the Netherlands as an ATM. If Brussels gets its way, the whole of Europe will be able to collect benefits here. Having worked for one month in the Netherlands is then enough to live as a king in your own country with a Dutch benefit. The ordinary citizen can pay for all that. As a result, the purchasing power in the Netherlands is so poor. And as a result, many families are completely dependent on surcharges. And that is why it is completely unacceptable that this supplement can be taken away. Mr. Chairman. It is not just mistakes that have been made in this file, but the rights of citizens have been deliberately soldered. The PVV wants citizens who are cheating to be dealt with as hard as they can. But this tough approach must also be applied to failing tax authorities, for example. If in the real world, the world out there, something similar to what you read in this file would happen, those responsible would be dealt with. I'm asking the Secretary of State what happened in this file. How did he intervene? Which directors were fired by this Secretary of State? Or were they allowed to leave the building quietly through the back door with a golden handshake? Locking up, Mr. Chairman. The PVV wants this Secretary of State to tackle the real fraudsters, the criminals who on a large scale cheat on benefits, people who come here to be pathetic and keep their hands on things while they sometimes own houses and pieces of land abroad. Take them, not the ordinary citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u20	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Azarkan van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Tax Administration has put parents in an impossible position, in great financial difficulties and in long-term uncertainty because of this unsophisticated approach. Those were the words of the Ombudsman in a destructive report on ending the childcare allowance for 235 families. Mr. Chairman. That's an understatement. Whole families were brought to the financial and psychic brink of collapse when the Supplements department started asking back tens of thousands of euros. Most families couldn't afford that. There's been an incredible amount of misery and suffering. People have been actively resisting. There was a deliberate rejection of the applications. Letters have been sent intentionally in holiday periods. Objections were dealt with as late as possible. People weren't told why they were on the list and what documents to submit. Mr. Chairman. There is only one judgment here: this is a bureaucratic crime. How is this possible? On what information did the government act? It's the government at its worst. This is not the service government that DENK has in mind. The Secretary of State has rightly apologized for this unimaginable, sad and sad state of affairs. It had to be after the destructive ruling of the Council of State. On October 11th, the Chamber received the apology letter. Rarely does the government indicate that it has not done so well. I quote from the letter. "I apologize to the relevant parents and your Chamber." "The performance of the Supplements department was not good and not careful." "The human measure is lost in sight." "The methodology of the Supplements section was not transparent." "The termination of the surcharges was not sufficiently justified." "It was unclear for parents what evidence they had to provide." "The provision of information to citizens and to the Chamber has failed." Mr. Chairman. After such a heavy deep-by-the-dust letter, you expect the Tax Administration to put all this in order and to proactively and generously compensate the people. But none of that is true. The follow-up measures, handling and compensation are in no way consistent with the conclusions of that letter. No compensation shall be paid for the damage suffered. People had to quit their jobs. There's been unrest. Kids aren't well enough. There's been tension within families. People had to wait endlessly for their objection to be dealt with. And the Secretary of State mentioned it in his letter about a $500 tip. They get someone if the treatment lasted longer than two years. Afterwards, he wants to make an amount of €500 per six months available because of the breach of the reasonable period of time. Mr. Chairman. Words and deeds are in stark contrast to each other here. If you have been deliberately deceived for years and have been led on by officials of the Tax Office and have suffered pain, then this Secretary of State will give you €0.80 per day for the legal and psychological damage suffered. Scandalous! Well, in words, confess your mistakes, but in deeds, people ship off again with a tip. Those people will have to sue themselves if they want compensation. DENK doesn't want words. Would you cut the fine words and come up with some action and a substantial amount of money? The key question is: is the Secretary of State prepared to come across the bridge in a humane and financially generous manner, or does he allow this to happen again in lengthy legal proceedings? Can the suffering of some of these people, and also of many who look at home, finally be ended instead of being prolonged each time? Mr. Chairman. The DENK Group wants three concrete things. We want complete openness and insight into the files. Is it true that these files are now under lock and key and are only handed over and returned at the end of the day? Human action and generous compensation is the second. Finally, we want the establishment of an independent committee of wise men who can make binding rulings on the compensation to be paid. Is the Secretary of State prepared to appoint and set up an independent Committee of Wise Men which could issue binding opinions? Or is he willing to talk to the parents in another proactive way and not let people come to the government? Those people have fallen short from the Tax Office and must now be compensated again. Mr. Chairman. Just a few more questions. Citizens are blacklisted. How do you know you're on that list if you don't belong on it? How many civilians are on these so-called surveillance lists? How long do we have civilians on that? How do they get off again? Are there any established rules for that? Are there deadlines for that? Can citizens object to such a list? And the most important question is, how do you get off a list like that? That really needs to be made transparent. I'd like a response. Finally, Mr President. There must be a restoration of confidence in the government from these citizens. The state should not oppress, intimidate and psychically hurt people, but serve the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u22	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Lodders of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u23	Mr. Chairman. In 2014, the Tax Administration stopped the childcare allowance of more than 200 parents for suspected fraud. For these parents there was a period of uncertainty. Some parents are suffering the consequences of this to this day. I've spoken to a number of people. It is hard to receive a letter stating that you are no longer entitled to child care allowance from one day to the next, while you are convinced that you have managed things well, if you hear that you have to pay big sums of money, if you do not give the Tax Administration at home if you have questions or if you have a request for a refund scheme, or if you have to deliver documents for the umpteenth time that have not been received. The same applies to the agencies that have been affected in this matter. People have gotten into trouble because of the service's actions. I've spoken to people who are still suffering from health problems. Several examples have already been mentioned. There are people who are in debt restructuring because they have made high debts, and people who have had to give up their business or have lost their jobs. That is a great personal distress. I can imagine people losing confidence. That is right, because there has been a strong response, the settlement has taken too long and the communication has proved to be inadequate. This is also apparent from the ruling of the Council of State, which has held that there has been unlawful and careless action. But other reports have also been cited by previous speakers. Mr. Chairman. We are now five years after date and several questions have been asked by colleagues. I am not going to repeat those questions; I am going to add a few more. Can the Secretary of State indicate where we stand on this file today? Does the Secretary of State have any insight into the handling of the various individual files of people who have been wrongly in trouble? My question therefore focuses not only on the parents, but also on those entrepreneurs who, for example, have been a child-care worker and who have suffered as parents suddenly no longer receive a supplement. Have these matters been properly and humanely resolved? What steps have been taken to prevent an issue like this in the future? Several bodies have pointed out that communication was inadequate. What steps have been taken to streamline the communication and handling of questions and requests? On the blacklist, Mrs Leijten asked a number of questions. If you come up with that, I think you have the right to at least be informed about it in a good way if you have any questions about it. So I'd like a response from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u24	I don't think anyone in this room will say that you shouldn't signal and detect fraud. It may be possible that someone goes so often or so seriously wrong that a signal is given, in the sense of: look at this person extra or ask for additional data. But here I understand that people are computerized on that blacklist, without human action. Wouldn't it be better if we built in a human act? I, too, have asked for an appeal, so you can get off. I agree with that, but that automated step with which it just rolls out of the systems, which actually makes no one knows and no one can control it, then you can't get it reported, and then you can't get it on appeal either, you should actually get out of it. How does Mrs Lodder feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u25	I think it is a step too much for us to judge. At the time of detection of fraud or suspicion of fraud, the Tax Administration or, in this case, the Supplements Section must be empowered to act. Much more important to me is that, at the time of a signal in this case: if you get a letter and you call the IRS, you will be properly spoken and know about it. I do not think that is the case, given the stories I have heard personally. But as far as I'm concerned, we're really going too deep into matter right now when we say that selecting people can only be done manually. You asked that question. I am therefore going to listen with interest to the reply of the Secretary of State, but I think that follow-up step is much more important.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u26	I can imagine that certain risks are emerging from the systems, because there is just a lot of digitally available at the Tax Office. But you're still gonna have to look human at that. Here people were suspicious; it wasn't really like that yet and yet they were on that list. Because they were on that list, they were actually sent from the locker to the wall, in the sense of: don't make them wiser than they are, because we want and will take them. 'Cause that's what did it. The Secretary of State also said that the detection was actually a little too aggressive. Instead of automatically getting on a list like this, I think it would be better if there was a test by someone, by a file holder, who says: we should wait here for just a moment; maybe we should make a phone call before this person is in the system as a criminal. I hope the Secretary of State will go along with that, or else you'll get kafka.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u27	Let us at least await the answers of the Secretary of State, but I repeat my plea, also in the direction of the Secretary of State: at the moment when people have received a letter because something has been found or because there is a suspicion, they must be able to ask the right questions. They have to get the right people on the phone and they don't have to be sent in several times with a brat in the reed. I also spoke to someone who had to deliver 80 pages up to 4 times, 2 times ordinary and 2 times registered when it was lost. Those are not examples I would like to see.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u28	There is also an interruption by Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u29	Mr Lodders of the VVD also spoke nicely about the distressing situation of the parents concerned, and also the children. How does it assess the compensation, the financial compensation of around €0.80 per day and €500 for the first two years? How do you view that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u30	Several colleagues raised this point. I can't relate the damage of individual people to the amount. I have heard some poignant stories about this, so it is right that you have brought this forward. I believe that Mrs Leijten did the same. I'm not going so far as to say it has to be many times higher or different. I'd like to have a reaction to that first. I would also like to know what is going on with the individual handling of people who have been wrongly in trouble. I just asked the same question. Again, as far as I am concerned, it applies not only to the parents, but also to the people who ran a day's stay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u31	Now it's getting a little confusing. It's holly or calf. As a VVD you can keep a wonderful story about the situation and also speak on behalf of the parents about how distressing it is, but in the end both the human measure of the treatment from the Tax Administration, namely proactively seek out the people, and the level of the amount or people get some satisfaction. I find it extremely disappointing that Mr Lodders of the VVD speaks nicely about how painful it is, but in fact she says that she herself cannot determine whether it should be more than €0.80 a day. I'm really sad about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u32	And do you have a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u33	I note that my question is whether she would support my motion calling on an independent committee to consider what that amount of damage should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u34	I am always used to asking a number of questions in the first term and getting an answer to them. I want to do that anyway. It is by no means my intention to keep a nice story here, because I think it is all serious enough. I finish my questions and I am almost at the end of my speech. After that, I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State about what's going on with these individual cases. Mr. Chairman. I do not think that communication has yet been discussed. What steps have been taken to prevent the issue in the future? Several bodies have referred to communication, including the Ombudsman. What steps have been taken to streamline the communication and handling of questions and requests? Can the Secretary of State also confirm that this will be handled properly if these people come to the phone? Another question that has been raised in recent months is whether other dossiers have the same treatment. Mr Omtzigt also asked for this in written questions. Can the Secretary of State be open about this? I will conclude, Mr President, with a bit of a general point which I shall mention here. I think the dilemma is finding the balance. The tax authorities must, of course, ensure that taxes are collected and pay supplements if people apply and are entitled to them. Those who do not take it so closely with rules should be tackled hard. On this issue, the Tax Administration has clearly been overstepping its agenda. With all the personal suffering that has been done to a large part of these people, it is important that that right balance is sought, as is the human measure, as has already been said by others. If there is any doubt about fraud, there must be investigation and enforcement, but people also have the right to receive answers to the questions they have.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u35	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van Weyenberg of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As of 1 September 2014, the childcare allowance of a large group of families has been discontinued due to suspicions of abuse. Later it appeared that in many cases a careless and unjust decision was taken. The fact that we talk about this extensively four and a half years later depends on the fact that mistakes have been made by the government, more specifically by the Tax Administration. The National Ombudsman concluded in 2017 with a number of very sharp conclusions that powerplay was not fair play by the Tax Administration. Mr. Chairman. The betrayed trust in the government is also reflected in the reactions of the injured. For example, the late treatment of objections left families in uncertainty for a long time. Families got into financial trouble. If there were any questions, there was no proper contact with the IRS. A lot of my colleagues have said that. In practice, the childcare allowance is there to help people combine work and care for the children. It is therefore harsh that the problems have caused parents to quit their jobs or children to have to worry about their parents in particular, as the Children's Ombudsman also noted. That's why the Children's Ombudsman was very critical. The same applies to many colleagues. In fact, Mr Omtzigt deserves special mention. Mr. Chairman. It's a good thing the Secretary of State just admitted the mistake fairly. That was high time. Apologies have been made and measures have been put in place to restore confidence and prevent these problems in the future. I would like to hear the state of play of the four specific measures announced by the Secretary of State in October. I understand very well that families who have had to wait a long time and who have sometimes gone through very complicated bureaucratic procedures have already been called kafkaesk, do not receive such recovery measures and excuses directly with open arms. In this context, I found it striking that the Secretary of State indicated in his letter of September last year that the Tax Administration is now committed to prevention rather than cure. D66 wholeheartedly supports the efforts to improve services in this way, but this raises the question of whether the Secretary of State agrees with my group that, given the mistakes in the past, attention to curing old wounds is and remains very important. A number of colleagues have also asked questions about this. What role does the Secretary of State see, perhaps for himself, to see how the damaged confidence in the government can be restored to these people? Mr. Chairman. As Mrs Lodder has already done, I think it is good to consider today the tension between the harsh, in this case too harsh, fraud approach and the human dimension. Five years ago, we also had a debate here on fraud, not on too hard an approach, but on a lack of action. In this debate on Bulgarian fraud, we all spoke very strongly, including my group, about the importance of tackling fraud and the need for teething. The approach had to be firm, focused on action, bold and with pace. Let that have just become the task of the Combiteam Approach Facilitators in 2013. We all want a tough approach to fraud, but have we really taken sufficient account of the human dimension, the risk of ever larger and coarser safety nets and perhaps including people who are not to blame? Did we freak out in there? What's the balance in that? I think that as a chamber we should look at ourselves as well. I'd like to ask the Secretary of State to reflect on this. How does he see that balance? Mr. Chairman. The combi team could be performing experimentally, is on the job. But how is experiments, which I am often in favour of, ensured that you do not experiment with the legality of tackling fraud? Because I don't think there's room for experimentation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u37	A very brief interruption by Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u38	I think the Secretary of State quite rightly points out in his letter of apology that fraud detection was seen as a high priority at that time. D66 says that's why the Chamber should look at itself. But can you state whether it has been said in the parliamentary debates that, in the case of fraud detection, we should let go of people's rights and constitutional principles, such as the right to justice and the right to appeal if you are wrongly listed? Or has that been a sense of duty from the service that we didn't know? For you are acting as if we are a little guilty, but I believe that asking for a good approach is not to say: 'Treat everyone with a stain but as a criminal'.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u39	I fully agree with Mrs Leijten. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that this was a time when we, also because of the Bulgarian fraud, spoke loudly here. This means that we have also used a context of'strong, tighter, tighter'. I also have to think of an earlier example, the fraud approach to social security, where we had to take steps back later. And of course, no, that execution was just wrong and against the law. And when it went wrong, it didn't do the right thing. But I think we should be aware of the dilemma, nothing about those mistakes, how we secure that balance here. I'm just gonna take the Fraud Act into social security. It was later watered down by the Chamber because people who did not deliberately screw up were treated as frauds. I know we both do not want that, and I am just saying that I think this point requires reflection of ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u40	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u41	I also find it a little strange that, while we are simply finding out here that citizens have not been treated properly, it is in one way or another than the Chamber. I think it is quite right that there are very big words here when it comes to fraud, and I do not want to take back an inch. My colleague from D66 should do the same, including, for example, those municipalities where D66 prevents the maintenance of a language requirement and assistance fraud. That's where the misery begins. That is where the rotten thing is and therefore, Mr President, much louder words need to be said here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u42	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u43	Whether he wants to take that too, instead of holding a mirror in front of us. He's gonna have to look at it himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u44	But I think I started to say that at that time, I think we were also in a social situation with the debate, here in the Chamber too, of'strong, tighter, tighter'. I am not taking away the mistakes that have been made, but I do think it is important to look at each other, even if we are making laws, for example, if we have a sufficient human dimension in our eyes. I am only taking the Fraud Act into social security, a law that was simply democratic, after a debate by the Chamber, but which we later found to have worked out in practice in such a way that people who had made a mistake were treated as fraud. We've changed that. I think that's wise. To be honest, I think a little reflection is only sensible and I think I started by talking about my own group's input in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u45	I find it truly appalling what Mr Van Weyenberg of D66 is doing. It is about the wrongly recovered childcare allowance, about leaving people in uncertainty for five years, about the fact that some of those people are here, watching them at home and seeing how they speak here and how Bulgarian fraud is being brought into play. There was a need for strict action. Mr President, none of this applies to these people. I say to Van Weyenberg through you: these people have been fighting for five years. They didn't get the documents they requested. At some point, the IRS realized they were sending these people into the woods, consciously. There has been no real fraud on the road for a long time. And it turns out it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u46	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u47	My question is not only: how can Mr Van Weyenberg bring this up when it was clear at some point, rather early on in the dossier, that a number of things were not going well?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u48	To be honest, I think Mr Azarkan is a little faint, because I think I have started with a lot of the points that have gone completely wrong here, which have made people the victims, who have not been able to do anything about it, who have not been able to turn to the government either. That's what I started. I have said this in detail, and I fully agree with you, with Mr Azarkan. But my point is that in tackling fraud widely, including as a political body, including as a chamber, we should look critically at the fact that we wanted to play in our wishes when this was going to happen, there was really a big debate going on, and after the Bulgarian fraud, we didn't go crazy as a Chamber either. I think that confirms precisely that innocent people have been the victims of this. In my view, that is precisely a confirmation of a point on which I think Mr Azarkan and I fully agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u49	Thank you. Mr Azarkan, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u50	There are two things mixed that cannot be mixed together. This approach, implemented by the Tax Administration, does not have much to do with that very strict approach. The question to date is on what basis and on what signals these people have been blacklisted. Where has the Chamber said that you have to fight people for a long time, that you have to say to people...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u51	That's not what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u52	That's what you're suggesting, Mr. Van Weyenberg. You're suggesting that...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u53	That is what you put in my mouth; that is quite another thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u54	No, you're suggesting this was necessary, because at that time there was a lot to do in society about how to deal with fraud. But people have been deliberately obstructed. People received a letter in vacation time stating that they had three weeks to respond, while the IRS knew. Those are really bad gigs. The fact that Mr Van Weyenberg of D66 brings this up unnecessarily hurts all those victims.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u55	Mr Azarkan is really trying to put words in my mouth. He'll cut a nice movie of it in no time. But the bottom line is, I say here that people are victims. I'm just talking about the freaking out approach where things go wrong. Of course we're talking about that. But then I say that we should also look at ourselves and the tone that we have in how we deal with fraud. I think that, quite frankly, is a confirmation of the suffering that has been done to people, and I do not think that it is being undermined at all, even though Mr Azarkan is trying to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u56	There is also an interruption by Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u57	Many words have already been said about the way in which the Tax Administration has been dealt with. But what is also a problem in this case is the incredibly complex system, which puts us in a situation where almost half of the people applying for child care payments have to pay back afterwards. So the system is incredibly complicated and very difficult to fathom. The direct financing bill has been withdrawn. I ask Mr Van Weyenberg how he looks at such a proposal, so in fact the proposal to simplify the system so as to prevent people from subconsciously misreading things.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u58	I don't know if such a system would have prevented this. I think that people might have noticed later that they would have wanted to recover. But I totally agree with you that we need to see how things can be simpler. I have strongly endorsed the aims of that law. It has also been said: shouldn't you look at the annual income of two years ago, so that you don't have all those mutations that make people face recovery? In my view, this legislative proposal concluded that it would lead to enormous implementation risks. We've seen before on another project that it went completely wrong. A lot of people with a pgb were the victims of that. My summary was that the goal was shared, but that we were too afraid in the execution that it would go wrong and that a lot of people would fall victim to it. But I fully agree with Mrs Westerveld that the rules we now have are extremely complex. It depends very much on whether you fill in the good things and whether you pass on a change in your income on time, and that makes people vulnerable. So every workable way of simplification is greeted with great cheer by my group and also by Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u59	I find that an interesting answer, because there is a proposal for direct financing. We have already discussed this in an earlier debate in the Chamber. In any case, we are not yet clear on why that proposal has been withdrawn. This probably has to do with the government's fear that the execution will go wrong. But is Mr Van Weyenberg prepared to think with us about how we can make the whole system simpler for parents? Then perhaps we can ask the Cabinet to look again at the objections of the Council of State and to come up with a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u60	The Committee on Finance and, in my view, Chamberwide have asked the Secretary of State: can we not take steps towards simplification, not just the childcare allowance but also other allowances? So it's a little wider than just the childcare allowance. I know that the Secretary of State is now having a major investigation into this, precisely in order to achieve the objective that Mrs Westerveld is asking for. Moreover, I fully agree that Mrs Westerveld is asking the question: if you are stuck in the system, can you find a good place at the moment? Mrs Lodders also asked a question about the hundreds of families who didn't even know where to find them. I would also like to ask the Secretary of State: should we be able to make that easier? The UWV has a Kafka team; that's what it's called there I believe in popularity. When things get very complicated and different departments get involved, the team takes the lead, so that people are not sent from the cabinet to the wall. Is that something that might also serve as inspiration for the Tax Administration? I know this is a different type of case, but I think we all want people who are stuck to go somewhere and not send the same pieces up to four times. Mr. Chairman. In that same context, I'm also looking into what's going on with the other cases of this team. Are there really no signs that large-scale groups of people have been caught up there by an ex-post enforcement of fraud? Did the Secretary of State ask that out in his organization? Has he been in contact with the Ombudsman, for example? Have other projects led to groups of victims? Can the Secretary of State tell us more about that? How do we more broadly guarantee the human dimension, regardless of whether it is a very complicated case, for people who say: I want to follow the rules, but I find it very complicated and I just get stuck? I know we have the tax phone. Those people do a lot of good work. But have we secured the human measure in execution, even wider than the Tax Administration, sufficiently in our public execution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u61	Thank you. The Secretary of State has indicated that he needs about 20 minutes to prepare himself. I'm suspending the meeting until about four o'clock.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u62	I ask Members to take their place so that I can give the floor to the Secretary of State for his contribution in the first term. I ask him how he built his speech. I noticed that there was a clear common thread in Members' contributions. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u63	Thank you, Mr President. We have just listened to a firm contribution from the Chamber on a case where, as was rightly pointed out, a lot has already been written about it and questions have been answered. I can only say that I fully understand the tone of the Chamber and take it upon myself. Today, I will answer the questions that have been asked and on which there are sometimes no satisfactory answers to be given and, hopefully, some. Today it is about the childcare allowance and specifically the case CAF-11 and everything that went wrong there. In my speech, I will first of all tell you where we stand. Where are we from? Why have they been harrowing? I shall then turn to a number of questions concerning the existence of monitoring lists. What's going on? Questions have been asked about the costs of the state's attorney. In addition, other questions have been asked in the run-up to the process, which I would like to comment on. Since we have postponed this debate for us a number of times, I should like to explain why this is the case. The case was born a little longer ago and has dragged for far too long. That's why we're still talking about it today. It is clear from a list in the letter which I wrote to the Chamber and which was read by Mr Azarkan that a great deal has gone wrong in the execution of this case. Mr Van Weyenberg and others pointed out that at the time there was a kind of political and social context in which the fight against fraud was used as a tough and robust instrument. There was too much use at the time in various areas, especially in these CAF-11 cases. As a result, the payments to host parents who were affiliated to a host parent's office concerned were discontinued. I indicated in the letter that that was wrong. That shouldn't have happened. What could have happened was a suspension, but here it has been decided to stop everything wrongly at once. That's not the end of it. Parents were then not adequately helped by the Tax Administration. New applications for a childcare allowance have remained for far too long and parents, if they had to deliver documents, are still not sufficiently informed about what they were doing. The combination of these points and a very low level of pro-active action by the Tax Office..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... These conclusions were shared not only today but also earlier by the Council of State, the National Ombudsman and the Children's Ombudsman in 2017 and 2018. For all this inconvenience, this whole process, I have therefore sincerely apologized to all the parents involved, the host parents' office, the lawyer, and also to the Chamber. That wasn't an excuse like I didn't want to get my feet over that line, because it really was a heartfelt apology. Things have really gone wrong here on everything and everything. The apology was heartfelt and it still is. I also immediately concluded that the self-learning capacity of the Supplements Service was too limited at that time. This has also led to the fact that it has always taken too long for us to take these satisfactory actions at the time of the detection of errors. Mr Omtzigt has already asked a number of questions about this in the past, for example in what order it went exactly wrong. I can repeat my previous letters once again, but I was actually trying to make it clear by my summary just now how I stand and that I am not going to take back any of the elements we have mentioned. Those are all elements where we feel that it really, really, really didn't go well. So I won't. I think it is particularly important that this is also one of the points that I mentioned in my letter, that we should prevent it from happening again after we have found it. And this practice has been discontinued somewhere in 2016. It's bad enough for that whole group of parents who have been mistreated, but how do we know for sure that it won't happen again in other groups? That is why I also announced a number of improvement measures in four areas to ensure that we do not end up in the same situation again. I have also described this extensively in my letters. I understand very well with this reply to Mrs Lodder's remark that this has lost a lot of people trusting the government and trusting in the way they are served by the Tax Administration. That, I think, is quite right. At the moment when the balance was lost between tackling the evildoers on the one hand and protecting the people who had no right to such treatment on the other, it really went wrong. We've heard the stories here, and I know them, of course. So I know that if that happens to you, nothing can really be concluded except that it makes sense that these people lost their trust. Again, what happened is not good. It cannot, it must not and the best way to regain confidence is to build a robust Tax Service. The steps we have indicated that we will take will follow. I also understand that regaining trust takes time, and so does the use of improvement measures and their effects.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u64	I was just checking to see if you were done with the block about where we are right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u65	I was going to do the improvement measures now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u66	Then I guess it's good to give room for interruptions now. First of all, I give the floor to Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u67	In this approach to detect fraud, without you actually having a real work instruction, at least the human dimension was not paramount, let me put it very euphemistically for a moment. But that was the moving space of that combination team. That's stopped, because it just went over the edges there. The combination informed us on 20 November of where we are now. That letter states that there is a review of current cases. Are there still procedures going on? Is that really gonna happen at the CAF-11?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u68	On the point where we stand, I wanted to come back shortly after I explained the improvement measures. I think it is important that we give it up again. But I promise Mrs Leijten to come back to this point. The answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u69	Would it be okay if the Secretary of State went into that later? I can see that it is. Thank you. I also see an interruption by Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u70	I am also very curious, because a number of people indicate that things from 2013 and 2015 are still open. I hope to get an answer to the question of how he will do so as soon as possible. I also asked another question, namely whether the Secretary of State is prepared to talk to some of these parents within two weeks, so that he has a good idea of what exactly went wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u71	I have also prepared a number of answers for this. I understand everyone wants to get to their point, but I'm also trying to build it up a little bit: where are we coming from and where are we going? This includes the question of both Members of Parliament about the human dimension and what we do with it. I'd like to come back to that in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u72	Maybe it's okay, I'll take a look at you, too, Mr. Omtzigt, that the Secretary of State continues with his speech. After that, there's plenty of room for interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u73	Sure. Once again, in order to prevent this from happening in the future, as you know, there are four areas where we want to take action. First of all, I have given instructions to draw up all the procedures for the working instructions for steering and accountability information. In this way, I and your Chamber can be held accountable. I couldn't do that in the past. In addition, two EDP auditors in 10 million Supplements documents checked whether there was any further information to be found in the court cases, because that was also a problem. Information documents, which may not give much new insight into the process, but should have been included in the procedural documents, have not been provided by the service. I'd like to avoid that, too. Apart from the fact that a number of pieces came back, we also requested 10 million additional documents to see if there was anything to be found in them. I have asked the national attorney to re-assess relevant documents and to proactively consider whether we should not apply a more generous provision. I'll tell you about that, too. The idea that the country's attorney was on the sidelines to narrow down those who had already suffered from this situation is a really wrong idea. We have just asked the national attorney to ensure that it was certain that the same mistakes were not made during a re-evaluation and would still be rejected. We have asked the national attorney to look again and again at whether, when it comes to individual court cases, for example, more documents should be added to the case documents before the courts and to deal with them generously. In addition, there I will be a little bit more detailed on the issue of the right to pay a material and intangible compensation to the parents involved. The last of the measures we have proposed is that we want a better technical embedding in the strengthening so that the problems that have arisen, even in the courtroom, can no longer arise in this way. This is really important to improve the tax administration's supervisory strategy in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u74	Mr Omtzigt, on this part.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u75	One paragraph back, Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State said he apologized to the host parents' office. That wasn't me yet. What did he apologize to the host parents' office for, and when did that happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u76	In my opinion, Mr Omtzigt may think that I did not do so six times in that previous letter, as in individual conversations alongside my letters, that we deeply regret the way things are going, and I believe that this has not only been transferred to parents, but also to the host parents' office.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u77	I would like to hear in second term when that has happened, because this is quite new.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u78	That's good. Mr. Chairman. In short, I regret the way things are going, but I am also confident that the measures we have now taken in the case of Supplements will ensure that the problems of the past will not occur again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u79	I'll see if you're at the end. I understand that the MPs are eager to ask a number of questions. Are you done with the block of improvement measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u80	Let me say yes, because it's finally coming together. I wanted to talk about the objections now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u81	Thank you. Mr Azarkan will have the floor first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u82	The Secretary of State just indicated that there have been material and intangible damages. I was just curious about that immaterial compensation. What does it look like?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u83	I'll get back to you on that. I think you've already named it. That was about the $500 per six months.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u84	Let the Secretary of State come back to this later, otherwise there will be a discussion. Do you mind if the Secretary of State comes back to that later, Mr. Azarkan?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u85	Let me get this straight, Mr. Chairman. It was, in fact, material and intangible compensation. I did not understand "indemnification for intangible and material damage suffered," but "material compensation." I'd like to know what that is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u86	The Secretary of State has indicated that he will return to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u87	The Secretary of State now comes to the review of current appeals? Or is that point done with this too?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u88	No, I've gotten to that now. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Leijten and Mr Omtzigt asked: how is it going to deal with the parents who have unjustly withdrawn their objection? That is one part of this point. As I have already mentioned in your Chamber, Supplements have re-evaluated the substance of all the cases that have been completed at that time. That is, I think, an answer to Mrs Leijten's question. Moreover, it does not matter whether a parent withdrew his objection or whether he or she did not even object. But all citizens who have objected have received a letter. Then it was asked whether it still matters whether the parents withdrew their objection by telephone or in writing. I think this was a question from Mr Omtzigt. The answer is: it makes no difference, because all cases already completed have been re-evaluated. I say again: it does not matter whether that objection was withdrawn or whether no objection had been raised. I expected Mrs Leijten to intervene here, Mr President. But I can tell from her that that is not the case. I'm moving on. I think Mrs Westerveld of GroenLinks asked if the Secretary of State would have withheld documents in that trial. That was about the little bit we just came back on. After the ruling of the Supreme Court, why weren't all the relevant documents directly shared with the parents? In the CAF-11 cases, it was established that the findings were related to the cases. These should therefore have been provided immediately. That is, I think, also acknowledged. Other pieces, such as the phone notes we talked about earlier, were in a somewhat greyer area. However, I have given the order to give the documents in all these concrete matters. And I must also say that in general I am in favour of transparency, and therefore of a generous provision of the documents. However, a selection will always have to be made, with a difference of understanding of the relevance of a particular piece. But in that case, it's up to the judge to give the final judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u89	My question was, are there any pending cases? There's a judgment on that child care allowance. People are appealing against that. It's just going through to the Council of State, by the state attorney, who has to look at these matters generously. My question was, how many more cases are there? And how many cases are still under way?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u90	As far as I know, business is still going on. Ah, I'm getting the exact amount right now. There are still 14 appeals pending. These are six cases in court and eight in the Council of State. When will these cases be concluded? All these cases are under the courts, and it's up to the judge to make a final ruling. I cannot influence the time limit within which these matters will be concluded, let alone allow me to make a ruling on them. I know that a date for a hearing is still to be scheduled for seven cases at the moment. We have been asked: will there perhaps be more cases? Are there any further requests for revision pending, and objections to the final calculations issued? The answer is: if parents disagree with the outcome of these proceedings, they may decide to appeal to the court. And I read further here: There has also been a ruling in a civil case with the agency in question. The court concludes that Supplements did not act unlawfully.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u91	The Secretary of State began by saying that he understands the tone of the Chamber, because the case is actually so poignant. Those are words from himself. What I find so distressing is that five years have passed and procedures are still dragging. So the Tax Office still sees people as criminals, as frauds, and that is discussed in court. And there are even other procedures that still have to be assessed by the Tax Administration. When I hear it like that, I don't think there's a human dimension in it at all. Then there hasn't actually been a re-evaluation, has there? Then you should have just sat down and wondered about every case: are we going through with this or are we not going through with this? You still let people fight something in a court of law against a government that has apologized. Then where is the human measure? I ask the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u92	Again, I am not taking anything away from my first intervention, even if it turns out that there are still issues where there can be a difference of opinion between what the Tax Administration wants and what someone who feels wrongly treated wants. The search for human size is extremely important. I'm gonna say more about that in a minute. But there will also be cases where there is still a difference of opinion as to whether or not one was entitled to a supplement. There are cases where people say: I really think that the Tax Office has acted unlawfully here. They'll bring that to justice. I was just trying to say that there have also been a number of cases before the courts. There was another civil case recently. The judge then concluded that the Tax Administration did not act unlawfully. But that doesn't change my desire to ensure that we address these people in a proper and honest manner, even if they turn out to be wrong afterwards. It doesn't really matter. We'll agree on that. But no matter what happens and how annoying the case may be, we cannot allow people who were not entitled to it and who we really believe were not entitled to it to do so. If Mrs Leijten so requests, that would be a question for the service to do extrajudicial things, and I think that is exactly what we do not want to do. But we should not forget that the human dimension is important here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u93	In the letter of 20 November, it is so beautiful on page 3 under point 2: re-evaluation of ongoing appeal cases. The only thing that's been re-evaluated by the state's attorney is whether there were enough pieces in the file. There has been no re-evaluation in the sense of: are we going to continue with this? These are cases in which the tax authorities report to the Council of State because they do not agree with the outcome of the ordinary court. The IRS has been chasing an ordinary family for five years. There has been no re-evaluation of those cases, so don't write it down, as I say to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u94	He's a dead man. I just explained that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u95	I'm gonna take a look at Mrs. Westerveld. No? Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u96	Now it's really bar. We can also stop the debate for a while. Then you can talk to the parents first and then we can have this debate in a few weeks' time. The country's attorney's intention was initially to see if the right pieces had been delivered. Then we said, "Good thing the country's attorney is being deployed." But then the state attorney was deployed to get all these procedures going. These are people who have been waiting for years and can't move on with their lives and their work history, because they don't know if they can rely on the Tax Office. Their trust in the Tax Administration has been violated in such a way, by the warrants, by having to repay it and by being put back at the minimum level while this was not right, that these people feel intimidated by the Tax Administration. You may look at me, but you may also look at the people in the gallery, as I say to the Secretary of State. You can look at them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u97	Mr. Overzigt...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u98	They're over there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u99	Mr. Overzigt...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u100	Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u101	I'd like to go through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u102	Mr. Chairman. They may be looked at, because they feel intimidated. An attorney of €300 per hour, sometimes even two or three, was placed in court opposite them for a child care supplement case. Those country lawyers are meant for serious criminals. So now we're gonna get the re-evaluation and we're gonna have that conversation? Those are two clear questions that lie before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u103	I understand the emotion and the anger. I just recognized him. But the idea that this is now being bluntly celebrated as if I wouldn't be willing to look at people when it comes to what mistakes have been made... In about the first few weeks after I started as Secretary of State, I started this case and I made sure we're where we are. That there are still all kinds of discussions about that, that people feel uncomfortable and that we need to engage in the conversation... Yeah, we'll have that conversation. We will do that together with the Director of Fees, because he knows a lot more about this than I do when it comes to technical matters. You're gonna be fine. But I don't want to be blamed for not being willing to tell this story here. I'm really not okay with that. That's what I was gonna say, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u104	I'll take a look at Mrs. Leijten. She can finish her interruption. Then I give the floor to Mr Azarkan. Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u105	I'm sorry, but I'm going to read you a policy letter. That is often not something you can tie to, but this is about people who have been waiting five to six years for an assessment and who are in serious trouble.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u106	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u107	"The documents in the ongoing CAF-11 appeals cases have been re-examined by the Lands Attorney. Documents which qualify as relating to the case or which are provided on the basis of the generosity I have advocated in that regard have been inserted into the ongoing appeal proceedings." So they have not been considered on the substantive question of whether you want to continue with these procedures. All they did was check whether there were enough pieces and whether they were allowed generously. My question to the Secretary of State is: why is it not possible simply to look at the substance of these procedures in terms of whether you are going to continue with such a case? In seven cases no date is known yet. Pull those cases back. Just look at that one with that human size.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u108	Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u109	The question is clear, but I think we are really looking at this in a different way. Those things are ahead of us now. In a lot of people, the surcharge was unjustly stopped. We all agree on that. Whether people have objected or not, we have said that we are going to look at these matters again in all cases. One of the things on which you want to revisit a piece is, for example, whether there are any evidence. Did child care take place? Has there been an invoice? It has been said: now be more clear about what you need to have, so that those people can act. That criticism of the service is justified, because that has not happened. Then we ask the lawyer not to stand on the side of the service, but to stand on the side of the citizen. It is said that people have the idea that they are intimidated by the national attorney, but exactly the opposite is the intention, namely that they do not get the same judgment again in the same treatment. The lawyer looks together with the people who are there whether there are indeed pieces and whether the service is not too grumpy in establishing those pieces. That's help and not attack. If that is perceived differently, then we must do something about it, because that is really not our intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u110	This is exactly what I mentioned in my plenary contribution. The Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u111	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u112	Sorry, the Secretary of State says very well that he cares about this, that he thinks that the Tax Administration has judged too harshly, but then he comes up with an approach that is in stark contrast to that. How does the Secretary of State ensure that he does not judge things in such a way that people are much longer in uncertainty? Can he really talk about what the Tax Administration has done to these people, also in court, instead of checking whether a file is complete, with lawyers who just cost a few hundred euros?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u113	I'm about to say a little bit more about that. At the end of this speech, I would have liked to say a number of things about why I think we should do this, instead of explaining why the country's attorney was involved. Again, I think that was meant as help and not as an attack. That fresh legal look was supposed to be help, so the service wasn't stuck. But I think it is time to emphasise at least a few things, so that we do not always get questions about them and so that I, even in this debate, am not misunderstood about my intent and intention. Let me start with a commitment about talking to the parents involved. I have already indicated that I have always regretted the way it has been done for the parents and handled so far. I have tried to take a number of measures, including the compensation, the apology and the use of the national attorney. I'd like to help solve all the incomprehension that lives with those parents. That's why I'd also like to offer to have a conversation with the people affected in this CAF-11 case. The Director of Charges currently in place will see it as her first priority to ensure that it is done quickly. I am also curious to hear what situation these parents have been in and how I can prevent them from doing so in the future. So I will be in touch shortly to start this conversation quickly, including with the Director of Surcharges, so that we can eliminate any cases where we feel that we are misunderstand ing each other. I think that's important. Mr President, I see there is an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u114	That is always the case when you come up with a subject. I assume this is about the previous piece, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u115	I think I speak for several parliamentary groups when I say that it is right that the Secretary of State should do so, that he should show that willingness. But I'll still have to deal with the business that's still going on. Is the Secretary of State also talking to people who still have a case?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u116	I don't have a role in the end. For example, if there's a lawsuit, it's in court. What we have to do is explain. That is what we have done here in a letter of apology, but I would also like to make that more personal by saying: this is where we are and that is how we got there. I cannot, of course, make a legal commitment in the context of a lawsuit. I really shouldn't. I'm not supposed to interfere with that either. That's what we have other people in this world for. But I do want to explain how things come and how we go. There are misunderstandings. I'm really tasting a misunderstanding about the country's attorney's deployment. I really want to take that away, because that was meant exactly in a different way than it apparently felt. That really didn't go well. That's what we're gonna talk about. So we're gonna have that conversation, but I'm not trying to get involved in the legal dispute, because that's not what I'm really about at the end of the day.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u117	Mrs. Leijten, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u118	That wasn't my request either. I understand that from your position as Secretary of State, you can't say, "We're pulling this back, we're pulling it back." But I do understand from this that he talks with everyone, including people who are still directly opposed to the service. I think this is good. I think there is a lot of pain and experience there too. I hope that the Secretary of State will keep us informed about the discussion, but also about the possible outcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u119	Sure. Mr. Chairman. I am also in conversation with the National Ombudsman on this and other matters and with the Children's Ombudsman, with whom I have an appointment with the Director of Supplements on 24 April, in order to ensure that we do not leave any misunderstandings as to how we proceed with the matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u120	I'm glad we're having these conversations. I think it is very important, even more so than that we are speaking on behalf of these parents, that the Secretary of State himself, as I understood him, is speaking with these parents. I think that's very brave. Can we then hear back what the conclusion is of that conversation and perhaps also of the conversation with the Ombudsman and the Kinderombudsman?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u121	I certainly will not want to give a feedback of each individual call. I don't think that's the idea either. I guess we won't be surprised that there's a lot of anger there. I'll just accept that. We can do those conversations just fine. Then I'll tell the Chamber how that went. Again, I don't want to go into individual lawsuits. I can't do that with the Chamber either. We have to stay out of that. This really is a group of parents who have been affected by this and have taken far too long to feel that their right has been there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u122	I get that. I don't need to know who said what on an individual level. That's not the point. But I am glad that we will hear back what the lessons from that conversation are and from the discussions with the Children's Ombudsman and the Children's Ombudsman: do they think that it will then be resolved properly or do they think that additional steps are needed? I think that is very important, because they can find something about it. If we get that in a letter at the beginning of May, after those three talks have taken place, we have an idea whether the right steps have been taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u123	Both the Ombudsman and the Children's Ombudsman have completed that formal process. We have followed the recommendations they have made. This conversation is mainly an informal conversation to explore further how, for example, we can prevent this from happening again in the future. I would like to hear from them, for example, whether they know other things or if they have received other signals that something else is not going well. I really think it's important that we do something with that. An important commitment that I still wanted to make is that several Members asked for it to be about human standards. That is what this is all about all the time: what is the attention of the Tax Administration and other large public institutions to ensure that they do not act too legalisticly when they, as an implementing institution, have the law and the instruments on their side, while the results of this, as I have just said, can be poignant? Of course, this is something that has already been set up. That's what I'm gonna say. At the Tax Office we pay special attention to vulnerable groups, for example people in acute problems. These are, for example, people who have not yet paid a supplement while they do have to pay something. In these cases, we have special teams, such as the Stellateam, which can ensure that people who need immediate help get that help. There is also a category of persons who think they are entitled to something and who may object to the rejection of the service. The third vulnerable group that we recognize is those who may not have legal rights, as I said earlier, may well be, but by whom the outcome can nevertheless be perceived as poignant. For that first category we already have a team, but for that second and third category we need to see if we can do more. This applies not only to this case; we have had several cases in the past in which we continue to feel that the outcome is not quite what we expected from it. For example, there is very little legal basis for supplements. So one law gives more room for discretion than the other. I happen to know that in the case of surcharges there is very little legal space. Then you could see if you could do something with that. In another case, there may be other obstacles. Sometimes there may be obstacles that are felt, but when you really do your best you don't have to be there. Mr Van Weyenberg mentioned the Kafka teams at UWV. I have to say, I don't know him. I can see what they have to do right away. It's also important that they're there. So I'd like to promise to look into that further. In this respect, I would particularly like to join in a contract last year through a lengthy discussion between the various sg's of the implementing institutions. They have said that we really need to think about exploring more tailor-made services. Of course, that includes the Tax Administration and Fees. One aspect of this is that it has been shown that the scope of the legal provisions, as I have just said, may still need to be extended and that, of course, arbitrariness must be avoided. I really think it is very good that we are going to see what we can do with this exploration, including in the case of Supplements. I can even imagine asking the Ombudsman in the conversation I have with him if we are doing the right thing if we want this customised position to avoid the problems we have today. So I talked to them about that yesterday and this afternoon. I hope and believe that the Ombudsman also wants to think in the same direction. I think the reconnaissance is ready by the end of this year. I have gone into consultation with these people to see if we can get a clear picture of this for our area as well as possible. I really think that can help to prevent these distressing cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u124	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Westerveld. Thank you for your patience.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u125	It is very nice that the Secretary of State announces that there will be some improvement measures, but several groups and also my group have asked what the solutions are for these people, some of whom are still in a procedure. People e-mail us with stories that they've been miserable for years because of what happened. I'm asking the Secretary of State what the purpose of these talks is. Is that to hear what is going on in order to prevent this from happening in other cases in the future? Or is that to find a solution together with the doomed?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u126	Thank you. The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u127	I cannot, as Secretary of State with this group of people, find a solution. That's really not my job and role. Then it would go wrong, too. I do think I need to hear the people again. Again, I already have a pretty solid picture of this, and that doesn't look pretty from the feelings that live there. I'm fine with talking about that. Look, I really can't interfere with individual solutions. I can hear what the problem is. I can learn from that and see how we can prevent this from happening again with the service. It is precisely those commitments, which I took a little extra time for, that I really think are very important. I also realize that we have a very big service. No one will find it weird that mistakes are sometimes made. That's the way it is. I can never avoid that, no matter how hard I try. But in this case a lot of things really went wrong, and there was also really a bit of the idea that there was too hesitant "that was the word I was just looking for "progress" is being made. I'd like to avoid that. Of course, I'm really unhappy about it. At the same time, the balance in 2014, which Mrs Lodders, Mr Van Weyenberg and others mentioned earlier, was not pleasant; there was so much deception and fraud. We also know, because that's how these cases all started out, that you sometimes have facilitators who play a part in that. And then there was reason to say: hey, so we see a lot of processes around a facilitator. It doesn't just have to be at surcharges; it can happen to a lot of other things. As soon as this turns out, you can say: let's see what happens there. Soon I'll be talking about those surveillance lists, to tell you how we do it. That will continue to happen; once in a while we will go a little too hard and go back. We must avoid doing it as in 2014; immediately stop and then continue far too reluctantly. Of course, we are not making up for that, I say to Mr Omtzigt's question. Stories have also emerged today from people who have felt that they are not being heard properly for five years. I'm not gonna make up for that, not even in a conversation, but I can tell you one more time that I've been with them and since I've been here, I've been doing my best to make sure we have a place for these people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u128	Mrs. Westerveld, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u129	I understand that you can never make up for the suffering caused, but the Secretary of State can talk to those people, see what the best solutions are? Just people who are so disappointed in the government, who no longer trust the Tax Administration, who have gone on for years, who have run into all kinds of walls, who have often had to look for ways of getting them right, and who can't do anything about being cheated in other places, should regain confidence in the government. Then I find it very special that the Secretary of State says that he cannot propose individual solutions. That should happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u130	Yeah, but I can't do that. An inspector has been appointed to make an assessment of a tax duty. If the Secretary of State for Finance intervenes in individual cases, we are really not doing very well. Again, what can I do? In all these cases, we have been re-assessing whether we have missed things, whether we have not looked carefully, whether there were pieces that the Tax Administration should have considered. I can do all that; I can make sure that happens, but I'm not the inspector. That's not my responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u131	The Secretary of State continues his speech. I'm just wondering if you're going to start on the subject of surveillance lines. Did you finish the last block?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u132	I wanted to make another commitment that I also think is important before the whole time is misunderstood what we are talking about here. A number of members, as Mr Omtzigt and Mr Azarkan said, "Okay, here it is acknowledged that things have gone systematically wrong for large groups of parents. It was stopped first. Then there was a much too long procedure, with bad communication. How do we know that this is not the case in other cases?" I get that question. I think there's an important difference in this case, where it was about dealing with a facilitator, and a lot of other things we know. We have received a lot of signals here from people, such as parents, reception offices, the Chamber and the Council of State. Here we got a lot of signals that something was wrong. In the end, we acted on this; far too late, but that is what we are going to do. We don't have one in the other cases. That is one of the reasons why we have so far looked above all at the issues we know. Despite the fact that I have no direct reason to start, I think that a number of Members of Parliament, or perhaps the whole Chamber, are asking if I can say anything more about it. Actually, I wanted to offer to maybe have an audit done in those different CAF cases where the same pattern may occur. Again, one CAF case is about a very small case and the other is much bigger. We really need to look to see if there have been groups of parents at those CAFs who have undergone the same. Again, I don't have those signals yet. At the same time, I can't rule out them being there. My proposal is that, in the period during which this practice existed, from 2014 until its abolition in 2016, the Audit Service should also give the Empire a role to see if we can do something about it. If anything comes out, I'll see if we can give it the same impact on the parents as on CAF-11. I think and hope that we can take a step forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u133	I think it's a good thing we're looking at all these CAF cases, but I think the assignment needs to be much broader. We have seen that legal regulations were not applied to these parents. Is that what happened in other situations? I don't care if it's about parents or completely different situations. The operation of that CAF to quickly find fraud has really been way over the edge, with all the dramas that are still out there. That could also have happened in other CAF cases. In my view, the question should not therefore be whether other parents are disadvantaged, but whether other limits of the law have been exceeded.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u134	Thank you. The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u135	That's gonna make things a little bit harder. There's a lot of CAF cases, not just for Supplements, but for everything. We have just described a situation that we felt went too far on one side in retrospect. Something may have gone wrong somewhere in an individual case. Then there are appeals and objections. Then you can just get your ass straight. It happens all the time. By the way, many CAF cases also end in a conviction because it really turns out that things have gone wrong. Here I found the combination of things so poignant. You have to wait a long time if you haven't got something somewhere or, more importantly, once something is stopped instead of suspended. A long treatment, a lack of communication: look, then things add up. Then I really think something needs to happen. My proposal was therefore to start an investigation into the premium-related CAF cases from 2014-2016. I think Mr Omtzigt mentioned another CAF number somewhere. It could be. Maybe he's got those signals, but I don't have them yet. I didn't get them from outsiders either. But if your Chamber has the idea that it's different, let's hear it, so that we can at least get those things involved, because that's really, really, my intention. I have no intention other than to make sure that we see what we can do about it if we've gotten ahead of ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u136	Thank you. Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u137	I very much appreciate the fact that the National Audit Service, which is quite independent, will carry out an investigation into all childcare surcharge cases. If you have an email address, preferably directly from the Audit Service Empire, I will ask the people who have come forward to report there. Some people find it hard to do that with the IRS. They can then report to the Audit Service: can you find this case? In the investigation I would have liked to have taken very specific account of where the Tax Administration itself may not have complied with the rules, such as the General Administrative Law Act. Because the problem is not that the supplement is stopped once, that it is checked for a month, and that it is then turned on again. I know that's a pain in the ass for those parents, but they'll get over it. The problem is that for years you don't know what you're up to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u138	That's exactly what I just said. That stopping is not good, because that was not the way we wrote it down for ourselves, but then having to wait a long time makes it so poignant. Of course, there have been a lot of cases. For example, when it comes to AWB periods, I have also shared this with your Chamber. We do not meet the standard we want to achieve. So in those cases too, we should actually be quicker to react. Again, that's not good. We're gonna improve that, too, but here a whole series of things coming together makes it so poignant. And that's exactly why I'm saying, let's look at that, and let's look at the approach, at the Combination Teams Approach Facilitators, we know that it was really supervised so that we can get a picture of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u139	Mr Omtzigt, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u140	Then I assume that the Audit Service will have access to all available working instructions, instructions and the like given here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u141	Yes. We will open up the data and the Audit Service is so independent that he will then want to see everything. And of course we are willing to help the service, but I think he is very capable of doing most of the work himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u142	I welcome the Minister's commitment that the Audit Service will look into this. I was curious to see what this would do with the procedures that are now under way, with the objections and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u143	I'm just trying to point out the case. I think they are separate from that; or I misunderstand. The business that runs is business that runs. That may be before the court; that may be another way in which you are in agreement with each other on the question of which documents are involved. They will find their right. Here I am looking outside the CAF-11 cases that we are talking about today, to be able to answer a question that arose: are there any other potential cases where this occurs? I don't have that answer. Again, I don't have any of the signals I did with CAF-11, namely that it was very clear soon that things went wrong there. I don't have one in the other cases. Nevertheless, I think: let me take a step forward and see if there are similar situations in the other CAF cases. For there too, groups of parents may not have received the answer they were entitled to for a long time, at least for a trial. Then they've been in uncertainty for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u144	Mr Azarkan, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u145	Do I understand the state sectary correctly? Is he saying that it is not so much a matter of what we are talking about today, namely the improperly discontinued childcare allowances and countering etc.? Does that mean that these parents have to keep suing to get justice?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u146	To get their rights... Look, there has been a number of parents who actually go all the way back to the beginning of the year: "With them we think it has been unjustly stopped. That should have been suspended at the most. And they should have known sooner which pieces they should have had." Of course, it is still the case in this case for the law itself that if you want to get a supplement, you should be entitled to it. So that means there's actually been reception, there's actually been invoices and there haven't been any ghost invoices. In the end, you have to keep looking at that as a service. We have said that we want to be generous in the way we look at this burden of proof. We really don't want the allergiest. That is the commitment we have made before. But that doesn't take away the next thing. Someone can't say, "I'm reporting now; I don't have any proof, but I want to get my justice." I can't do that as Secretary of State. I am also responsible for the legal implementation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u147	Very briefly, Mr Azarkan, and then I give the floor to Mrs Lodders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u148	I just don't understand what the Secretary of State means by "ruthfully dealing with delivered documents." Look, something is backed up with a piece, with a copy, with a provision et cetera, or something isn't. Can the Minister explain that? 'Cause it looks like he's trying to meet the duped parents, but what does that look like?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u149	Thank you. It's the Secretary of State, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u150	I'm ahead of his appointment!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u151	There you go!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u152	But I keep repeating what I've been saying all along: I can't step into that fact. Eventually, a lieutenant makes a checkup. He must be wondering if he has any evidence. He will have a hard time looking at everything you discuss: "I don't think so" or "There's no stamp on it." That's the kind of thing he can say. But in this case we have said that we must ensure that we continue to look generously at the items being discussed. But at the end of the day, there has to be something under the question of whether the right to a supplement exists. Besides, I can never give you a clue or anything like that. That's the Inspector's right. That's what he has to do. And he should do it independently of what I think of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u153	I had also asked if there are several cases where this can play. I didn't get those signals myself, but I do welcome the Secretary of State's undertaking to have that investigated by the Audit Service Empire. This is also a broader approach, so it is also a question of supplement-related matters. Thank you for that commitment. Perhaps the Secretary of State could comment on the time limit within which the investigation could take place. It's not like I've been keeping him for the last week, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u154	No. And that is also difficult, because we are asking the Audit Service to take a serious look at this. This is not about a dozen pieces. When we go through these CAF cases, we're really talking about a lot of potential pieces that we're asking to look at. That won't be before the summer. I'm pretty sure when I look at the past. But let's just say there's got to be something in the fall so we can have a little more insight into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u155	Clear. The reason for that question is that I think it's good for expectation management. Again, I will not hold the Secretary of State to it, because I also realize that it is an external party that is being asked to do so. But perhaps we can agree that somewhere in the middle of autumn we will have a feedback on where it stands or on where it stands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u156	Then I'll get to the surveillance lists. I'd like to start by really taking away the image that there'd be a blacklist you'd just come up with. That is not the case, that has never been the case and will never be the case. It is true that the Tax Administration and also Supplements use monitoring lists. We have different degrees in that. You have a surveillance list where you have some kind of barrier at the front. This means, for example, that at the time that you have not made a correct report in the past several times in a row, your social security number.................................................................................................................................................................... Then you won't lose any rights, only you won't get an automatic award anymore. There was also a misunderstanding about whether this is automatic, because apparently there is an automatic link to such a social security number. It starts with an automatic selection, but then there is always a manual review. Always. In the end, someone who has seen someone on the list must then give that information to an independent committee, which ultimately determines whether the inspector's suspicion can be based on that previous selection. So I'm just trying to get rid of the feeling that you're being put on a list through some kind of kafka system without you knowing why. This is always done on the basis of previously seen risks, so that is really a risk selection, and then an inspector has to look at it. It will then have to submit it to the committee. If the committee then says that it is correct and that there is indeed reason to put someone on a monitoring list, then that can happen. If the monitoring list indicates "there is something; you do not get it automatically," a letter automatically goes to the person concerned, stating: we would like to see some more information before we approve it automatically. As soon as you submit that information, you get off that list right away. It's not like you're being haunted for a long time by the fact that you did it wrong. Once again, there is a certain risk selection of the list, and that is often not for nothing, so to speak, but well, that is a bit of the system of those lists. Then the question was how many people are on those lists. I believe that is what Mr Omtzigt asked. Maybe it was an earlier question. I forgot. So that list changes, because there are people coming in, who still have a hit somewhere, and people are going off again. So if we now look at the position of the position, the position was last measured around the beginning of February, I think we can see that it is about 7,000 people. Then you finally have a list called the "exclusion list." That's the worst possible list the service has. There are six people on it right now. Then you should think of people who, for example, make hundreds of supplements per day or do the same fees on different numbers. Those are the people who, after lengthy assessment, have been said: we are going to stop your entire citizen portal for a moment, because this cannot be done. They are also informed of this and they are told why it is happening. In general, you can see that these people get off that list quite quickly again because they say: well, we won't do that anymore; I was a little angry; I'll do better. That list is very rarely used. I believe that in total of all times, as far as we can see now, 26 people have ever been on that list. So that really is of a different order and really applies to other cases than when we look in the monitoring list at the barrier system, where there is no automatic allocation, but, again, without any loss of rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u157	Are you done with the block of surveillance lists?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u158	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u159	I shall now give the floor to Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u160	I have the impression that the way in which the monitoring lists are handled is different at the moment, let me say "pieces better" than around 2014, 2015. Because then all these people got letters saying they had to deliver pieces when they didn't know which pieces, and that they had to wait six months. That was all part of that surveillance list. Now that is just being done more neatly and people are also legally given the opportunity to object. So I am interested to know how many people were on that list around 2014, 2015 and have had to deal with measures that would prevent them from passing through the Tax Administration because of a kafkaesque situation, to speak with Mrs Leijten. Do we have a picture of that? Was that just CAF-11 or are there thousands of other people involved in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u161	I do not have the answer to exactly how many were on the list in 2014, 2015. I also don't know if we're, like, tracking by the hour or by the day at what time someone's on a list. I've indicated what the order of magnitude is now. I don't know about 2014, 2015, but I can ask. Maybe I'll have a little more insight into that in the second term. The other point that Mr Omtzigt makes is a point that we mentioned earlier. We believe, in fact, that the assessment of whether someone is finally getting off that list has taken far too long, especially in those CAF-11 cases. That was the story. It had to be judged whether or not it was right. In that period it just took too long. That's one of the things I really think they went wrong. That included this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u162	The problem is... I am trying to understand whether I should call on the Secretary of State not only to look at the CAF-11 cases, but also to look at other matters to find out if they have caused citizens problems. We can also ask the Secretary of State, as I say to him, to ask the Audit Service of the Empire and give them the partial question: look what the situation of the blacklist was, not only from CAF, but also from the blacklists. Do that in a research question: how many were involved and did things go wrong? Then we have a new moment to see if something went wrong there without going through all the CAF cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u163	I want to chew on exactly what that means. So I'd like to come back to that in a moment. I think what we just made up for the Audit Service is already quite a job. Once again, I think that we can also see whether there were similar cases in other cases where this was happening. It might be good to explain something. When you are in an objection procedure against an attack, you will of course be on a list. Because as a system, you can't just take something off. So when these people were in an objection procedure, they were also logically on such a list. And that took way too long after we thought it needed to be treated. I'm trying to look a little bit. The recognition that took far too long, so there is. And there was. If Mr Omtzigt is asking whether that was the case in the other cases, then I say: I have no signs of this being the case with this CAF-11 case. But that's exactly what I'm going to ask the Audit Service. Are there similar situations in those other CAF cases?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u164	I'd really like that last one. Are there similar situations in which people have been on a list for far too long, and when they were on that list, they were actually sent with a brat in the reeds? That's where the problem was. They didn't get clear what they had to do to get their case judged. Then it is not up to politicians but to others or to judge whether it was legitimate. And we have a feeling that that work instruction is right. So if you want to do that in that investigation, I would appreciate it very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u165	The Secretary of State has indicated that he will return to this in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u166	I am not allowed to talk about a black list, but there is a monitoring list, an exclusion list, but also an objection list. You can stand on that and you can be put on it. Actually, I have a question about that procedure. You are regarded as a risk, but there is always a human test and there is also a committee looking at it. Was that procedure there for CAF? Was this procedure also for the people who have been on it for far too long and who have felt lost when they were in contact with the Tax Administration?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u167	As far as my knowledge is concerned, that monitoring list was drawn up in the same way at that time. It's about people getting on a list because they were in an objection procedure. Of course, that was the case back then. I said: at the moment that you are long-term, in my opinion, too long in the process of objecting, someone remains on a list for too long. That is why I have some doubts about Mr Omtzigt's request. That never takes away the rights of those people, by the way. It can't be. Those rights will remain secure. That's to prevent you from objecting to a decision at the moment, for example, because you think it's wrong, you don't want the system to automatically start doing things off. So there's got to be a hold button somewhere. That's perfectly normal. I don't see Mrs. Leijten looking hard right now, but she does, doesn't she? There is a matter between a citizen and the service, with all kinds of attacks still open to unpaid taxes. Then we know it's someone we can expect a lot of money from. Then, of course, that also has an impact, because you have to make that bridge somewhere to any payouts on another file. So in the end you want to have a kind of barrier there, or in advance because we know how it went in the past or afterwards because for example there is still a lawsuit going on, which I think is very sensible, very good and not wrong. Only, this took way too long. This took way too long. That is the point I am saying: it must not happen again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u168	Mrs. Leijten, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u169	I was a little hard to look at, because I was actually getting more and more surprised during the answer. You disagree with a decision about child care allowance, and then, for example, you would not be able to use your gift allowance or get it back. I don't think that's how it works at all. And if it does work so that when you get on such an objection list, the service service actually closes because that's what those people have experienced, isn't it possible at all? You can certainly have a difference of opinion about a supplement or perhaps an inheritance and gift tax, but at the same time do well in income tax. Is it really working that, uh, the service just stops completely if you've made an objection to the service?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u170	I will also go into this in more detail in the second period. I cannot say exactly whether this is the case in Mrs Leijten's example. What if you're an entrepreneur and you're gonna have attacks in six years? Some you've taken off and some you haven't. Then it makes sense that if you're still in court, you're not automatically going to pay for the other attacks. I may be wrong. That could be good, because I'm not an expert on this. I'll check that in a moment, for the second term, to see if I can do better.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u171	Before I give the floor to Mr Azarkan, I would like to ask whether the Secretary of State can then complete his story completely. Let's see if there's any more questions. We also have a second term. So I want to build in a little bit more speed, but the subject is important, which is why I'm giving a little more opportunity for interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u172	Can the Secretary of State indicate how many of those people were wrongly on that watch list, how long they stood on it and what he's going to do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u173	You're gonna be on that surveillance list because you got the signal somewhere that something's not right. In the case we are talking about today, the signal was: you apparently did something to that host parent agency, where a facilitator role was expected. There's a signal going out: let's see if it's true in your case. That's the whole situation. We have always said that we have not done that properly. The fact that the signal was there is good and understandable, because there were all kinds of signs that there were risks involved. What didn't go well is that it was then stopped and endlessly trained. The fact that these people are on that list is not wrong from that point of view, because it was logical that the service said: I want to take a look. That after that all the actions were wrong, or at least a large part of them, I think we all agree on that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u174	It's not clear to me. At the beginning of his contribution, the Secretary of State indicated that he had apologized to the parents and also to the host parents' office. I therefore assume that this signal, which was received by the Tax Administration and on the basis of which the parents were marked on the monitoring list, was wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u175	No. I don't want to confuse things here. We have written an apology letter to all those who were still at the stage of appeal and objection, stating that the process we had followed was wrong. That is not to say that the letter of apology states that the outcome of the appeal and objection procedure always means that it is accepted. At the end of the day, I have nothing at my disposal but a service which is to be followed by the law. Once again, these excuses are really heartfelt, and are about the process, about the set-up and the whole situation. But those excuses aren't about the outcome of the appeals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u176	Mr Azarkan, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u177	If I understand correctly, the Secretary of State says: it happens that you have actually been wrongly spotted on the basis of information available at the time. They'll put you on a list. My question is: how many people in this group, because that's what we're talking about, are on that list? Apparently all of them. How long have they been on that list and exactly how much have they suffered from it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u178	I guess I'm not gonna be able to explain that over and over again after all. The moment you get on that list, it's based on a risk signal. In this case there were quite a few risk signals about the reception at the agency concerned, because there were in a very large number of cases abuses. Once again, the risk of getting a tattoo is perfectly normal. This is what this is about. The moment you can prove that it's wrong and that you have your papers in order and the service is doing it quickly, you're getting off that list again. Then nothing would have been wrong. You're never on the list wrongly, because you're on the list because there's a risk signal. In practice, the only thing is that, the moment you can prove that it was wrong, the service has to take you off that list right away. That has taken far too long here, and that is the point I am trying to make here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u179	Thank you. The Secretary of State continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u180	Let me turn to the question of compensation. They were also discussed. Mrs Westerveld asked: why did she choose to grant compensation? I think it is important to distinguish, as I have just done, between material compensation in the form of the statutory interest which is then recovered and intangible compensation for breach of the reasonable period of time. Those are the six-month periods. That material compensation was granted. This was, once again, a compensation for statutory interest, which was automatically granted to 109 parents in this case. However, given the shortcomings in the process, I have decided to grant intangible damages in CAF-11 cases for breach of the reasonable period of time proactively and generously, even if not requested. That is the compensation of €500 for every six months that the deadline has been exceeded. I have made this exception so far only for CAF-11 cases. Parents who have not applied for such treatment, but whose treatment lasted longer than two years, will therefore also receive this compensation. That's about 60. Then there was the question: are you going to grant compensation in other cases with too long handling and too long an objection and appeal? For this purpose, the sum of the immediate cessation, the slow handling and the poor information in the CAF-11 files are subject to special circumstances in which I would like to meet the parents. Parents who have a process in other cases that lasts longer than the reasonable period of time may also be entitled to compensation, but in that case they must ask for it themselves. That's, I think, the difference we share here. Mrs Westerveld and Mr Azarkan asked whether this €500 would not be far too little. I even believe that the word "tipping" was mentioned. I understand that thought, because people, of course, after years of experiencing that problem, have the idea: is that all I get? This €500 per six months is simply a matter of settled case law. That's, like, the legal way we can do that. It is therefore normally not pro-actively provided. We did, because I thought there were enough reasons in that CAF-11 to do so in this case. Then I'll come to the block of other questions, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u181	I'd like to ask the Secretary of State to finish his whole story first. Then we'll see if there's any questions left. If we don't, we're gonna walk a little out of time. Thank you for your understanding.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u182	I had another question from Mr Azarkan. He asked how things could go so wrong with the information. The course of events shows that the information management of Supplements was therefore not in order. It is not possible to find all documents, such as the working instructions, for example. The status of certain documents was also often difficult to identify. At this point I didn't like Supplements in control. This is why Supplements have been given the task of putting information management in order. I will be very much behind that, but that will not be resolved overnight from today to tomorrow. However, procedures are now being established for the establishment, storage, management and delivery of, for example, working instructions and other relevant documents. These procedures should also make it possible to provide documents to citizens in good time and also to be accountable to the Chamber. Mr Mulder and Mr Van Weyenberg asked a question which was actually going the other way. Is the Secretary of State still strict enough towards fraudsters? At least that's how I understood the question. Here too, I think, remains the balance sheet I have previously appointed. Of course, we would like to tackle anyone who does not have a proper entry or who, let me put it this way, is not willing and tries to take a walk with the rules. Those are real fraudsters, and we really want to continue to make full use of them. But at the same time we know that if we do that too hard, we'll bring people who don't deserve it. And again, that balance wasn't approved. I therefore hope that with the measures I have announced, we will be better able to do so. The fact that we did not approve of this balance was reflected in the letters I sent about it and the sincere apologies I made for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u183	Mr. Mulder, I think we've just agreed that the Secretary of State will answer all the questions that remain. Then you will have the opportunity to intervene if questions have not yet been answered. And there's also a second term. I know that you have been scarce with interruptions, and I will give you the floor immediately afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u184	Mr. Chairman. Then there is a question from Mr Omtzigt about the link between the demand parents and the host parents' office. The system of surcharges does not immediately make it clear. In the case of an application for child care allowance, parents must indicate which host parent they use for the care and not through which host parent agency they do so. In the letter of 15 May 2018, I informed the Chamber that this was not necessary immediately, because the fact that a host parent is registered already indicates that there is a relationship with the registered host parent agency. A host parent can therefore provide care through several host parents' offices. For this reason too, it is not easy to see which parent takes care through which host parent's office. To determine the study population, therefore, it was examined which host parents were members of the relevant host parents' office. Afterwards, it was examined which parents had given up the relevant host parent in their application to the child care allowance. I also mentioned this in the same letter that it is inevitable that demand parents have entered the research population which in one or more years have taken shelter through a host parent agency, which was not the same on the basis of which there was a risk. That's true. Then Mrs Westerveld also asked whether the Tax Administration could not see which question parents are indirectly at which host parents' office. You can only see with which host parent, not at which host parent's office, but only at which host parent. Wouldn't it be better to keep track of which question parents belong to which host parent agency? The answer to this is that we know that there is, of course, a link between the parent of demand and the host parent. This is in fact included in the National Register Childcare and Preschool Playrooms. However, host parents can also be affiliated with several agencies and only when they request the documents or when they are supplied with data from the agency. This can be done on a monthly or annual basis.... we see the link between the parent and the agency. Of course, that makes it complicated. Then there was also a question from Mrs Westerveld about ghost parents. Is that why people don't dare to go to the IRS anymore? Aren't we dealing with ghost parents because they come up with different numbers every time? I believe that was the question. Again, I went into more detail in that letter of 15 May 2018 on the numbers. As far as I know, the numbers I mentioned in that letter have not changed. It is, of course, possible for parents to submit a request for revision or an objection, which may alter the number of complaints and appeals. By the way, I would like to add that I am not aware that people would no longer want to come to the Tax Office for that reason, but I will leave that for a moment. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I am really close to asking Mr Van Weyenberg how to ensure that experiments or new methods do not affect people's working methods, as we have seen in the past. Well, the questioning on new cases is different these days, as I explained. Fortunately, the situation that we had, that they are stopped at once, cannot happen again. In addition, there is always a recall and the citizen is also called in in these situations. In doing so, we really hope to have created some other practice in relation to the practice that we had and which we have talked about so much about today. Mrs Westerveld's final question is about direct childcare funding. There was legislation on this once in preparation. That's stopped now. Wouldn't this have happened if that proposal had gone ahead? Of course, there's a very big timelapse in this. We are talking about cases from somewhere in 2014. This bill was later and it is very difficult to say whether the same cases had occurred for that reason, because even in that other case there is still a risk of abuse and fraud. In the end, in the letter from the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and myself, we discussed in detail the reasons why we believe that direct financing is not a workable plan or at least would not lead to an improvement on the situation we have now. I would like to make one further point, namely that Mr Van Weyenberg also had a question about this. Oh, no, Mr Van Weyenberg had no question about that, he supported the inclusion of these points in the ibo Supplements. That is indeed the point. He was right about that. Ibo Supplements is really a big and important piece in that respect. We are talking here today about childcare allowances, but we sometimes have similar problems with other allowances, and the IBO has been asked to pay attention to them. Mr. Chairman. That was my answer to the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u185	Thank you. I am looking at Mr Mulder. Sure, we had a deal. Then I will give the floor to Mrs Westerveld, who also stood up earlier, and then to Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u186	I'm surprised my question hasn't been answered. I asked a very clear question. What has the Secretary of State done towards the person responsible in this file? By the way, it's reported that there's a new Director of Supplements. Does this mean the old one got fired? Or did he make use of the departure plan? In other words, what has the Secretary of State done in concrete terms?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u187	As Mr Mulder knows, the most important thing is not to share with everyone here in the Chamber what I have said and not behind closed doors. I'm really not gonna do that. It is clear that I was not satisfied with the situation either. The fact that we stand where we stand actually says enough about that. I can say that the previous Director did not leave with the departure scheme at least.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u188	A number of questions were asked about the fee of €500 per six months. Mr Azarkan already calculated fairly accurately what it means per day. My question to the Secretary of State in the first place was whether he sees this as a large fee or also as a small allowance, a tip. We've all had e-mails from a lot of parents describing what this has meant for their lives. Some people got burned out, got fired or were depressed at home. It's done quite a bit!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u189	That's two points, I think. The generosity that has been shown was not in the amount, but in the fact that we asked for it and granted it unsolicited. Again, we've only done that so far at CAF-11. In all other cases where people feel, often rightly, not properly treated, they should ask for their own. But here's where we've moved on. That is the generosity. The level of the amount has just been agreed. There is firm case law on this. I can't do much about that. If a citizen has suffered demonstrable damage as a result of what has happened, of course he always has a course of action before the courts. If the judge agrees with him, he gets that right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u190	I find it hard for people to be right when they make big mistakes. We know that...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u191	I think I just indicated that in this case...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u192	Secretary of State, I wanted to have Mrs Westerveld speak out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u193	I know the Secretary of State said that we are generous in this case, but I think that should be standard policy. If mistakes are made from a public service, the public service itself should make up for them, rather than forcing people to go to court. That has not happened in this case, but it happens very often. Does the Secretary of State think we've reached all the people? 'Cause it's a lot to take that step. It's a lot to have to hire a lawyer and raise objections against the IRS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u194	Again, I have exhausted myself in trying to indicate what I think the human measure is. At the same time, I can only stand by the fact that we have a number of principles of law. At the moment when someone claims to have actually suffered immaterial damage through a government decision, he will always have to indicate some sort of demonstrable relationship with it. That causality must be demonstrated. There's no way the government's gonna say, "Well, okay, I'm gonna do that." Therefore, an agreement has been made on those intangible fees. That's the $500 you find low. I can imagine that, but at the same time the causality here is not proven, but it is granted anyway. But the moment someone finds that he has been treated unjustly, of course, the course of justice is always open. Then it is not strange that a certain causality should be demonstrated. And if there is, he or she is really entitled to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u195	Thank you. Finally, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u196	There's one more thing that's really bothering me: that host parents' office. The Minister... The Secretary of State indicates...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u197	You're doing well, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u198	I'm gonna get him promoted. The Secretary of State indicates that there were serious signs that 235 people have been having a very difficult time to this day for five years. They've been obstructed sometimes. They've been treated in a way the Secretary of State says they shouldn't have. I'm assuming those signals were serious. My question is: what sanction did that host parent agency get from the Tax Office?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u199	I need to think about that, what you mean by "sanctions." In any case, the service at the host parents' office apparently found a lot of cases, probably from host parents who worked for it, in which the papers were not in order, in which hours were declared that were not there and fake invoices were written. There were things on the other side. There was a lot going on. That hasn't been a light moment. At that moment, such a team decides: here seems to be a facilitator. This is not an individual case that raises questions, but here it seems that someone, an agency, is really busy organizing things. That suspicion exists and then we get into the case where we are. That didn't happen lightly. I don't have all the individual cases. Look at how many cases it's been shown that it didn't go well. It is not that the discussion we are having means that all 235 people will eventually be right. Again, it's not. The signals that were there were serious and that is why a signal has finally been sent that there was a risk that there was a facilitated approach and the Tax Administration would like to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u200	Thank you. Finally, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u201	I assume that the Secretary of State will be able to supplement what he describes in the second term, because I find it very striking. There are sensible people working at the IRS. I have experienced this many times myself. If you find that the decision to do this to 235 people is based on signals about abuses, clear signals, multiples, at a host parent's office, you also have an expensive duty to find out. I would therefore like to know from the Secretary of State how it has been determined, at what rate that has happened and what the conclusion has been with regard to this host parents' office and what the sanction has been if such abuses have been found there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u202	I shall return to that sanction in the second term. In response to the first part of Mr Azarkan's speech, I tried to point out that the fact that there were risk signals was robust and I will see if I can tell a little bit more about it in the second term will lead to a situation in which you will not automatically get your right. That can happen, but more things went wrong. Here the surcharge was not stopped for a while, but it was stopped and people had to apply for it again. Then the IRS took far too long. That is what we are talking about here, not the fact that there is a risk analysis. That is and will continue to be the wisest work of the service. This is about the whole period after that, about what happened next. That is unacceptable, and I apologized for it, and we have put in place measures to improve it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u203	This means that not all of a sudden a part of the Tax Administration doesn't know how to do their job. So here, too, the Tax Administration, this Club of Fees, has at some point thought: here something happens, here we see signals coming by that really can't, so we're going to hit 235 people. It is well known that in the Tax Office and then I would like to know from the Secretary of State how quickly this was determined, along which lines that happened and what eventually came out of that investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u204	The Secretary of State has indicated that he would like to return to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u205	I will certainly do so, but the observation that it has taken too long is precisely the essence of the accusation I have made here. That's the point. That's exactly what didn't go well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u206	Thank you. Mrs Leijten is going to close the first deadline with her last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u207	I asked the Secretary of State about cleaning up the ship if he just wanted to make everything he gave us confidentially available so that people could just see how it was evaluated and what happened there instead of just describing it in letters. I didn't see the pieces. I don't do that, look at those kinds of confidential documents made available to the public. I just want it to be public. Just when you say you're gonna draw a line, you're gonna learn from it and you're not gonna do it like that anymore, it's important for the test to be public.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u208	We have had an exchange of views with the Chamber on this too. These documents do not contain only personal data. They were given to me in confidence, and then it's not for me to just share it here. That's one. Secondly, there is, of course, information that is confidential because of the monitoring that is being carried out. I do not want to bring that information into the public debate either. So again, I don't want to keep that information from you. That is why I said that you can look at it confidentially. But I really cannot disclose all kinds of personal data and confidential data related to supervision.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u209	Thank you. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his detailed reply. I'll take a look at the Chamber to see if there's a need for a second term. I think that's the case. Many questions have already been answered, but a number of questions still need to be answered. I call Mr Omtzigt of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u210	Mr President, thank you. The Secretary of State agrees to have a conversation with the parents who want to have a conversation. I think that's very important. I like to hear his impression of the impact this has had on people. And I'd like to hear if he thinks these people are sufficiently compensated. I am also pleased that there is a commitment that the ADR will look at the other CAF projects, and I hope that the ADR will also look at the monitoring lists. I'm disappointed that I haven't heard the costs of the state attorney yet. I do not think the excuse that we do not hear the costs of the state attorney in current cases is valid. I have already found three examples from the past two years of cases where we have been told what the costs of the national attorney were. This applies first and foremost to the case versus Urgenda. I believe that case is still not over. Secondly, there is the matter of the expropriation of the Hedwigepolder. In 2015/2016 we were already told what the costs were, while that case was only in 2018 with the Council of State. And in a case about a certain prosecutor, the cases have also been reported. So I suppose the costs are just reported here and I will be spared the duty to submit a WOB request for a question that I have already asked in the form of a Parliamentary question. Mr. Chairman. I'm going to file a motion. I'm not filing a motion requesting that the case be resolved. It is clear that that solution needs to be found, and that request was also made clear to Parliament in the first term. The apology of the service and the remuneration are steps, but are not yet sufficient. I see that there are more cases where citizens do not have the political handle. Technically they could have done anything and objected, but informally they have withdrawn the swamp. I want a structural solution to that. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas legal protection of citizens is an important pillar of tax law;]] [[noting that in practice difficulties may sometimes arise in exploiting these legal opportunities, for example due to insufficient citizens' knowledge of the possibilities, unclear communication by the Tax Administration, and conflicting regulation;]] [[calls on the Government to submit to the Chamber within two months a proposal for an external investigation into ways of improving the practical legal protection of citizens in tax or surcharge cases,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31066-468]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u211	This is about tax cases, surcharge cases and also about the Tax Phone. And maybe it would be good, as in the US, to have a panel of experts, or some kind of ombudsman function that is within the Tax Office, or just outside. Such an instance could intervene. That's a bit in the direction of the Kafka proposal. But let an independent lawyer, and say an independent social counselor, take a fresh look at it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u212	I call Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u213	Mr. Chairman. I have three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that many people have wrongly discontinued childcare payments and that tens of thousands of euros have been recovered;]] [[Whereas an apology has been made for this but this case has not been resolved satisfactorily for all the victims;]] [[Whereas no-one will benefit from another years of legal strut;]] [[calls on the Government to instruct the Tax Administration to proactively approach these injured persons for a discussion with a view to reaching a solution;]] [[calls on the Government to include an independent party who can mediate if necessary,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Convention on the Rights of the Child states that decisions having an impact on the children must be made in a balance of interests;]] [[Whereas this Convention also shows that, in the event of a conflict between these interests, the best interests of the child should be placed first;]] [[calls on the Government to put the best interests of the child first in any decision to discontinue the childcare allowance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Westerveld, Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31066-469]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Westerveld and Mr Gijs van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31066-470]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u214	The final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas direct funding makes parents less vulnerable to public errors in childcare payments;]] [[Whereas as many as 45% of parents are often faced with ex post recovery by the Tax Administration;]] [[Whereas direct financing makes the system easier for parents and avoids debt;]] [[whereas the proposal for direct financing is at an advanced stage, but has been withdrawn following the opinion of the Council of State;]] [[calls on the Government to work on the bottlenecks identified by the Council of State and to inform the Chamber about solutions or insurmountableities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Westerveld and Mr Gijs van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31066-471]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u215	Mr. Chairman. I don't really know where to start. On the one hand, I am naturally pleased that the Secretary of State is having a conversation, but is that a conversation to solve something, or is that just a conversation to explain things? I get the impression that the latter is the case. Then what's in it for people? I have therefore co-signed the motion that GroenLinks has just tabled. There's gonna be an investigation into all these CAF cases, into that team that was just supposed to be cowboy-like, that used fast procedures and had hardly any work instructions, and after two years it was also said "we quit," because there might have been a lot of objections. Perhaps it has been found that it went beyond the limits of the law. We cannot control this, because we simply do not get all these self-evaluations. I hope that the mandate to the ADR, the Audit Service Empire, is so broad that it does come up. I also assume that this will be public reporting and that we can just talk about this and learn from it. For even though the spirit of time may have been so that we have ordered the Tax Administration to "take a closer look at the fraud side," we have never said: consider the citizen as a calculating enemy, as someone who always wants the best of the best. Of course there are people who use situations, but do you know where you can find them? You will find them especially among the most wealthy, large companies, who can obtain expensive tax advice. You don't usually find them here. What has been done to these people is indeed distressing. I agree with that conclusion, but I wonder whether there has not been much more that will continue to haunt us. Mr. Chairman. I'll file the next motion. I find it difficult because I just didn't have the answer, but I do, because there is no third term. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Secretary of State says that having an objection procedure affects other contact with the Tax Administration;]] [[Whereas it is undesirable for the service to be suspended in the event of an objection procedure;]] [[calls on the Government to always apply human standards in the course of an objection procedure and not to discontinue the provision of services to the taxpayer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31066-472]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u216	Mr. Chairman. This Chamber has been busier in the last year with all the errors and problems of the Tax Administration than with any other subject. What is striking in these debates is the fact that almost the entire Chamber then has the same criticism. But when it comes to action, the coalition doesn't give at home. So that means no research, no big project, nothing at all. There's gonna be a lot of questions, by the way. But it could make you cynical. Mr President, if I may, I have one more question for the Secretary of State. He just let us know that the previous Director of Supplements has left, without using the departure scheme. I'd really like to see that on paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u217	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Azarkan van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u218	Mr President, thank you. Thanks also to the Secretary of State I would almost say "Minister" for the answer. In a number of ways, it was disappointing. That's why I have a number of motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that 230 families have been in serious difficulties due to the conduct of the Supplements Section;]] [[Whereas these problems have been deliberately caused by the early and unsubstantiated cessation of childcare allowances, and subsequently by the failure to take a constructive approach to the re-examination of applications;]] [[now asks the government:]] [[proactively approach the victims;]] [[to provide full clarity and insight into their files;]] [[not only apologise, but also generous financial compensation;]] [[including legal and psychological assistance, in order to avoid lengthy legal proceedings;]] [[invites the Government to inform the Chamber of this matter within three months,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that 230 families were in serious difficulties due to the conduct of the Supplements Section;]] [[Whereas these problems have been deliberately caused by the early and unsubstantiated cessation of childcare allowances, and subsequently by the failure to take a constructive approach to the re-examination of applications;]] [[Whereas the public authorities themselves have caused damage to people who must be compensated;]] [[Calls on the Government to set up an independent committee of wise men, or to establish another form of arbitration, which may issue a binding ruling on the handling of the damage, in order to avoid lengthy procedures;]] [[invites the Government to inform the Chamber within three months,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31066-473]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31066-474]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u219	Then the final motion, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that 230 families were in serious difficulties due to the conduct of the Supplements Section;]] [[Whereas these problems have been deliberately caused by the early and unsubstantiated cessation of childcare allowances, and subsequently by the failure to take a constructive approach to the re-examination of applications;]] [[whereas an apology has been made, but not in the way in which the National Ombudsman advises it, and that particular attention is paid to its own learning effects and not to the consequences for the injured citizens;]] [[Whereas documents are still withheld and the Chamber is not always able to properly control the government;]] [[expresses her sadness about the course of events,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31066-475]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u220	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for answering the many questions, but certainly also for the way in which he has dealt with this issue. This issue has been going on for a long time. In the first period, we have considered in detail that it is a distressing situation for many people. I welcome the commitment, as far as I can talk about that understanding, that the Secretary of State has indicated that he is talking to the people. I would also have asked in the first period to include the agencies which are in trouble without fault. I'm assuming that these people can report for that, too, because it won't be a large amount. The second point I am pleased with is that I have already said something about it at the interrupting microphone. Many questions have been asked by several members on other so-called CAF matters. I think it is right that research is being carried out now, so that we have clarity about it, as far as I am concerned, once and for all. Mr. Chairman. I've been thinking about the communication. I have heard the Secretary of State say so much about this, and in particular about human standards, that he will look at it further. I hope that perhaps before the summer, or at least at an appropriate time, we will be able to think again about what exactly that will look like in the context of feedback. This concerns, in particular, communication. If people are in a particular situation and calling about it, they must be adequately helped. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u221	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Van Weyenberg, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u222	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank the Secretary of State for answering this question. This painful case shows how things can go wrong and how people can actually get stuck in a system of a government that just doesn't follow the rules here and then doesn't take the steps that should have been taken in the recovery. A number of important commitments made by the Secretary of State have already been recalled, such as talking to people who have been hurt and really checking whether there have been similar problems in the other research projects. It is wise to ensure that and look at the human measure in communication, even when it comes to discretionary space. I am glad that the idea of such a Kafka unit is included, so that people like that can always go somewhere; that someone picks up the phone and that they are spoken to, so that people know what to do. I have one more specific question. I realize the answer doesn't come in any way. So if that can be included in a letter, I'm fine with it. Do I understand what was told to me today about the course of a contract error with the child care allowance in which the parents are entitled to a supplement, but there is an error in the contract? Is it automatically recovered from parents for up to five years because of this contract error, when the parents were unaware of it, or perhaps raised it? Is that indeed a stand-alone policy? I understand that I am asking this to be a little too precise to get an answer on the basis of a specific answer, but I would like to have a written reply to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u223	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. The Secretary of State has indicated that he needs about 15 minutes to prepare himself for the questions and to give an appreciation of the motions submitted.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u224	A number of motions have been tabled and a number of questions put. I ask Members to take their place and to respond only to the motions they have tabled or to the questions they have put themselves, so that we do not repeat the debate. I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u225	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There are still a number of questions from the first term and there are also a number of motions. Let me start with the questions that are still open. Mr Omtzigt said: okay, we now have an insight into the number of people on the blacklist, but do we also have that about the period in which that happened, in 2014? I have already indicated that this list is dynamic and that we have not kept it on a daily basis. A perhaps much more important point, which I just pointed out, is that we would act contrary to the GDPR if we kept such pieces. The number of pieces we have is unknown. It would be contrary to that to give that price and to preserve it. There is an objection list, which contains the objection for that year, and the fee for which an objection is made. This is intended, for example, to stop recovery. That's what I'm talking about with the blacklist. Mr Azarkan asked how it all started. Why were there those signals? I have said a few times that I do not deal with all individual matters, but in the letter of the Chamber with piece number 31066................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The main summary is that the project started in 2013, after signals from the GGD. So it came first with these findings. The CAF-11 team investigated these signals. The findings of that investigation were grounds for further verification. At the beginning of 2014, verification visits were therefore carried out at around 20 host parents and at the host parents' office. It was found that the administration of the investigated host parents and the host parents' office was not correct in many respects, as the GGD had indicated. Then the investigation was continued. That was the reason for the whole thing. Again, the G.D.D. has mentioned that. There were sufficient signals to doubt the legality of that right to childcare allowance. That was the reason. I would like to inform the Chamber that the Supplements Division is responsible for determining the right to allowances and does not have the possibility to impose a penalty on a host parent agency directly. It has also been asked whether sanctions have eventually been imposed. That is up to the municipality, the GGD or in case of fraud or abuse to the Public Prosecutor's Office. That's not up to us. We did pass those signals, as far as I know. On the basis of the information we have, we do not see that a sanction has been imposed on the host parents' office by one of these authorities.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u226	A brief question from Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u227	I find that extremely strange and I ask how this can be done with those signals that were extremely serious, so serious that we are still talking about them regularly five years later, because we see that parents are suffering enormously from that fight with the government. Did the tax authorities consult with that host-parent agency on the basis of these signals? Is there also a sanction imposed by the Tax Department on that host parents' agency? Can't that exist anymore? Doesn't it get any more host parents? What has the Tax Administration done towards that host parenting agency based on these serious signals?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u228	So the answer is no, because as I just said, that is not up to the service. The GGD found the suspicion of fraud. That was then investigated by the department, as I just indicated. They stopped by the desks and the host parents. They saw that the administration was indeed out of order. Then they went to see if there was more going on, and then we got into the storyline that we had today. The imposition of a sanction is not up to us, but to those other authorities. You may find it strange that it didn't happen. I do not know the statements in those cases, but it is not the case that the Tax Office has imposed sanctions on this host parents' agency.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u229	Mr Azarkan, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u230	It is extremely remarkable, however, that it is found on the basis of signals from the GGD...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u231	I'm going to interrupt you for a moment, because you're repeating yourself. You must be something new...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u232	It's important, though. No, it's not new. Serious abuses are reported by the GDD. The IRS is going to check with this host parents' office. That's where it all starts. He notes that the administration is not in order. After that, the IRS isn't gonna do anything to this host parent's office.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u233	It's the same question. The Secretary of State has already responded. Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u234	In the letter we received in September, which was a response to the National Ombudsman's report No powerplay but fair play...................................................................................................................................................... I understand that the Secretary of State says that this is the reason, but the self-evaluation shows that when acting, the host parents' office was not seen as a facilitator.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u235	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u236	I'd like to have noticed that anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u237	I think that is an addition to Mr Azarkan's question. Finally, the Secretary of State on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u238	I understand that, if you do find anything, if there are any misunderstandings about the role of the facilitator, you will also check with the host parents in that investigation. So it was found, for example, that those hours of people were always exactly the same each other, whether it was Christmas, January 1st or January 2nd or whatever. That was just really not right. That's where the IRS... In the end, it's not for the host parents' office, it's for those people. And that's what the Tax Administration is going to make a final judgment about: is that right or isn't that right? So it's not up to us either, but to other agencies to look at: were the contracts that were not virtues perhaps facilitated from the host parents' office? It may be, but we don't know that. Again, that's not what the service is about. The service finally assesses the payment relationship: is that correct, are those hourly statements sufficient? He found out there that wasn't right. Good. I'm moving on, Mr. Chairman. Mr Omtzigt said: ho, ho, you say that apologies have been made to the host parents' office; that is completely new to me. I was surprised because I thought it did happen. At the beginning of 2018 there was indeed a conversation between the service and the host parents' office. This was reported in a letter dated 14 May 2018 to the National Ombudsman. It went to your room in a copy. It also stated that these excuses had been made to the host parents' office in matters. As indicated in order to remove that misunderstanding, I also apologized to the demand parents. There was a bit of a misunderstanding between me and Mrs Leijten about the monitoring list and what the consequences were for the funds and increases. I wasn't exactly at the right end. It is true that there is no link between surcharges and taxes. So they're separate from each other. The processing of supplements is limited to the supplements themselves; they have no effect on or influence on other means, such as income tax. That monitoring list therefore only works for surcharges and is not intermediate-crossing. But within surcharges the story I told was present. Thus, placing on a surveillance list for one of the surcharges does work on another, for example, of a rent supplement on a care supplement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u239	Okay, well, that's something I can't call a blacklist. But it is a signal that something is wrong with you. If you have made an objection and even ended up in court, could it be that your entire income tax will be added so that you can see if you might have a job and if you are presenting the correct data? Or is it really just about that application and accountability for that application itself?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u240	No. So it's not middle-crossing. So it really stays within the surcharges themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u241	Can I ask Mrs Leijten if this still has any significance for her motion on item No. 472?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u242	I'm gonna have to settle this for a little while, because you can also have some kind of childcare allowance, while you need a rent supplement. Do you have to let that interfere? But then I might have to rephrase the motion. I'll think about it. I'll let you know before we vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u243	Fine. Thank you very much, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u244	I don't know if it's gonna help, I hope it's gonna help for that thought process, but one of the reasons we chose to do that in the past is the following. Suppose someone doesn't agree with the fact that he doesn't get a supplement or a supplement too low, and he objects to it. If you would continue to pay the same surcharge, then at some point that mountain of debt is actually going to be very large. Once again, all these rights remain, but for this reason, the automatic allocation of these rights within Supplements will be put on hold for a while. It must not be stopped, we have talked about it, but it should be put on hold. That's how it works in Supplements. That is often also from the protection of the position, because when that money is gone, we get all kinds of other procedures that we do not want to get into. I hope this will help; maybe not, but I just wanted to mention this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u245	In my view, a very small question is needed to see what Mrs Leijten is going to do with her motion, so I will give her the opportunity to ask a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u246	Look, at the moment it's about child support, I can imagine. But if you're moving and you need a rent supplement, then that's another supplement, isn't it? So why does that have to do with each other? That's a little bit of a puzzle in my head. So I do not rule out the fact that I write the motion differently, hold it and ask for a response, but I also see possible problems with regard to the situation that it is linked to each other within Supplements.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u247	Yes, without being the expert on these awards, I can imagine the following. Between different fees exists... For example, what is my income level? If you have a disagreement about that, it can also affect different surcharges. So again, there's no link to what happens to your income tax or anything. It's totally unrelated. I just said that there might be a connection, but it's not; it's still in Supplements. However, there may of course be elements of the application for different supplements of interest. So it might be that if you don't have a right to something, but you get those other supplements, you get problems with recovery. Mr. Chairman. Then there is Mr Omtzig's question about the state attorney and his costs. I think I said in my letter this morning that I am prepared to have an investigation into the total amount actually spent in the CAF-11 cases so far. I just haven't had that one-two-three since writing the letter on the table. I think a week should be enough for me to make sure I'm not wrong about that. So for the total amount of CAF-11.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... So that's still coming to your room. In my view, then, I have Mr Van Weyenberg's question. It is indeed quite precise, about the recovery. I can say something about that now, but it is indeed quite complicated. Perhaps it would be wiser if I took a little bit more time for that in a written response and did not go into that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u248	That's nice. Mr Van Weyenberg also spoke about a written response.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u249	That's why, so I think that's a good idea. And there was one more question from Mrs Lodder about communication. Look, I think this is about the human size in particular. That's the central point. Suppose something happens, you still have to want to explain it. Of course, we have the Tax Phone for that. We have a first-line tax telephone and we also have a second line of the Tax Phone. So if there are really specific questions, you can go there. And at the same time it might be that you also want something else if only because sometimes you have to wait longer than I like. I said that in the research that these sg's are now going to do together, it is precisely to see if there is any tailor-made work possible, including in communication. You asked if you could do that in three months. Well, we can't, because that investigation will be completed by the end of the year. But I think it is an important point to take along, so we'll set a deadline for that too. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll get to the motions. I'm gonna do it from the top, so I'm gonna start with the motion of...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u250	There is another interruption by Mr Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u251	Yes, because the Secretary of State seems to have real problems answering the only question I have asked today about possible consequences in this drama dossier. That was the question: where did the previous director go? First of all, in passing, I got the answer that there's a new guy in there. Okay, that's right. Then I asked him, "Did the gentleman leave with a departure plan?"
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u252	Yeah, and the answer to that was no.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u253	Apparently, that is not the case. So the gentleman still works at the IRS. Is that true, is my question, and why was anyone punished?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u254	I've already indicated not to go through my personnel policy here and square public with everyone. I've indicated what I said. I let myself slip, perhaps that was a little too much of a statement that there is indeed a new director. That could have all kinds of reasons. You asked if the old warden left with a departure plan. My answer was 'no' and I repeat that. I do not wish to inform the Chamber in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u255	Mr Mulder, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u256	Yeah, I get that. It's an exact representation. I was just so happy, even for all the people who have been through this, that there is finally going to be action. That's why I asked what happened. It must be possible to describe what has happened there and how someone has finally been made responsible for all the mistakes. I don't understand why it's so hard to explain.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u257	The Secretary of State has clearly indicated that he is not going to do so, so I think it is a repeat of the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u258	We have to be very careful. We have had quite a spicy debate here today about all kinds of things that have gone wrong with the surcharges. We have described this completely, step by step, we have apologized for it, and we have submitted an improvement plan for it. We never want this again, and that's how it is. What is threatening to happen is that a kind of direct link to one figure, one person, one decision is made. Again, it was worse than that: it was a series of actions in succession on the wrong balance between tackling fraud and the human dimension. I explained everything about that. I really don't think we should get involved in the discussion about whether there was one Mr or Mrs, anyone, responsible for whatever and whether they were fired. I'm not gonna be a part of that. I have indicated that it is true that there is a new director and that the old one did not leave with a departure plan, because that is what you asked for. I really want to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u259	Anything new?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u260	Yes. I don't mean to ask about one person.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u261	What is your specific question to the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u262	My initial remark was that if this happens in the real world, there are always people...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u263	You said that, but what is your question now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u264	That I would find it only natural that there should be a description of what happened there, because it has been found at some point that things have gone wrong. I am not surprised at all that people are being called to account for this. Why shouldn't we know?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u265	The Secretary of State has actually responded to this twice, perhaps three times, so he is going to appreciate the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u266	Mr. Chairman. I shall begin with the first motion, the motion for a resolution, in part No. 468. It invites the government to submit a proposal to the Chamber within two months for an external investigation into ways of improving the practical legal protection of citizens in tax or supplement cases. The request in the motion is slightly different from what I promised earlier. I totally get what's behind it. It goes a little further, it concerns a wider scope than just an independent eye, as I said. However, given the state of affairs and the feeling that I myself and the Chamber have, I do understand. That is why I leave the opinion to the Chamber. Then I come to the motions of GroenLinks. The Westerveld motion c.s. in piece No. 469 is about the consideration that no one benefits from long rope pulling. The government is then asked to instruct the Tax Administration to proactively approach the injured for a conversation with the aim of finding a solution. I have tried to say it a few times: we have a lot of goals in that conversation, if only because we want to understand each other better, but the goal cannot be to achieve a financial solution. I have already indicated this a few times, but this motion is still asking for it. That's why I'm betraying her.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u267	The motion in part No. 469 advises you. I see Mr Omtzigt at the interrupting microphone, but his name is not under this motion, so the Secretary of State continues his speech with a response to the following motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u268	The motion in part No. 470 concerns the Convention on the Rights of the Child. I have dealt with this quite extensively earlier in the letter. The legal assessment of this is a different one. At the same time, I immediately recognised that the impact of this supplement, even if it is not aimed at the rights of the child but at the family income, does, of course, have an impact on the child. Mr Omtzigt made an example of this and, of course, I fully agree with him. That's not the point. However, this motion calls for the child's interest to be put first in any decision to discontinue the childcare allowance. The letter specifically stated that this is not the objective. I am well aware that it may eventually have an impact. Once again, in my previous assessment, I have addressed this extensively in writing. I have also indicated that this matter is more in the area of my colleagues from SZW. They're about this kind of thing. However, in view of the earlier and also my letter, I would nevertheless simply advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u269	I have, of course, also read that letter and I know what the purpose of childcare allowance is. At the same time, it has consequences for the well-being of a child if it is stopped. We in the Netherlands have signed the European Convention on the Rights of the Child. It states that conflicting interests must always have the best interests of the child. That just doesn't always happen. Supplements are stopped that do not see what it does to children in a family. So I ask in the motion to look into that. I know what the purpose of the supplement is, but I would ask you to look first and foremost at the best interests of the child when stopping or at other decisions on that supplement. I'm asking you to put that first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u270	The latter is therefore not what is intended. I've already explained that extensively. You can then ask again, but the answer remains the same. I'll never deny that that can affect you. Only, putting a child's right first is not what we do when determining the supplement. Nor is it mentioned as such in that Treaty. I've gone into that in detail. So I'm seriously dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u271	I see Mr Omtzigt standing. I think we've just agreed to ask questions about our own motions. Your motion received judgment, Chamber. If you have a question about that, that's fine. But we're not gonna ask all kinds of questions about other people's motions. Then we'll be here tonight at 9:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u272	I asked at the beginning of my speech to see if there was any need for financial compensation. I understood that this was not in the first answers and therefore took this motion as a reason for doing so. Could the Minister, sorry the Secretary of State Mr Azarkan has infected me after the conversation with the parents has taken place back to the Chamber or does he think that additional measures are necessary or not? That's what we'd like to hear from him? We want to know whether things have been handled properly, whether things are going better and whether something else may need to be done. Then we can look at the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u273	Of course, I end up using that conversation to take that into account in the further steps we are taking and in the elaboration of the steps we have already taken. But if the question is whether I can explain, for example, whether there is a need for high financial compensation? Again, that's really not up to me, that's up to the inspector. Nevertheless, we can see, in the process, in the treatment, how that went and whether we can learn anything from it. I hope and think that in that conversation I will, of course, get a further deepening of that. Then we can take it with us. But when it comes to financial compensation, I heard Mr Omtzigt say that first, I must say that that is really up to the inspector and to the judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u274	Mr Omtzigt, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u275	I expect that the letter, which I really expect to address within a month of that discussion, will address the question of whether or not the Secretary of State considers that these citizens have been adequately compensated.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u276	I will report in my letter about the conversation and what I learned from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u277	Then we'll proceed with the motion in part no. 471.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u278	Yeah, that's GroenLinks, too. Quite simply: I really want to dissuade it. The motion once again states that GroenLinks thinks it is a good idea to set up this direct funding. Mrs Westerveld also makes arguments for this. The cabinet has not chosen to continue with this system. The cabinet therefore advises against the motion. Then the motion to part No. 472 of Mr Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u279	You spoke about this in an interrupting debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u280	I was wondering if I had to respond to that. I think I've already told you the most about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u281	Perhaps it would be a good idea to indicate what your appreciation is, in case Mrs Leijten does not amend the motion. It's good to hear that one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u282	I found it difficult. The request to handle the human dimension, I totally understand. But I am a little less sure about extending the possibility of not having an automatic allocation during objection. I don't think that's wise, because it might unintentionally create a debt mountain. I thought, "I don't want to. But the passage about that human size, of course, I could really go along with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u283	I've been thinking about it and I have the feeling that it affects the way the service handles your requests when you get on a list like that. You have the objection list and the other lists. As we see in this case, it is often not clear why for people. Then it goes through letters and perhaps through procedures, in which the human dimension is not properly taken into account. So I'm considering keeping the operative part as it is now, asking the Secretary of State: look at these procedures. Perhaps there should be a phone call: "You have requested something automatically, unfortunately we cannot deal with it, you will stop by." You shouldn't do that through a letter that people might not understand. Sometimes it has to do with such a team that looks at it. So I think I'm just gonna let the motion be the operative part.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u284	In any case, it is important to hear from the Secretary of State the appreciation on the basis of the motion as it stands. Then we'll take a look at the modified motion and what the verdict is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u285	The words "the service... cannot be stopped" then form the core. If I interpret the motion in such a way that the service means that you simply have to keep communicating normally and make it clear what is going on, then I think it is important. If'service provision' means that we cannot, for example, proceed to automatic termination with regard to the other surcharges, but I assume that this is not the case, then I find it complicated. But I really think, now that I've heard this, that I'm interpreting the motion as I said: service provision and communication are important. Then I can certainly give this motion "judge chamber." Then the Azarkan motion in part No. 473. Mr Azarkan has included a number of considerations which were slightly different from what I said, although I think we mean the same thing. However, apart from that, the government is asked to offer generous financial compensation. Once again, I made that quite clear in the first term: I am not about that. In the first instance, we can grant them €500 generously without any requests. If there's more, for example because there's really been immaterial damage, it's not up to me, it's up to the judge. I just really don't want to go in there and that's why I'm not recommending this motion. For the Azarkan motion in part No. 474 is actually the case that this motion calls for this to be set up in a different way, rather than the right that citizens can obtain from a court, with an independent committee of wise men, and for arbitration to be set up which can make binding judgments. I really think that we have a better system for that in the Netherlands, namely: if you feel uncomfortable, you simply have a full right to justice. That seems to me to be a better way than that which this motion calls upon me to do. So that's why I have to dissuade them. The last motion is the Azarkan motion in part No. 475. I don't think he's asking me anything, so I won't respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u286	I have one final question, also in the context of the second-term answer given by the Secretary of State. The Secretary of State indicated that, on the basis of the GGD's finding, the host parents and the host parents were more closely visited and that cases had been found there. Now I've looked into my file. I have a letter dated 11 December 2014, in which the municipality states that the GD investigation has been carried out. It compliments the host parents' office on the quality that is being applied. Does the Minister know that letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u287	The Secretary of State doesn't know that letter. All I know is that there were signs in 2013, that there might have been abuses. The question was whether we could investigate it. We did.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u288	Thank you. Mrs Westerveld, what motion do you want to discuss?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u289	Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 469, which I submitted first, I would like to continue, because there will be another letter in which the Secretary of State gives feedback on his conversation. So I think it would be a good idea to wait for that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u290	At the request of Mrs Westerveld, I propose her motion (31066, No. 469). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u291	This is it for me, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-9.u292	That concludes this debate. Vote on the motions tabled will take place next Tuesday. I thank the Secretary of State, the Chamber, the people in the public gallery and the viewers at home.
