ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-6.u1	The next item is the debate on the budget for Education, Culture and Science (35300-VIII), the adoption of the budget statements of the Ministry of Education, Culture and Science. I would like to welcome the Minister for Education, Culture and Science and the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media to the Upper House.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-6.u2	I give the floor to Mrs Nanninga for her maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-6.u3	Dear Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen in the stands, colleagues. What a privilege to be here now and to speak in the Senate on the Education, Culture and Science portfolio on behalf of my party, Forum for Democracy. Although I certainly look forward to a sharp debate with all of you, it is also nice for us to be able to address the excellence and all of you continuously. I hope the pleasure is mutual. If not, I will also take this opportunity to present to you, in particular, the issues of education, care and attention that live with FvD and our supporters. Mr. Chairman. I haven't been through all the resumes of all the senators, but I dare say with caution that I may be the lowest educated resident of this house so far. I don't feel proud or embarrassed about that. It's what it is. It wouldn't have been my parents' fault. They sent me to the ultra-elitist Barlaeus Gymnasium in Amsterdam. When I got there, I started my own one-man form of experimental education. I learned what I liked and left the rest. My poor parents, here in the public gallery, took sleepless nights. They saw my refusal to do my homework neatly wringing hands. Daddy, Mom, it worked out, I think. As you can see, I didn't end up in the gutter at all. But I still don't have a gymnasium degree or any other paper. I allow myself another personal anecdote that may be given in a maiden speech about our Dutch education. My daughters are studying now, but they also visited several Amsterdam schools. Ever since their elementary school age, I have seen what is now widely known, partly thanks to the activism of FvD and the many, many reports of parents and students on social media: the ideological and cultural neglect on the one hand and indoctrination on the other hand that we do to our children through our education. My ex-husband and I deliberately chose an ethnically mixed primary school. We live in Amsterdam and that is a city where the majority of the inhabitants are immigrants. Whatever people think of that, you want to prepare your offspring optimally for the world in which it lives, don't you? It became a somewhat artistic neighborhood school, where my children had more than once clashes with Islamic-educated children who disdained or even disgusted responded to ham or sausage on the bread of my blood. Also treats they handed out on their birthdays were thrown away in a demonstration, because there would be pig in them, even though that was definitely not the case. After all, you don't put pork chops in an apple flap. The sweet ones, but on this cultural battle in the schoolyard completely unprepared youngsters, solved this by declaring the subject of faith taboo and demanding more tolerance, of my children well understood, not of the indoctrinated halal policemen, whom we can hardly blame, because in group 5 birds sing especially as their parents are begged. However, the public primary school organized an elfar. This was still in the times when social media and internet were emerging and we depended on the wretched disinformation of our public broadcasting and mainstream media. The NPO is another part of the OCW portfolio that we are really going to settle with each other about. That's what I'm noticing right now. We lived more on an island then. We did not know that this culture clash took place in other schools throughout the Netherlands. After all, the aforementioned newspapers and NPO are structurally ignoring such signals from society. When parents and students initially came out with such stories from the country's school classes via independent and social media, they were dismissed as xenophobic or even outright accused of lying. Only when the politically correct circles of Femke Halsema also reported sandwich sausage incidents at the ethnic neighborhood school she had initially placed her children on, was the story also adopted in the D66 education bastion teething for notification. After that, the weather was ignored. In the meantime, after years of disastrous austerity and unnecessary management, education had to be re-used as a brainwashing process of D66-oid cutting, on which later more. Of course, the somewhat clumsy schoolyard struggle against the sandwich sausage in itself is not the big problem in Dutch schools and universities. But I mention this trend, the initial denial of a cultural struggle in schools, conducted by both pupils and government, and the emergence of the Internet and independent media, as an example of a counter-movement, in order to shed some light on a trend which is hopeful to me. The hijacking of our education in order to indoctrinate our youth into obedient rootless cosmopolites who, on the basis of selective knowledge of facts, have to suffer from a deep climate and historical sense of guilt is now being seen and fought. Our party, Forum voor Democratie, receives numerous reports of steering, brainwashing, selective and even downright incorrect teaching and examination questions via the e-mail address schoolcontest@fvd.nl. The Facebook page Linkse indoctrination at my university and many, many other similar sites and pages are not only a catalogue of deeply see-through D66-nihilism that is forced into our youth, but are mainly a sign that people throughout the Netherlands see through these machinations at all levels of education and refuse to accept it any longer. That's going in the right direction, Mr. Chairman. Our education is not meant to teach generations of people what to think. Our education is there to inform people and then to deliver independent, empowered, autonomous citizens, who know how to form their own opinions well informed. If D66, VVD, PvdA and the rest of the cartelists are afraid of something, it is. Citizens who are insensitive to moral blackmail or oikophobic self-loathing for their own sake, even if they go against the politically properly permitted interests of click-size madness, multiculture and the EU. This does not mean that teachers and professors should not have their own views or opinions. Not at all. For the people in our education we have nothing but praise, especially in these times of scaling up, large financial deficits and a calving view of their profession. We need to take better care of our teachers. My grandfather was a French teacher at the HBS and my grandmother was a housewife. Only his salary allowed a family with four children to live in the now priceless Amsterdam district of Watergraafsmeer. In today's Amsterdam, schools have to close for a week because of the shortage of teachers and underpaid, overburdened teachers in the hours that their school may still be open, telling children that it is an absolute necessity to spend thousands of billions on crazy climate conditions. Perversely, when one considers that simply by looking at the facts that billions of money are not needed and that we could therefore spend all that money on, say, a cross street, education and housing of those same underpaid teachers who can no longer afford to pay for housing in the Randstad. Teachers aren't the problem. In primary and secondary education, they can be very neutral, provided they have the right curriculum. And our universities, the nursery rooms of ours, are mainly lacking in diversity. And not diversity as our minister means, the crying victim cult, in which equal opportunities are the starting point. The diversity constraint based on skin colour, gender, origin or orientation has even recently led to something as brutal as a women's quota for top jobs. Apparently there is plenty of time for symbolic politics and side issues, while the Malieveld is full of tortured teachers. No, Mr President, ideological and substantive diversity, that is what is lacking in our wo. In a country where serious research is being carried out into whether dogs also exhibit sexist behavior, I am not making this up where the social sciences in particular are overfixed on alleged abuses, inequalities and bizarre non-issues such as the existence of 73 genders, microaggressions in children's television programmes, the disproportionate attention to the black pages in the famous history of our beautiful country and, of course, the endless flow of publications that need to demonstrate the salvation of immigration, multiculture, diversity and safe spaces, we still have some success in terms of diversity in our thinking. Apart from the beta and technical studies, one often points to the small Leiden bastion where our group chairman Paul Cliteur and his colleagues form a Gallic village of free thinking in a more level playing field. A village that also needs security, because they do not share the smug status quo on jihadism, Islamism, philosophy of law and cultivated oppression. Moreover, a gross under-representation of that which still concerns a significant part of the Dutch daily. Representation, also such a neomarxist fashion word, is completely lost here. Wouldn't the Minister agree with me? This little Leiden faculty as a token, to use the permakwet jargon flung from the Americas, as the only symbolically appointed woman in the board roam and poor Mr.Cliteur as a scientific excusetruus. Mr. Chairman. As you will hear, I used my maiden speech on the budget of Education, Culture and Science to put the overall vision of FvD on our education and the cultural struggle that is taking place there into the ground. I say this without any dedain for the hard-working officials and staff who have worked on this budget, for which thanks are pointless. There is so scandalous amount of money going to Education, Culture and Science, but the money we spend on it is being used to subsidise oikophobia, feminist and Marxist propaganda and unnecessarily many administrators and managers. Our attention here in this chambre de réflexion shredded to discussions about the allocation of budgets on a budget that is only a fraction of the money we throw away to undermine ourselves, through climate desire and mass immigration, is like arguing about the color of life jackets on the Titanic, yellow or white. The mother ship, our knowledge and culture, and its transfer to our children, is going down. Let us dare to opt for vision in the field of education and, as I said, in relation to the NPO and our art and culture. It's for a fight for ideas. For taboo debates and great daring solutions, which, where necessary, break the status quo open. Mr President, thank you so much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-6.u4	Thank you, Mrs Nanninga. Congratulations on your maiden speech. Allow me to outline some of your background. You never had a real career plan, you told RTL Z. You worked in an ice cream store, a women's fashion shop, a veterinary practice and the Public Library of Amsterdam. In your spare time you moderated the forum of Amsterdam's broadcaster AT5. It was the first steps in an online world that soon became yours. You wrote for a website about parents and children and for De Jaap, which is now called TPO "The Post Online." In 2012 you started working at GeenStijl. You later became a publicist and columnist at WNL, PowNed, Nieuwe Revu and Veronica Magazine. Diversity avant la lettre, I'd say. Two years after you started with GeenStijl, you became co-owner and deputy editor of Yalta.nl, an online magazine that describes itself as a site with sharp comments and original reporting. "I didn't just want to stir on the Internet, but also participate in debates," you said about that step. Now looking back, you took the road that would eventually lead to politics, and to this Chamber. Thierry Baudet asked you to participate in the municipal elections in Amsterdam on behalf of the Forum for Democracy in 2017. You decided not to leave Amsterdam, which you at that time considered becoming a list-taker. Forum for Democracy came in March 2018 as a new group with three seats in the city council. You are the chairman of the political group in Amsterdam and you speak about finance, integration, radicalisation, art and culture and administrative renewal. A year later, you were elected as a list driver with preferred votes as a member of Provincial States in North Holland. On June 11, 2019 you will be sworn in as a member of the First Chamber of the States General. When someone asked you whether three political positions were not what much, you replied: "If all those senators have ten side jobs next to them, then this should work." Touché! We look forward to your further input. Once again, welcome. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments so that all other Members can congratulate you, and as President I would like to congratulate you first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-6.u5	I give the floor to Mr Ton van Kesteren.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-6.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, a warm welcome to the Ministers for Education; actually, colleagues. Mr. Chairman. After 40 years of working in education, I came to the following conclusion: teaching is teaching. However, practice shows that teachers are, in addition to teaching and providing knowledge transfer, also therapist, social worker and administrator. The balance between teaching and responsibility for an increasing number of care pupils in the classroom, with a considerable administrative burden, is not balanced. Today's teacher has to be a centipede, and that's why few teachers keep it up for the class. Mr. Chairman. The PVV has already indicated that the relationship between the primary process of education and teaching and the transfer of knowledge is not in balance with the overhead. From every euro that the Empire puts into education, only 25 euro cents goes to the primary process. In recent decades, billions of guilders and euros have mainly gone to overhead, to support from the so-called office culture, to administration and to reserves, asset management and real estate. The money mainly goes to the organization, while government policy focuses on better education. On paper, priority in education policy is the primary learning process, but in reality this priority appears to be almost more focused on the secondary issues. A career in education means that in the long term you no longer teach and stand in front of the classroom, but get a position that can be anything but teaching. A position outside the classroom is less exhausting and better facilitated, it has a higher status and a higher salary, and it is even better on your resume. This situation motivates many teachers to not be in front of the classroom anymore, but to aspire to another role in education. The demonstration of teachers for better education should therefore be seen above all as a protest against the fact that less and less money is being spent on teaching and knowledge transfer and that too much money is being spent on overhead. The Minister must be aware that the aim of improving education is not only a question of increasing funding for education, but much more of seeking more balance in the use of funds in the primary process and overhead respectively. An OECD report also confirms that, in addition to this task, Dutch teachers stand for larger classes and make more hours than their European colleagues. All this explains the enormous workload for teachers in Dutch education. The fact that the Dutch teacher is working more hours and is facing larger classes than European colleagues therefore finds an important cause in the fact that too many functions have been created outside the classroom. The government is unable to steer it towards an adequate group size, to smaller classes and to drastically and effectively reduce bureaucracy and overhead in education, because the school authorities, the schools, the institutions, are responsible for this. Mr. Chairman. I once started special education in a group of up to eight students. When I left special education after about ten years, I had 15 pupils in the classroom, while the number of scheduled colleagues with educational support tasks had never been so high. The increased workload for the class usually went hand in hand with an increase in free-roast colleagues with tasks outside the classroom. In addition to an intensive day in front of the class, you regularly took part in compulsory guidance programmes and courses to improve professional skills. All this led to a significant increase in absenteeism and even a definitive drop-out of experienced teachers and even of starting teachers, who left education disappointed after a year or a few years after their start. When I left education after more than 40 years, I did not see any improvement, but rather an erosion of the quality of education. The PVV Group therefore believes that the working conditions of the teacher in front of the classroom should be improved. Less work pressure and less stress could greatly reduce absenteeism. Inspections base their assessment of the quality of an educational institution too much on what is found in the file cabinet, on how an institution is profiling itself. However, unfortunately, the inspection does not always have an adequate view of how this actually works in practice. A teacher for the class who has also taken all kinds of courses and mentoring programmes, whether or not mandatory, is not directly a better teacher. No, it may be that a teacher without an impressive portfolio and less accounting qualities can become an excellent teacher, especially if that teacher is in front of a smaller group of students and is able to put more time and energy into the students. That gives that teacher much more satisfaction and pleasure in his work. Teachers should therefore not be charged on their administrative portfolio or on keeping the administration in order, but much more on their concrete actions and achievements for the classroom and on the interaction with their students. Mr. Chairman. The phenomenon of "appropriate education" is the result of the slimming down of special education in particular. Appropriate education is: back to square one. Appropriate education is: to regular education, say "you take those problem pupils with you." Appropriate education is: the number of levels in a class more than double. Appropriate education is: extra many problem pupils in regular education who would normally be referred to special education. Appropriate education is a huge challenge for teachers in mainstream education. And appropriate education is counterproductive for a minister who's trying to get more people in the classroom. The special education does have that expertise and specialists and it is therefore unwise to drop pupils with disabilities under the guise of "together to school" or through appropriate education in much too large classes of regular education. So, Minister, I ask through the chairman, as a starting point in the policy and funding of education: teaching, transfer of knowledge in small groups and the realization of smaller classes that do justice to the students who need extra guidance and attention. Limit the administrative burden and related stress on the class staff member. Make the work for the class and the salary especially for that teacher for the class, I say with emphasis, attractive again. Re-recognize the teachership. Tempted by such measures also the staff member with an educational competence outside the classroom to return to the classroom. I would like a response from the Minister to this general advice and proposal for an effective quality injection into education. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to draw your attention to the following point, namely the positive discrimination, if you like, of a female quota in higher education.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-6.u7	May I interrupt you for an interruption by Mrs. Vos?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-6.u8	I have listened with great interest to Mr Van Kesteren's speech. Do I now understand that the PVV Group also feels that there is not enough money in this education budget to pay teachers, teachers?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-6.u9	I believe, in particular, that the increase in wages should apply to the man or woman in the classroom. The salary increase now applies to all teachers. The teachers outside the classroom with all kinds of related tasks are also eligible. I think you can increase the status of the profession, the teacher for the class, by raising the salary. There has been a proliferation of people outside the group who also work in education and who have all kinds of supporting tasks that teachers often do not have much use for. You have to discourage that, so that people are willing to stand in front of the group again. If the classes are smaller and the working conditions are better, you get a whole different situation. Then you solve the teacher problem, too. But that's not just in more money. I'm sure I'll plead for a salary improvement for the man and the woman in front of the class.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-6.u10	So do I understand that the PVV thinks that the salaries for people for the class should be raised? As I understand it, the people who provide the work pressure relief are also included, people who are not necessarily in front of the classroom but are helping. Do you think that should be separated, that there should be a separate collective agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-6.u11	It's a misconception that people outside the classroom cause less workload. I've experienced in 40 years of education, and I started with six students in a group that the more people put in the office, the higher the workload. That started with the increase in the number of students in a class, because it had to come from the length or width. If a colleague was free-roasted for all kinds of other tasks, it meant that you yourself got a number of students in the classroom. Then you cannot speak of a reduction in the workload.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-6.u12	Mrs. Fox, for the third time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-6.u13	We'll come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-6.u14	Mr. Van Kesteren, continue your argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-6.u15	Positive discrimination is simply a vulgar form of proclamation rather than the right person on the right function, without regard to the person, whether male or female, or of any colour that is. And by the latter, I mean above all the political colour. The Minister wants to force a breakthrough in higher education for more women in the summit. Do this especially for more men in the base, with adequate measures, as I have already said in my speech. I would also like a response from the Minister. My last point of interest is also very important. It's about indoctrination in education. The previous speaker, whom I congratulate on her beautiful maiden speech, also mentioned this. After 40 years of education, I can say that this is true. Think of a committee that reviews patriotic history in a left-wing story and compulsory participation of students in a climate demonstration on the Malieveld. We saw children who are genuinely afraid of climate change. Inquiries revealed that these children had seen this on television. Also on TV the story was confirmed that they had heard from their teacher. "I use activism in my lessons," says a Dutch teacher who is a member of the Teachers For Climate. We also heard a rector of a school community say in an interview that he would not give a free pass for a demonstration against mass immigration, but for a demonstration against climate change. In education, climate insights from scientists such as Freeman Dyson, Piers Corbyn, climatologist Tim Ball and science journalist Marcel Crok are therefore taboo. And what about the mosque visit made compulsory by schools? The Turkish dictator Erdogan even calls mosques "barracks." He calls the domes "helmets" and the minarets "bajonets." Elementary students even learn to pray to Allah in those barracks. Sharia workshops are even given to the Vrije Universiteit. All this runs counter to our democratic values of equality, of respect, of freedom, which we also want to pass on through education to future generations. The number of Islamic schools, where students are indoctrinated with teaching content based on totalitarian ideology and which threaten and undermine our freedom and our Constitution, is still increasing. This is a worrying development that is not in the interests of our freedom and our democratic rule of law. In education and in the objective and pluralistic NPO, politically correct positions on mass immigration, Islam, EU, climate and sustainability, gender neutrality, and not to mention Black Piet, are embraced, and the views of the PVV on this. The Clintons and Obamas of this world are being haunted, while the Trumps and the Johnsons have recently been burned down. The predominantly left-wing education knows what is good for society. Jordan Peterson, a Christian-conservative psychologist and cultural critic at the University of Toronto, would speak at the Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam. The politically neutral professor there sent a manifesto to the university board to make it impossible for this man to speak. On the other hand, intolerant anti-black-and-black activists without any academic background were given speaking time and were not put in the way. Mr. Chairman. It seems that only left-wing activists with a totalitarian level of work and thought have the right to speak and are to a large extent involved in government policy. Islam propaganda and left-wing indoctrination go hand in hand against the traditional Christian civilization of the West. Anything that deviates from utopian links, the left-wing philosophy, the left-wing sense of life of the 1960s, of which I myself am a product, the left-wing judgment, the left-wing view of the world, has no right to speak and is preferably dismissed as racist, fascist, Islamophobic. Everything is racism. It makes you despondent from time to time. Schoolbooks have largely unsophisticated left-wing-oriented content. The only answer we hear from the political leaders is that the responsibility for this lies with the education authorities, the schools, the institutions. Whether it is simply denied or trivialized that there is indoctrination in education and the NPO at all. The PVV regularly pointed out to the Minister that the NPO did not comply with its legal tasks and highlighted indoctrination and discrimination in education. Because one continues to deny indoctrination, to look away from it or to continue to trivialize it, that indoctrination has been made clear. Is there any insight into how often such a thing happens and then with demonstrable facts? The black book by Arnold Karskens on the NOS-Journaal and the recently published report on indoctrination in the education of Culture under Fire confirm that there is indoctrination in public broadcasting and education. Indoctrination in education is only increasing and becoming more and more persistent. The shame is now over, because even in textbooks the black-and-white is clearly displayed. Teachers are there to transfer knowledge and skills and develop the talents of their students. The learning process in primary education and the role of the teacher should be politically and ideologically neutral. That is not the case at the moment. There is clearly political and ideological indoctrination. The student is informed very unilaterally. The PVV Group calls for serious attention from the government to this problem, to at least recognise the problem and not to look away from it or to trivialise it, in the interests of preserving our freedom and our democratic rule of law. Education is from a passively neutral institution in which young adults are trained to be free-thinking, choosing individuals, become an active multiform indoctrinating and compellingly imposed green-religious education. That is entirely in line with the climate and Islam dictatorship that is heading towards us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-6.u16	I hesitated for a moment whether or not I would respond. You apparently assume that everyone in front of the class is ultra-left and does nothing but pour out false information about the children, the students. But you yourself, you said, stood in front of the class for 40 years and you are a PVV man. What did you tell those kids over there? This can be done in Dutch education. So what exactly is this about?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-6.u17	It's very clear. A lot of teachers are afraid to express themselves, because if you stick your neck out and you do talk about the other side of the story during the lesson, you will be called to account. I have often experienced that I also explained and told the other side of a story. I often stopped a broadcast of News from nature or a Youth Journal episode and then I talked to the students about it. Then I was summoned to the board and accused of doing politics. So a lot of teachers keep their mouths shut for fear of dismissal, or get rid of them. They'll go along with that stream of political correctness. So that's what happened to me. You don't want to know what happened the moment I came out of the closet as PVV group chairman in Groningen. You know that, because you're from Groningen yourself. Even my wife was called to account by the board at school, saying, "Is that your husband?" Those are the situations that occur in education: don't have the guts to make a different sound. Most teachers in education therefore opt for security, for their income and for their families. They simply adhere strictly to what is politically correct and they color neatly within the lines. I didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-6.u18	I think Mr Van Kesteren is defending a statement and not facts. He makes a personal experience general, without justifying exactly what it is like. I'd be a little careful with that anyway. In my opinion, most teachers are very well able to show both sides of the truth to students. I don't know what you're saying. Worse still, the principal you mentioned is a good friend of mine. By the way, he is a member of the Labour Party...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-6.u19	Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-6.u20	...but he's an exceptionally nuanced man, also in this kind of business.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-6.u21	I just want to say one thing. I have other experience. I've been in front of the class for 40 years, and I've talked a lot about that. You can't blame me for not having a nuanced story. This is a fallout of 40 years of education and I've talked a lot about this with people. I'm still talking to a lot of teachers in front of the classroom. Take it from me that this is a very big problem, which is also shared. They think it is wonderful that I am here to share their experiences with these ministers. That's very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-6.u22	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-6.u23	Good. So we are heading towards a climate and Islam dictatorship, with cultural Marxism as an ideological basis, which is sold to the unsuspecting citizen as a new, perfect and sustainable multicultural society. A society that is increasingly emerging is that of increasingly uncritical, obedient, docile, dependent and unsuspecting indoctrinates, a society in which a small group of professional activists have a daily duty to assert themselves, a society in which independent and critical free thinkers are denounced and opposed in everything. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to ask the Minister what concrete measures and sanctions the government can take to ensure political neutrality in education. Is the government still passive in this respect, arguing that this is the responsibility of the education inspector or the Media Commissioner? I would like to have a somewhat broader and more generous answer than the answer I have already received here in the First Chamber over the past period. Because education isn't indoctrination. It's teaching. That is the responsibility of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-6.u24	Thank you, Mr. Van Kesteren. I call Mr Van Apeldoorn on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-6.u25	Mr. Chairman. I think that almost everyone, including in this house, will agree that education is extremely important. Even if you don't call yourself an educational party, you can fully share that belief. But it is important, of course, that you make the policy choices that also give this political priority. Last week the expression "to put your money where your mouth is" was used here. Although I do not welcome the ensnaring of this house, this is an adequate expression of what I mean here. Not words but deeds, also a beautiful Dutch expression. We often hear from the Education Party D66, on the list of speakers the great absentee in this debate, and also from the two ministers that it is not just about money and that we can not only improve the quality of our education with more money. No, I didn't. As someone who has worked in higher education for 19 years, I can confirm that. In fact, teachers, from primary school to university, sometimes even manage to deliver the same or even more high quality with less resources. But that doesn't mean there's no price for that. It is paid for, for example, in the form of an extremely increasing workload. One in four teachers in primary education faces a burn-out. Teachers at the university work an average of 25% overtime; all unpaid work. At some point the rack is out and the elastic snaps. And yes, the government can also improve our education without always having to translate into a higher budget. For example, you can try to reduce bureaucracy or administrative burdens in primary, secondary and higher education in a variety of ways. We could also free higher education from the perverse output financing model, which means that universities compete on student numbers, which in all respects does not benefit quality. The Minister also pays attention to this, and that is to be commended. There is recognition for the fact that higher education is far too focused on competition and not on cooperation. This is also reflected in the newly published Strategic Agenda. A small step has already been taken in reviewing funding, with the adjustment of the ratio between fixed and variable. But for further steps, we still have to wait and see what happens and what comes out of research to be completed by 2020. The question to the Minister is whether it is planning any further steps on this point within this cabinet period. For the time being, we are talking about studies and plans for the future, not the budget that is now before us. Mr. Chairman. The budget now before us is inadequate, because the major problems that exist today in education, from primary education to university, do indeed have to do with money in the first place. Better education requires more than just more money, but that is a necessary condition at the moment. We haven't invested enough in education for years in a row, and we've just been cutting back. Cutbacks in times of recession are extremely unwise economically.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-6.u26	I'm glad to hear you've converted. You also know, of course, that 1.7 billion has been released from education through the government agreement, and that is more than years and years before. That it is not enough, you are right, but I would like to ask you what is going on with the SP, because your electoral programme is still in operation. Have you read that when it comes to education and investment? Because there aren't any in the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-6.u27	Firstly, on behalf of the D66 Group, I would like to welcome Mr Pijlman to the debate. No, I don't think we've converted. For example, the SP has argued for smaller classes for years, even before the last election programme. We called that the "small class struggle," the struggle for smaller classes. That is, of course, something that an investment would have asked for. In that sense, we have not converted. I am not going to comment in detail on our latest election programme. It is indeed correct that the increase in salaries we are now advocating was not included in our last electoral programme. Maybe we should have. Given the need that exists and which has been going on for a few years since the last elections, it is important to recognise that more money is needed to tackle structural problems in a structural way. That's what the SP stands for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-6.u28	Then I am glad that I have called you a convert, because there was indeed nothing left to be found in your election programme. On the contrary. You also know, of course, as we all do, that, in addition to these enormous investments in education, the cabinet had to permanently eliminate 500 million from the previous cabinet. In short, a great deal has already happened. And yes, there has to be a lot more, but put everything in a fair perspective. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-6.u29	I would not call myself, nor my party, a convert in this matter. My party has always stood for great investment in education. Mr Pijlman is right that the previous cabinet, which we were not part of, has made enormous savings in education. Mr Pijlman is also right that this cabinet has taken a number of steps. More investment has been made, steps have been taken and things have improved, but that was all in relation to the enormous backlog that we had to deal with at the time this cabinet took office. I can see that, too. We are now dealing with the budget before us and with the question of whether it is sufficient. We can talk about what has already been done for a very long time. The Minister will be able to comment on this later. I wouldn't be surprised. We are concerned about whether this is enough to solve the problems that are now facing us. Our conclusion is clear in that regard. I do not want to call Mr Pijlman a convert, but I am glad to see that he is now saying that it is not enough and that more needs to be done. I would also like to invite the D66 Group to take part in the conclusion that more is needed and to ask what that means for this budget and for what needs to be done during this cabinet period.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-6.u30	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-6.u31	Cutbacks in times of recession are extremely unwise economically. Reducing education is doubly unwise, because you are cutting back on the future innovative power and productivity of our economy, not to mention the consequences for wider prosperity. After years of austerity and underinvestment, we are now in a situation where quality is under pressure in all areas of education. It is not for nothing that primary and secondary education has taken action with PO in Action and Teachers In Action, but also teachers and professors at the universities with WOinAction. Masters and Misses have already stopped several times and continue these actions. Especially in primary education, the water is on the lips of the teachers. Classes are sent home, schools only teach for four days, or close for a week or more. Isn't this just unacceptable in a rich country like the Netherlands? Does the Minister agree with me? While schools with pain in the heart have to send pupils home because of the shortage of teachers, the workload is only increasing further, for a salary that has been lagging behind in secondary education for many years. This pay gap has already been mentioned a great deal. But words will not close this gap. How does the Minister see this? Do we have to wait for another cabinet to do this? The shortage of teachers is particularly acute in special education, both primary and continuing. This affects the most vulnerable children. Here too, it is avenged that the valuation and working conditions are not yet equivalent to those of teachers in mainstream secondary education. Where, I ask the Minister, can I find in this budget that he takes these needs of the shortage of teachers seriously in regular and special education? And what can he promise us about what we'll be like when we face each other again in a year? Mr. Chairman. The rising working pressure, I have already mentioned, is also a major problem for universities, especially in combination with the hugely high percentage of flexible contracts. That workload combined with the constant uncertainty, not knowing whether you'll have a job in one or two years and therefore three strokes in the round, also makes more and more people in higher education suffer from it. The Minister also recognises that there is too much overtime at universities, that there are too many flexible contracts and that too many scientists spend too much time on research applications. But how could it have come to this? So how are we gonna fix this now? The workload in scientific education cannot be solved with a decreasing budget per student. So we're gonna need more money. Does the Minister recognize that? Mr. Chairman. In order to solve these major structural problems in education, it simply needs more money, more structural money. And that money is there. Even if you want to stick to the false idea that austerity was inevitable then, at least now we are in a completely different situation. 'Cause there's plenty of money. We have 10 billion left over from the budget this year. Borrowing money for the government isn't just free, no, you get money! But apart from the fact that a budget surplus is financial-economically stupid and short-sighted policies and we can better invest with a limited budget surplus in the future of our society, an investment that will pay itself double-handedly and counter-pay ourselves, we can also make much better choices without leaving the deficit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-6.u32	I would like to ask the speaker of the SP the following question. In recent decades, billions have been invested in education. There is now another question being put for more money. Do you agree with me that it can also be a question of more balance in expenditure, so that you label the money more for the teaching process as a primary process? Do you agree with me that there is a battle in terms of bureaucracy and overhead in education? Do you agree with me? Or do you say, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-6.u33	Thank you for this question, Mr. Van Kesteren. You don't have to leave one when you do the other. I very much agree that sometimes, or perhaps often, and I think in all areas of education, there is a imbalance between the primary process of education and the rest. Mr Van Kesteren mentioned it earlier in his own speech. So teachers spend too much time on administrative tasks. There are too many people around it in small offices, as we have just heard Mr Van Kesteren say, who do not necessarily always support education. By the way, a lot of those people in those offices do. They do very useful and necessary work. But we definitely need to look at that. I was just talking about improving the quality of education by reducing bureaucracy and administrative burdens. We also see this in the public sector as a whole, including in the care sector. This has also had our party's attention for years. This certainly applies to education. We absolutely have to do that. But that is without prejudice to the fact that, as far as we are concerned, we also need more money. For example, if you want to increase salaries, if you want to align salaries in primary education with those in secondary education, you will not only get there with the shift proposed by Mr Van Kesteren. If you do, it'll be insufficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-6.u34	Finally, would you not like to take up the challenge of changing the conditions in education and then see if there is any need for more money at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-6.u35	No, I don't want to, I say to Mr Van Kesteren. Now we're dealing with a big, screaming lack of teachers. We are now dealing with lecturers for the classroom who feel underappreciated and who rightly experience that they are underpaid for their heavy work, and given the enormous increase in workload, for example in comparison with their colleagues in secondary education. But we are also in favour of an overall increase in salaries for all teachers in primary and secondary education and also for the equalisation of those salaries. And that costs money.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-6.u36	Mr Van Kesteren, your last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-6.u37	The very last question. Do you not agree with me that people with educational qualifications outside the classroom should also be tempted to go back to class? That is not achieved by giving all teachers, including those outside the classroom with an educational competence, that salary too, because then nothing will change, and that huge shortage of teachers will still remain. The shortage of teachers is mainly related to people in education who have the ambition to get out of class as soon as possible, because that is a good career perspective. That's what I want you to tackle. Do you agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-6.u38	You should tackle the latter, but I don't think the answer should be that we're not going to raise those salaries. You have to make the teacher's profession more attractive by raising salaries. That's one way to end the deficit. In the short term, we need to take measures for this, but in the longer term, we need to make the profession more attractive. This includes a good package of working conditions. That is what we must invest in, and we must not wait any longer. Mr President, with your permission, I will continue my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-6.u39	Mr Gerbrandy has an interruption first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-6.u40	I can very well follow Mr Van Apeldoorn's speech. That lamentation might be justified, too. But can we not help our cabinet and ministers a little by giving some good examples? In that sense, may I ask your opinion on the Finnish model: shorter to school, higher education, more salary, much better results and smaller classes? Or do you not know the system?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-6.u41	Thank you, Mr Gerbrandy. I am not familiar with all the details of the Finnish model. Neither does Mr Gerbrandy himself, but as he is now putting it, that sounds attractive. I was just saying we should go to smaller classes. That is also something that Teachers In Action and PO are fighting for in action. The SP has fought for that for years, as I just recalled. If you have classes of up to 24 or 25 students who we don't have now, then the workload goes down, then the burdens associated with it go down and the quality of education goes up. And yes, you'll have to invest in that. Mr President, I shall continue my speech. I told you, we can make better choices. Choices for education and for more teachers rather than new submarines, for example. And even if you want those things so badly, there's plenty of money. Except you'll have to get it where you can get it. Because the money doesn't just mess with the plinths of the government, but also with the business community. The big business and the big banks are making huge profits again. The bosses of these companies also increase their salaries by many percentage points. The Quote 500 has already become richer, the number of millionaires and billionaires and their wealth has increased. We now have 176,000 millionaires in this country. Let's get the money where to get it. Why, for example, not further increase the bank's tax, as proposed by my party in the Lower House by amendment? Why not increase the high rate of the profit tax instead of reducing it, as the cabinet now wants to do by 2021? And speaking of opportunity inequality, why don't we finally put in that millionaire stake? Then you have two birds with one stone. All these measures would free up many billions. They do not all have to go to education. We also need more public investment elsewhere. Mr. Chairman. They're all choices and this cabinet, with an education party in the coalition, makes different choices. Choices at the expense of education. It's as simple as that. If everyone in this society, including the multinationals and the billionaires, were to pay for their fair share, we could simply make the necessary money for education budget-neutral. Mr. Chairman. We have a budget surplus, but we have a teacher deficit. We have overcrowded greenhouses in large business, but also overcrowded classes. We have a decreasing effective tax burden for large companies, but an increasing workload for teachers. So it's the wrong choices. I realize that I am not having the debate here with the Minister of Finance and that these ministers should do so with the agreed financial frameworks, but I do wonder how these ministers themselves look at them. Have they not even thought: well, is that tax reduction really necessary for large business, if we have such deficits in education, is it really necessary to pay off the public debt even further now that we even have negative interest rates and the needs of our portfolios are so high, and should we not also spend more money on education if we spend so much more on defence? Have they ever tried to redirect colleagues in the cabinet to this point and to make the cabinet opt more strongly for education? I would like a response from both ministers. Mr. Chairman. Of course, my group does not deny that steps have been taken, for example to reduce the shortage of teachers. I said that in the brief debate with Mr Pijlman. But the Minister also knows that, despite this, the shortage of teachers will continue to increase in the coming years. Also in the field of scientific education, the problems are becoming even more acute for the time being, for example with the quick and dirty job, even though the Minister has distanced himself from these words, on the basis of the Van Rijn report. So it does not make any sense, I say in advance to both ministers, to start naming all of what the government has already done. Similarly, there is little point in referring to those plans which are not yet given the announcement of a budgetary translation. For example, the minister of OCW has said that he agrees with the WOinactie that there should be a structural increase of 1 billion for scientific education. That's nice, very nice. There is talk of moving insight. But that one billion is not in this budget. Does the Minister himself therefore have any consequences for this ruling? Does it have any effect on the policy of this cabinet, or was it mainly pre-sorting for a next coalition in the context of profiling the elections? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. By the way, we had something here earlier in the Senate to celebrate when it came to higher education. My group was very pleased that, following massive action by students, the Minister's proposal to raise interest rates on student loans was withdrawn when it proved impossible to obtain a majority here. That is why our disappointment was that the 226 million that this cost was then made technically available as a cut in the education budget. That is an insult to all the students who have fought this so hard. Does the Minister agree with my group that this could have been otherwise? If so, why was this chosen? I hope that this minister is not entirely behind Mr Hoekstra's lead. Mr. Chairman. My group's point is that what is being done for the coming year and until the end of this cabinet period is clearly insufficient. The question to both ministers is therefore why it has not been chosen to do more, because the "choice in scarcity" argument, as the Prime Minister has just used again, is not convincing in this regard. When it comes to primary education, of course, the one-off 460 million is beautiful, but rightly so, the teachers did not let themselves go away with this sweetener and the actions continued. This is not because teachers like to strike or are not easily satisfied. Teachers prefer to stand in front of the classroom, do what they are trained to do, with heart and passion for their profession, with devotion to the children entrusted to them. But these teachers, as I have just said, often feel abandoned by politics, because their work is becoming less and less possible. Structural problems call for structural solutions. On the basis of what this newspaper called the "broddle agreement" of early November, the agreement in which the 460 million was promised, the NRC Handelsblad wrote in a main editorial comment that it was right that the teachers were still going to stop, because.. and I quote "successful primary and secondary education requires structural adjustment of funding, sufficient to allow it to respond to social developments, so that not a single pupil's power of thought and action remains unused'. It could have just been in D66's election program. Unfortunately, the reality with the policy of this coalition is a different one. Hopefully both ministers will be able to change my mind, I must of course add, but this hope is not great. This is without prejudice to the fact that, as always, I look forward to the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-6.u42	Thank you, Mr. Van Apeldoorn. I call Mr Vendrik, who will speak on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-6.u43	Thank you, Mr President. I am replacing my colleague, Mr Ganzevoort, who is unable to attend this afternoon. I congratulate Mrs Nanninga on her contribution, as well as the good practice here, no matter what is said. Mr. Chairman. In previous debates, I wished to the cabinet on behalf of my group that, in the near future too, on the occasion of millions of notes, the cabinet puts the perspective of broad prosperity at the centre and has a maximum view of all the transitions necessary for this. Wide prosperity is also ultimately, or perhaps even in the first place, about promoting life's happiness and the opportunities for people to develop. Then we are not only talking about education, but also, above all, about education. Good education is evident, not only for broad prosperity, but also to enable people in the harsh times in which we live today to experience, experience and contribute to the transitions needed in many areas, in terms of climate, in terms of a sustainable economy. The responsibility of the education system in this perspective is phenomenal. It concerns all of us and also my party. Mr. Chairman. Over the last ten years, previous Cabinets have explicitly chosen to recapture to a significant extent the rising deficits resulting from the financial and later the euro crisis in the public sector. It is not entirely illogical that today it is raining reports of all the shortages that have arisen in all kinds of public sector areas. This applies not only to education, but also to education. Money does not always make it happy and is not always a solution, but it is clear to my group that it is important to look closely at strengthening the structural financial position of education. That is also the call we have made several times to this cabinet. The signs, the signals, the shortcomings in education are well known. Ladies and gentlemen, as Mr Van Apeldoorn has just said, the latest OECD study on reading skills in education, staff shortages, today there was a message that the cabinet wants to do something towards the big cities of work. There's a constant stream of reports that there's something going on with education. In my group's view, this'something' also has something to do with money. Mr. Chairman. I am therefore going to look for money in this budget debate. Then it is really a step forward that these rulers with the field of education have in any case signed that covenant worth 460 million. My group has also appreciated this on previous occasions. I would like to ask both ministers whether either of them, to tell me whether I understand correctly that the first 300 million is an incidental addition to the second supplementary budget for 2019, which is now in the House of Representatives but which we are also getting here because of the amount of money that has already been spent in connection with the desired speed, for example, both directors have sent a letter to the Chamber saying that the remaining 160 million is, for a small part, part of this budget and another part is being pushed forward and is being brought forward in the spring note for the 2020 budget. Do I have the image so good, so at least we know where the 460 million came from and where it's going? That's a profit, and that's not a small beer, but it's not enough. On several occasions, my group has urged the cabinet to do its utmost to see where more and, above all, structural resources can be found, because most of the 460 million are not. Just to be safe, I'm gonna ask where the cabinet stands with this today. On previous occasions, we have understood, also in the General Political Reviews in this Chamber, that there is currently no multiannual scope in the succession of those 460 million in coming years. Is that still the case? Apparently there is still a small extra sent to the big cities, so that is possible. In view of a brief explanation for this debate, I would ask both ministers where this money comes from and what it is intended for. My attention was also drawn to the latest letter from the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy. Of course, the growth agenda should have been a wide-ranging agenda for prosperity, but I will try to sort it out with Mr Wiebes. On page 10 of this growth agenda, there is talk of foundational education. I read in Mr Wiebes' letter, which I assume is on behalf of the cabinet, that there will be a broad action plan for an ambitious improvement in education. That tastes like more. This letter of growth is linked to an initiative that the cabinet will shortly be sending to the Chamber, and that concerns the investment fund on which both the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Affairs and Minister Hoekstra are swaying. What does this mean? Can we indeed expect that a significant part of this investment fund will be made available to fundative education? Is that what I'm reading here or is that still unclear? I should like to clarify this further. But even with such an investment fund, the question is whether it is occasional money and whether it is therefore a one-off contribution for activities in the field of education, because otherwise you will get it out of the budget. I would like to hear what needs to be read behind this passage in last week's letter from the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-6.u44	Mr Vendrik is looking for more money, more structural money. Does he also have any ideas about structural changes or improvements in education that do not directly involve money?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-6.u45	I immediately acknowledge that I am not an educational specialist. I leave that to my colleague Ruard Ganzevoort. He could have answered Mr Van Kesteren's question better. I can imagine a lot of improvements in education. I have also heard Mr Van Kesteren's speech on overhead and management. That's an old discussion. I get that. I also understand the annoyance. It could also be done, but frankly I do not believe that this knowledge is derived from a previous job that I have had, which really makes a lot of money available in the classroom in a structural way. I don't believe that. I think that we should not overdo it in this respect, that the big money is in there now, and that it will all be much better if that money is in the classroom now. In my opinion, reality is not that simple.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-6.u46	I'd like to ask a question of conscience. What is the percentage that you really, really work in the primary teaching process, and the percentage that you work outside that primary process?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-6.u47	What I know about education is that about a quarter of the budget is spent on what one generally considers to be overhead. That's rough. About one percent or 15, 20..... that varies a bit per type of education... goes to material expenditure. This means that more than half, just over half, are available for staffing costs you incur to hire teachers and teachers and let them do their job.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-6.u48	If Mr Vendrik has listened carefully to my speech, he knows that I have talked about a quarter going to the primary process and the rest going to overhead and bureaucracy. That's different from what he's proposing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-6.u49	Sure. I draw from my memory from the investigation of the General Court of Auditors. He's already figured that out once. That's where these numbers come from.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-6.u50	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-6.u51	However, from that time on, I also remembered a compelling plea to the previous leaders of Education to improve transparency about these expenditures. There has also been a major project at the Ministry for a few years. After all, these questions should be much easier and simpler to answer. We have been carrying these questions with us for a number of years. Mr. Chairman. I would have stayed with that investment fund, and I'm asking what's going on. Is there music in there? Is that a one-time thing or a structural thing? Mr. Chairman. If all this does not help, I will come back to it in the second term, and if the cabinet in this composition does not see room to bring structural money to education again: I would like to hear confirmation from the rulers, then there is one option left open, namely that we as political parties, gathered here in the Senate, express the wish that after 2021 we will make the 460 million structural. Then politics sends out a strong signal in a majority. On this point, I am considering making a statement to my fellow Members. Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-6.u52	Thank you, Mr. Vendrik. Finally, Mrs Vos has the floor on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-6.u53	Thank you, Mr President. Congratulations on my behalf too to Mrs Nanninga for her maiden speech, despite the fact that, of course, I would have liked to have interrupted. But I'm sure you will. Mr. Chairman. Grandpa Vos was head teacher at primary school in the 1950s and 1960s. He had six children, and his wife, my dear grandmother, was a housewife. So Grandpa was the breadwinner. Grandpa Vos was a man of prestige in the village. The mayor, the reverend, the GP and the notary were a little bit more than he was, but it wasn't close. But in 1984 the Lower House gave the green light for the so-called HOS operation, Revision Education Salaries. Mr Van Kesteren also had to deal with this. At that time, the government felt this austerity was necessary because the economy was failing, and there was a teacher surplus. Since the HOS operation, teachers who started after 1985 earn significantly less than the comparable professions in the market sector and compared to teachers who started earlier. A side effect of the HOS operation was that education became less attractive to men. You couldn't support a wife and children on the salary like you used to. Especially in primary education, where salaries are lower than in secondary education, the number of male teachers fell considerably. There are other reasons for this, but given the fact that there are more men working in secondary education, this must have something to do with the difference in pay. The reputation of teachers at primary school on the status ladder has gone from place 42 to place 69. In 2007 former senator Alexander Rinnooy Kan released the advice LeerKracht. In that report, he warned that there was a shortage of teachers. There was a need to invest in teacher salaries and work pressure relief to make the profession teacher more attractive. Due to the crises that followed in 2008, too little has been done with this call. The zero line of the Rutte I cabinet for all officials was somewhat repaired in 2013 by the new cabinet for education, but we can see that Mr Rinnooy Kan also states that the policy has not been successful. Because where are we now? We have a worryingly large shortage of teachers, which means that 55,000 pupils in primary education in 2020 will not have a teacher for the class in a few weeks' time. If we don't do something, it'll be 240,000 kids by 2028. The painful thing is that students in vulnerable neighbourhoods in poor neighbourhoods are particularly hard hit. The inequality in opportunities is further increased by the lack of teachers. Because we see waiting lists for special education and we see that the most experienced teachers choose schools with children whose parents are relatively highly educated. We know that the problem is particularly acute in places where it is practically impossible for teachers to live: the big cities. In Amsterdam, for example, the next year more than 350 teachers will be wanted: 100 more than we expected in the past year. On average, two teachers per school shortage and it is also unevenly distributed among schools. The Minister has no idea which schools and children are most affected by the shortage. How could the inspection have been surprised by the five-day closure of sixteen schools in Amsterdam? It's very worrying. This year, for the first time, we saw strikes in education again. The Malieveld was full last March and tens of thousands of teachers stopped on 6 November. At the end of January the teachers put the work back down again, this time for two days. Last week's collective agreement repaired inflation, but did not close the pay gap and gave no prospects for improvement. The occasional amounts and measures announced by the government in connection with the deficit in the major cities are indeed important and welcome, but it is not enough. Because teachers don't teach casually. The shortage of teachers is not only a disaster for those thousands of children who today, tomorrow and after the Christmas holidays receive lessons from unauthorized or invaded workers, temporary workers, artists, or are sent home or distributed. It is also a disaster for our society. It's a disaster for all of us. The dramatic decline in reading scores in the PISA report means that a quarter of students cannot now participate in our society. Stichting Lezen en Schrijven has been collecting the stories of people who cannot fully participate because they cannot read, or can read, but cannot write. 2.5 million people in this society who can't participate. Can you imagine 2.5 million people, one in eight people in the Netherlands? You can't use the Internet, read a letter of formal notice or a letter about your children. You can't do this job as a low-lying one. As a representative of the people, you have to process and write huge amounts of text. 2.5 million people who, because of limited reading and writing skills, cannot be a representative of the people. I also think it is a disaster for democracy. When Germany experienced a similar decline in reading scores in 2000, the government allocated additional resources for better education and now Germany is back in the right line. We have also been warned, inter alia by the State of Education, that the shortage of teachers has a direct impact on equality of opportunity and quality. Why have we not identified these risks of inequality of opportunity, for example through the education inspection? Meanwhile, in the rich neighbourhoods, posters of private education for children whose parents can pay a lot of money for small classes and well-paid teachers. Rich parents understand that it costs money to teach your child well. But this is a bitter and cynical remark, especially when you consider that Article 23 (1) of the Constitution states that education is a constant concern for the government, so that everyone in the Netherlands gets the same opportunities and is treated equally, I say quite freely to Article 1. The PvdA Group is not saying that this cabinet is solely responsible for the crisis situation we are in, but we are saying that this cabinet can turn the tide with this budget; now, this year. It's possible. Minister Wiebes presented last week the contours of the investment fund for our future earning ability, Mr Vendrik already referred to it. And what does the government write? That good education pays off. "Research shows that early learning gains also work on the salary that the learner earns later in his or her life." I'm sure the government has that from economist Heckman, who demonstrated years ago that the more money you spend in young children, the better it is for society as a whole, as well as that it is of course very good for young children. What's very strange is that the government doesn't write about the human capital you need for that, but about digital devices. If we don't even have the people who can develop those digital tools, how?', children would say in street language, because that's all they'd learn: how? After all, they did not get civilized Dutch from a teacher. Let us be honest, for the time being, you learn from people, from teachers of flesh and blood who can teach individual students with time and dedication. Mr. Chairman. The government talks about the consequences of the shortage of teachers for our earning ability, but the simplest economist solution is not mentioned. Maarten Schinkel, economic columnist of the NRC Handelsblad, wrote that the tightness in education is not easy to solve in an economy that can sit on top of her. House prices and housing costs continue to rise, there is less labour potential left, and competition with other jobs in the labour market is growing. That is all true, but as an economist he says: everything has its price. Higher wages, especially in the cities, are the answer, not the percent. There is money, there is a bitter necessity, and there is no reason to wait, says Schinkel. Schinkel, Heckman, Marieke Blom, head economist of the ING bank, it's not the least economists who say that money in education is the best investment, but as long as we see education as a consumer spending, it continues to be cyclical with our children. Education must simply be seen as an investment, because we do not want to deny any child equal opportunities because of an accounting rule. Mr. Chairman. In particular, I have put forward an economic reasoning here. The heart cry of teachers and school directors we have heard in recent years seems to have not convinced the government yet. But listen above all to those who are in the classroom with love for the profession and sometimes with courage. Ensure a work pressure relief and better salaries so that the profession becomes attractive again. That is what they are asking not only for themselves, but for the children and their future, and also for our future. I have some questions for the government. Does the government agree with the same government's analysis that good education is crucial to our prosperity development? And if not, why not? Does the government agree with the PvdA Group that the pay gap between primary education and secondary education is one of the causes of the reduced popularity of primary education? And if not, why not? Does the government agree with the PvdA Group that more male teachers are needed in primary education? And if so, what is she going to do to interest more men in the profession? What is the government going to do to seduce new and old talent again for the professional teacher, now, this year, and in the long term? Is the government prepared to turn the tide now and pay a structural sum to increase teacher salaries in primary education? For example, half of the amount mentioned by the AOb as a disclaimer in the negotiated agreement of the collective agreement concluded last week. And if not, why doesn't the government want to pay that amount? Back to my grandfather. That time doesn't come back, but I would like the profession teacher at primary school to be considered as important again as at that time. The teachers in primary education bear the heavy and beautiful responsibility to give children the basis for their future, but also for our future. The PvdA Group very much hopes that this cabinet will share our analysis and that this cabinet will be the cabinet that will structurally solve the shortage of teachers. I also warmly welcome this milestone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-6.u54	Thank you, Mrs. Fox. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-6.u55	I would ask the education spokesmen to keep an eye on the bell tonight, in case the first term of the government starts a little earlier, for example around nine o'clock. I would therefore ask you to keep a close eye on the bell. I'm suspending the dinner break meeting until 7:00.
